           John Winters

The 88 Laws Of The Masculine Mindset
            OceanofPDF.com
                Copyright © 2018 by John Winters

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced,
  stored or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic,
  mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise
without written permission from the publisher. It is illegal to copy
this book, post it to a website, or distribute it by any other means
                         without permission.

 John Winters has no responsibility for the persistence or accuracy
of URLs for external or third-party Internet Websites referred to in
this publication and does not guarantee that any content on such
       Websites is, or will remain, accurate or appropriate.

                           First edition

         This book was professionally typeset on Reedsy
                  Find out more at reedsy.com

                         OceanofPDF.com
“Think of yourself as dead. You have
lived your life. Now, take what’s left
and live it properly.”
                    - Marcus Aurelius

           OceanofPDF.com
                    Contents


Introduction
1. Law 1 - Take Ownership Of Everything In Your Life
2. Law 2 - Create Your Own Reality and Make Yourself The
Center Of It.
3. Law 3 - Become The Hero Of Your Own Movie
4. Law 4 - Start Admiring Successful People
5. Law 5 - Being “Yourself” Is Not Enough
6. Law 6 - Don't Apologize For Who You Are
7. Law 7 - Don't Ask For Permission
8. Law 8 - Winning in Life is a Conscious Choice
9. Law 9 - Study Success
10. Law 10 - Stop Complaining
11. Law 11 - Enjoy the Valley More Than The Peak
12. Law 12 - Become Very Selfish
13. Law 13 - You Are Never On Vacation
14. Law 14 - Accept The Brutal Reality Of This Planet
15. Law 15 - Master Your Emotions
16. Law 16 - Master Communication
17. Law 17 - Sacrifice Short-term Gratification
18. Law 18 - Master Your Fitness and Health
19. Law 19 - Humor in the Face of Adversity
20. Law 20 - Time Is Your Greatest Commodity
21. Law 21 - Be Rational and Focused
22. Law 22 - Be Obsessed With Your Mission
23. Law 23 - Become Resourceful
24. Law 24 - You Are an Artist
25. Law 25 - Make Friends With Your Shadows
26. Law 26 - You Accept That The Universe Has A Natural
Order Of Yin and Yang
27. Law 27 - You Should Treat the Opinions Of Sheep With
Absolute Disdain
28. Law 28 - Make a Lot Of Money and Become Rich
29. Law 29 - Live By a Code
30. Law 30 - Become Water
31. Law 31 - Who Dares Wins
32. Law 32 - Become a Sheepdog
33. Law 33 - Meat Is The Foundation Of Your Diet
34. Law 34 - Confront Your Demons and Let Them Go
35. Law 35 - You Are Entitled To Nothing
36. Law 36 - Your Mind is Constantly Growing and
Expanding
37. Law 37 - Self Discipline Should Be The Foundation Of
Your Personal Culture
38. Law 38 - Constantly Evaluate Your Own Habits
39. Law 39 - Use Pain and Pleasure
40. Law 40 - It's Not One Thing, Its Everything
41. Law 41 - Learn Patience
42. Law 42 - You Exist In a World Beyond The Normal
World
43. Law 43 - You Have to Travel
44. Law 44 - The Way You Look Matters
45. Law 45 - Use Your Ego As A Weapon
46. Law 46 - If You Want Something You Have Never Had,
You Must Be Willing To Do Something You Have Never
Done
47. Law 47 - Why You Should Make The Climb Without
The Rope
48. Law 48 - Comfort Zones Are Your Enemy
49. Law 49 - Where Focus Goes Energy Flows
50. Law 50 - Become Excellent At Things You Hate
51. Law 51 - People Are Not Equal And Never Will Be
52. Law 52 - Suffering Is Your Teacher
53. Law 53 - Execute Every Day, Stop Overthinking
54. Law 54 - Become Unpredictable
55. Law 55 - Become Consistent
56. Law 56 - Become a Free Thinker
57. Law 57 - Think Like Socrates
58. Law 58 - Become a Deal Maker
59. Law 59 - Become a Man That Confronts His Inner
Bitch
60. Law 60 - Winning Is Important
61. Law 61 - Testosterone is Your Superpower
62. Law 62 - Unify Art and Science
63. Law 63 - The Small Things Define You
64. Law 64 - Always Have an Exit Strategy
65. Law 65 - You Become Better When Things Are Bad
66. Law 66 - Try Things That Scare You But Remember
About The Shadows
67. Law 67 - Actions Speak Louder Than Words
68. Law 68 - You Should be Guided by the 10% Elite
69. Law 69 - Don't Just Accept The Resistance
70. Law 70 - Be An Optimist That Thinks Negatively
71. Law 71 -Become Relentless
72. Law 72 - Influence The World
73. Law 73 - Build Momentum
74. Law 74 - Write Out Your Goals Every day
75. Law 75 - Keep It Simple
76. Law 76 - Visualize
77. Law 77 - Frame Reality In Your Favor
78. Law 78 - Never Quit
79. Law 79 - Don't Settle and Become Vulnerable
80. Law 80 - Live Free, Do and Say What You Want
81. Law 81 - Maintain Your Composure
82. Law 82 - Believe in Yourself
83. Law 83 - Go On the Offense
84. Law 84 - You Are a Business
85. Law 85 - Your Mindset Is Your Software You Load Up
Into Your Brain
86. Law 86 - Stop Wondering About Things, Find Out
87. Law 87 - Understand Cause and Effect
88. Law 88 - Choose To Be a Warrior
Conclusion
Thank You

                    OceanofPDF.com
                     Introduction


The 88 Laws of The Masculine Mindset is a Guidebook for any
man that wants to reach his full potential. Your mind is like a
computer, and your mindset is the software you load up into
your mind.

You are reading the 88 laws of the Masculine Mindset. If you
follow these laws, your life will improve. If you follow them
consistently, your life will transform.

If you are in a bad place right now then this book might be a
kick in the face. But it will pull you out of the shadows.

If you are in a good place right now then this book could be a
reminder to keep your game tight.

This book can also be used as a reminder and you can re-read
it every week to reload the most important mindset and
personal development principles back into your mind.

In a modern world of information overload, it’s sometimes
difficult for a man to find a condensed version of knowledge
that is easy to understand and implement.

It’s also hard to find the knowledge that has been proven to
work and knowledge that has the power to transform your
life. This book is about the most powerful laws or guidelines I
have found and use in my own life. I have used these laws to
totally transform all areas of my life.

One of the open secrets of life is to keep things simple. When
you keep things simple, it’s easier to implement and take
action. This book was designed with the idea of simplicity in
mind.

This book is not a normal book. It is different in the way it is
structured and the way you can read it. The Book has 88 laws
or ideas that are presented to you in a simple and
straightforward way.

Some chapters are short and some longer. You can open the
book at any law and read the law individually, or read the
whole book in one go. This is a practical guide to remind you
of the most powerful mindset guidelines to live a strong and
powerful life.

As men, we live in times where masculinity is challenged and
has been given a bad reputation. This has caused a lot of men
to feel confused and lost. This book is a framework to take
back your power and live like a masculine man in a modern
environment.

One of the biggest problems men face in this modern world
we live in is that our minds get influenced by so many
negative outside influences that we lose control of our own
mindsets.

We lose the power to take control of our lives and live life on
our own terms. This book will remind you how to take your
power back and start living on your own terms.

If you integrate one of these laws it will have a positive
impact on your life. If you implement a whole bunch of them
your life will start to change.If you implement all of them
your life will transform.

The key to getting the most out of this book is to read this
book often so that you can load these ideas into your mind.
Repetition is a powerful skill, and if you can force yourself to
keep reading these ideas regularly then you will fill your
subconscious mind with these ideas and you will start
implementing them in your life.

Implementation is very important. This is a problem with a
lot of self-development books and courses. People read the
book once or watch the video once. They then think, “nice
book” and move on to the next book. Just one problem, they
never implement any of the ideas in their lives. So they don’t
really benefit from the book at all.

Your mindset is the key to having success in all areas of your
life. It’s your responsibility to create and maintain this
mindset. Like anything in life, it will take work. You don’t just
go to the gym once and stop. You don’t just get one haircut
and stop. You don’t just eat healthy once and stay healthy.
There has to be consistency in your actions to get consistent
results.

Let’s Get Started!

                        OceanofPDF.com
                               1


         Law 1 - Take Ownership Of
           Everything In Your Life


Do you own your life? I mean do you really step up and take
full and complete ownership of everything that happens in
your life, the good and the bad?

Because guess what? Even if something is not your fault it’s
still your responsibility. As soon as you take responsibility for
every part of yourself you will elevate your life to the next
level.

Take control of your thoughts, your actions, and your
physical reality. When you make this shift one very important
thing happens. You are now in control, you now have the
power to change things.

What most people do is shift the blame and the problems in
their lives to outside events and other people. When bad
things happen it’s never them, it’s always something or
someone else.

It is tempting to blame outside influences for your own
problems and challenges. But the truth is that even if
something wasn’t your fault, it’s still your responsibility.

For many people, this is a psychological block, they can’t stop
blaming outside events and other people for the problems in
their lives. So they never change and never live the life they
want to live because they don’t have ownership of their lives.

This is the key to this law, if you don’t take ownership then
you have unconsciously given full control of your life to other
people and outside events. With this victim mindset, you have
no power and influence in your own life.

If you want to control your own life then take ownership now.
Take the power back and get behind the steering wheel of
your own life. Take Control.

People who really internalize this law of ownership see their
lives change in ways they never thought possible.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                               2


 Law 2 - Create Your Own Reality and
   Make Yourself The Center Of It.


Every day place yourself in the center of the universe. This is a
complicated concept to understand in the beginning.
However, it’s a very powerful tool once you master this idea.

Go sit in a quiet room or any other space where you can be
alone. Close your eyes and see yourself as the center of the
universe. Then visualize your ideal life.

Meditate on this idea and control your thoughts to become
inline with this ideal vision of yourself. Breath Deeply and
slowly.

Make your model of reality as powerful as possible and make
it the center of your life.

It’s important for us to keep this vision of ourselves as active
in our minds as possible. It’s a must to keep visualizing your
ideal self and who you want to become.

Carry some reminders with you everywhere you go. This
could be a digital vision or goal board of your ideal life. Make
a document with pictures of people you admire, places where
you want to live and the cars you want to drive. Put this vision
board on your phone and look at it as much as you can every
day to make this vision of yourself as clear as possible.

If you keep on visualizing this idea of your ideal self then your
subconscious mind will push you to turn it into reality with all
the actions you take every day.

                        OceanofPDF.com
                              3


   Law 3 - Become The Hero Of Your
              Own Movie


Another exercise that is very powerful is to see yourself as the
hero of your own movie. You are the main character in the
story of your life. You are the one going through ups and
downs of life, but in the end, you come out on top, you are
victorious.

This story is found very deep in the human psyche. All the
great religions of the world have the same type of story. The
guy that comes from humble beginnings, with lots of
potential and the power to change the world. He is the hero.

Unfortunately, this hero has to overcome many obstacles in
his life. He is faced with many obstacles and enemies trying to
stop him. Sometimes it looks like the hero is not going to
make it, but when all is lost and seems like the hero is about
to die, he makes a return. He picks himself up or make the
great escape and saves the world.

We see this movie being played out in Hollywood every time
we watch a movie with a hero in it. Think about movies like
Batman or Rocky. The story is different but the underlying
theme is the same.

You must see yourself as this hero going through the same
tests and tribulations but eventually, you reach the top of the
mountain. See yourself as someone that overcome any
obstacle and make things happen. See yourself as someone
that can’t be stopped and someone that always wins in the
end.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                               4


    Law 4 - Start Admiring Successful
                  People


There is a mental disease in society right now. It’s a nasty way
of thinking. Successful people and rich people get looked
down upon.

People think they cheated the system or they didn’t play fair
to get so rich or successful. It’s all a lie. Most of those people
deserved what they got. They worked their asses off and
sacrificed to get what they wanted. They made excellence an
absolute priority in their lives.

Successful people set the bar so high that most people just
don’t understand how these people became so successful.
High performers in any field should be respected.

The people that judge successful people have hate in their
hearts. They don’t admire, they look down. They want these
people to come down to their level so they can feel better
about themselves.

Don’t ever do that. It’s disgusting and it’s the way losers walk
through the world. They want us all to be equal. Equally
disgusting and hate-filled. Never go to that space of darkness.
Walk into the light and admire excellence, beauty and hard
work.

You must find inspiration in what these entrepreneurs,
doctors, scientists, engineers, Navy Seals, Green Berets,
artists and others have achieved. What they do is not easy and
it should not be. They should be respected and admired. They
should be looked up to.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              5


      Law 5 - Being “Yourself” Is Not
                 Enough

  “Our brains are not designed to make us happy, that is your
  job”- Anthony Robbins

We have evolved over millions of years to survive. That
survival part did not include our happiness. It did not include
how to reach goals and how to overcome obstacles that
ultimately leads to happiness.

Humans are flawed. We are all limited in some way. We all
have strengths and weaknesses. We also have strengths and
weaknesses that we are not even aware of that is existing
inside us.

By choosing to develop yourself and constantly better
yourself you will become the ultimate version of yourself.You
will learn how to overcome many of the obstacles that life
puts in your way.

So be very cautious when someone tells you, “just be
yourself”. That should be your signal to do the opposite. If
being ourselves was enough then we wouldn’t have any
problems.

Remember that you are not really “yourself”.You have been
molded and influenced by so many external influences that
you are not yourself.

You can now make the choice to be whoever you want to be
and then go out there and become that ideal self. This is what
true creativity is all about.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             6


Law 6 - Don't Apologize For Who You
                Are


Don’t apologize for who you are. If you are apologizing for
who you are, then stop. You have no reason to apologize. It’s
weak and is making you look needy.

Some people are so needy they start apologizing when they
enter a room. They basically start apologizing for who they
are before they have even done anything.

Don’t apologize for who you are. If you are not happy about
something in yourself then change it. But don’t apologize for
the actions you take on this planet to survive.

Sometimes you are going to step on some toes. You are going
to do things that some people won’t like. That is their
problem, not yours.

Most rules have an exception and this is one of them. Don’t
apologize except for friends and loved ones. But even then,
make very sure you were wrong before you do apologize.

                      OceanofPDF.com
                              7


    Law 7 - Don't Ask For Permission


Don’t ask for permission, just do what you want to do. You
don’t need permission from other people to do what you want
in life.

I see it all the time, guys who know what they want to do but
they feel they have to ask a few others if it’s OK. They want to
ask their friends and family if it will be OK.

Firstly it’s none of their business and secondly, most of those
people will probably say it’s a bad idea. If what you are doing
is stepping on some toes then fine. If you offend someone
then that is their problem.

Most people get uncomfortable when people around them
start making moves that are disrupting the current situation.
So they will probably tell you whatever you are doing is a bad
idea. So don’t ask them just do whatever it is you want to do.
You don’t need anybody’s permission.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              8


Law 8 - Winning in Life is a Conscious
              Choice


Winning in Life is a Conscious Choice. Find any excuse to win.
Whatever happens, keep going.

You will be punched in the mouth repeatedly on your road to
success. Things will happen to you that you don’t expect.
Things will go wrong in your business and personal life and
you will feel like you are in a corner.

The worst thing is that your own mind will sometimes try to
talk you out of moving forward. You will be tempted to give
up and try something else. When things get hard the easy way
out will be tempting.

It will sound easy to just open that back door and leave this
harsh environment of entrepreneurship, or anything else
hard in your life. This is where the fakers and the real players
get separated. The winners will stay behind while the others
decide to take the easy way out.

The easy way, for example, is going to that party or taking
that vacation when you know you have no business to even
consider that. We think about a way out when things are very
bad in our lives and we think we can’t take it anymore.

You are so close but you don’t think you can do it anymore.
That’s when most people quit and go back to the “real
world”.

At this very moment, you must remember your choice to win.
A choice you made and a promise you made to yourself. So at
that moment, you decide to push forward and not quit. That is
how winning is done. You push forward even if the weight of
the world is on your shoulders and you feel like you can’t
move. You keep moving forward and start punching back.

                      OceanofPDF.com
                             9


             Law 9 - Study Success


Surround yourself with success. Find people you admire. Then
get their books and videos. Let their voices play whenever you
have time. Make your environment and your mind a mentor
box.

We live in a world where we constantly get assaulted by
negative influences and messages. You have the power to
control your own environment.

When you are walking in the streets or taking the subway, put
in your earplugs and listen.When you are driving your car or
in the gym, start listening. When you are at home cooking, let
it play in the background.

Fill your mind with the greatest thinkers the world has ever
seen. You have no excuses, the knowledge is everywhere. You
have to take action and take control of your mental
environment.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             10


         Law 10 - Stop Complaining


Nobody cares about your feelings so stop sharing them with
other people so they can give you attention. Sharing your
feelings is a form of attention-seeking, so just stop. Were you
offended? So what? Nobody cares.

Your business deal didn’t go the way you thought and now
you walk around telling people that you are thinking about
quitting. Nobody cares.
   Your girlfriend left you and now you walk around telling
people about how she hurt you. Nobody cares.

The sooner you realize nobody cares about your feelings the
better. In the real world, only results matter and your feelings
have absolutely no effect on that.

We live in a world today where feelings matter for a lot of
people. This focus on feelings is creating a lot of chaos and
uncertainty in the world. A world that only listens to feelings
is out of balance and leads to an unstable environment.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              11


 Law 11 - Enjoy the Valley More Than
              The Peak

  “Zen is the spirit of the valley, not the mountaintop. The Only
  Zen You Find At the top of the Mountain is the Zen you bring
  with you “- Zen Proverb

Learn to enjoy the process of learning more than the actual
result of learning.

In Zen philosophy, there is an idea that all the wisdom is
found in the valley, not at the top of the mountain. Another
way to look at it is to say that the climb teaches you a lot more
than reaching the top.

All the lessons in life will be learned in the process(the
valley). You will reach the top of the mountain and it will feel
great, however, you will become someone else in the valley.

So don’t try and rush through your time climbing and hiking
through the valley. It will be hard sometimes and you might
think about giving up. You might ask yourself why you are
doing what you are doing?

Remember that the valley is where the real gold is. This is
where you will become someone you can be proud of. The
valley will test you and expose your weaknesses.

Don’t fear the valley make friends with it and if you reach the
top, look back and smile. Then find new valleys to conquer.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             12


       Law 12 - Become Very Selfish


Become Very Selfish! I’m not talking about the kind of selfish
where you don’t care about anyone else. I’m talking about
making yourself and your mission a priority.

You must be the first priority. Not your girlfriend, wife,
children or family. Remember that if you become strong then
you can take care of the people you care about. If you are weak
then you are not going to be able to be there for the people
you care about.

It’s up to you to focus on yourself first and build yourself up.
It’s your responsibility to become strong, rich, and
successful. Then you will not only help your loved ones but
also be able to help the world. So you are being selfish now so
you don’t have to be selfish in the future.

Think about it. When you go on a plane, they tell you to put
your lifejacket and mask on first, that way you can help
others. So it’s just logical for you to step up first.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                            13


 Law 13 - You Are Never On Vacation


Even on vacation you are plugged in and plotting. A vacation
is merely a different perspective for you. Weekends don’t
exist. You take time off whenever you want. That time is
whenever you want it to be. The normal workweek is
irrelevant to you. You are always switched on to your mission.

The world and its rules are a sideshow, you write your own
calendar. Things like “Thank God its Friday” is not part of
your reality. You say “Thank God it’s Monday.”

Your mindset is not in sync with the normal world that wants
a timeout from their reality. You love your reality so much
that you never want to take a break from it.

When you are independent and free you don’t need vacations.
Sure, you take some “time off ” to recharge. But even there
you have one eye on the target.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              14


Law 14 - Accept The Brutal Reality Of
            This Planet

  “In the last 3421 years of recorded history, only 268 has seen
  no war. We have acknowledged war as the ultimate form of
  competition and natural selection in the human species” Will
  and Auriel Durant,The Lessons Of History

You have long ago accepted the brutal nature of this world.
You know that all human creativity is driven from this ancient
part of us that we can’t escape.

Plato said famously that “Only the dead know the end of
War”.This knowledge that you have accepted gives you the
perspective to expect the unexpected and be ready for the
worse.

The world is a great place but you know the dark side of it.
You are not surprised when it shows up and you are prepared
to face it when it knocks on your door.

This knowledge and acceptance of the dark side of humanity
and this planet gives you the power to anticipate, strategize,
and plan for the worst-case scenario.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             15


     Law 15 - Master Your Emotions


Our emotions are some of the most powerful things in the
universe, it can push nations and individuals to its knees
through pain. It can also create incredible wealth and power
with pleasure.

Emotions are both good and bad. You can use them for light
or dark. The question is how much control do you have over
them?

Do you have to control your emotions? Yes, you have to. You
are a man and a man that lets his emotions rule over his logic
and the rational mind is weak.

Women are emotion dominant, that is their nature, but not
yours. You need to tame your emotions like a wild horse is
tamed. Of course, you will still feel your emotions but you will
be in charge and not your feelings.

When you just act on feelings you make mistakes. Mistakes
can cost you everything. If you learn how emotions work then
you can learn how to use them and channel them in the right
direction so you use the emotion and not the emotion using
you.

You take the power back. This skill takes study, time and
discipline. With time you will get better.

Martial arts is one tool you can use to not react with emotion
when physically confronted, you learn to breathe and make
decisions in a calm and calculated way while under stress and
attack.

Find other tools and books to become the master of your
emotions. In the modern world, a culture has been created by
feminists that encourage the dominance of feelings above
logic and rationality. Don’t allow this culture into your mind.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                           16


    Law 16 - Master Communication


Language is one of the greatest inventions of humans. You
have to become a master communicator. Learn about your
language and the meaning of words. If you didn’t understand
something then look it up.

Don’t just blindly read words without understanding the
meaning. If you master communication then you will never be
without money.

Communication is the foundation of marketing and sales and
if you can do those things you will be set for life.
Communication is also the secret to dating beautiful women
and building relationships. So read and learn how to
effectively speak, argue, and persuade.

Life is about persuasion and sales. You are always selling
whether you know it or not. You are selling yourself as a
human and selling your ideas to the world. Learn how to be a
master and persuade the world about your greatness.

                      OceanofPDF.com
                             17


       Law 17 - Sacrifice Short-term
               Gratification


A lot of studies have shown that people who can delay short-
term gratification have a lot more success in the long term.
Now I’m not saying you shouldn’t have fun and enjoy life, but
I am saying you need to hold back and build yourself a
fortress so you can enjoy life on a different level.

This goes for all areas of life. Wanna lose weight? Then forget
about that short-term pleasure of the pizza or chocolate, and
think about your long-term benefits of having a strong, lean,
and powerful body.

Wanna build a successful business? Then you will have to
sacrifice a lot of short-term pleasure so you can gain long-
term success. That means giving up weekends and vacations
so that you can work and finish the projects that will give you
leverage in the long term.

Want to date amazing women? Then stop doing what you
have always done with women that gave you no results. Start
over, get specialized knowledge, and start taking steps to
meet the type of woman that will make you happy long term.

                     OceanofPDF.com
                             18


   Law 18 - Master Your Fitness and
               Health


Your mind needs a machine to live this life. To get the most
out of life you need a machine(body) that is functioning at its
optimal levels and helping you to push hard to achieve your
goals.

You want to be operating at such a high level that other
people don’t understand why you have so much energy and
endurance. When your body is strong you will be able to
defend yourself and your loved ones. You will outwork
everyone in business and life, you will have great sex and be
able to enjoy life to its fullest.

Most importantly you will live longer so you can finish your
mission on this planet. Your body should be one of your main
priorities.

You need to feed your body good food and supplements so
that the fuel running through your veins is the best and gives
you the nutrition you need to be an absolute beast.

Then you need to lift weights, stretch and do some form of
cardio every week.No excuses. This must be part of your
culture. The benefit of this will literally go into every other
aspect of your life.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                            19


      Law 19 - Humor in the Face of
                Adversity


One of the principles of the Elite British Royal Marines
Commandos is “Cheerfulness in the face of adversity”.This
mindset allows Marines to operate and excel in extreme
conditions.

When things are bad and you can see the humor in the
situation then you will be unstoppable. Nothing makes your
enemies more nervous than a warrior running at them with a
smile on their face. They know they are in for a long day.

It also lifts the spirit and allows you to fight on when
everything seems to fall apart. It elevates you and creates a
space to find the positives where there seemed to be none.
There is always something to laugh about, life is a game so
find the humor in it.

                      OceanofPDF.com
                             20


      Law 20 - Time Is Your Greatest
               Commodity


The clock is ticking. Time is our greatest commodity. Once it’s
gone, you never get it back. Use your time wisely. Work hard,
play hard but use it as wisely as you can.

Make your mission in life your number 1 priority, everything
else must be number 2. As a man, your mission is always
number one. Allocate your time so that your mission is 90%
of your time.

Go sit down and look back over your previous 4 weeks. Try
and remember what you did every day. You will realize how
much time you waste.

We waste time on many pointless activities. We waste time on
movies we have already seen, taking naps, social media,
surfing the net, and talking with friends.

We live like we are never going to die. The reality is that we
have very little time on this planet. You need to get the most
out of your time here on earth. So you need to plan your
weeks and days and make sure you get the most out of every
24 hours.

Don’t complain about not having time to do things like
starting your business, going to the gym or dating the woman
of your dreams. If it’s an absolute priority then you will make
the time.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                            21


   Law 21 - Be Rational and Focused


Part of being a masculine man is being rational and focused.
If you combine these 2 qualities you can burn down cities or
create countries. They are superpowers.

For this reason, you need to use your rationality and focus as
your dominant tools and avoid emotions and feelings. Earlier
in this book, I talked about getting control of your emotions.

When you have control over your emotions then you can
unleash your rational power and combine it with your other
superpower, focus.

With rationality, we can create plans and strategies to
overcome any challenge and build any dream into reality.
With focus, we can be excellent in whatever we decide to do in
life.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                            22


    Law 22 - Be Obsessed With Your
                Mission


If you haven’t figured out what your mission or purpose is,
then figure it out now. Go sit at a desk in a quiet room and
write down what you want to do in life and then become
obsessed with executing on that dream you have.

You should be so obsessed that people start worrying about
you. When people try to stop you and try and get you off this
mission then you know this is your signal that you are on the
right path.

Notice that people will never try and discourage you from
being useless and lazy. When you waste your time with
marathon sessions of some TV show nobody will try and stop
you, in fact, they will encourage you and laugh about it with
you. But as soon as you make a decision to get in the game
and go after your goals in life you will see the “concerned
“mobs suddenly being worried about you.

They will say things like “I liked the old you better” or “You
have changed”.These are all signals to confirm that you are
finally on the right path. Keep Going!

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              23


       Law 23 - Become Resourceful


One of the biggest excuses you will give yourself in life is that
you don’t have enough resources to do whatever it is that you
want to accomplish.

This is a lie and you know it. The world owes you nothing. You
have not proved yourself, why should the world give you
anything in return?

You need to find anything you can manage to put together
and make it happen. The truth is that if something is
important enough for you then you will find a way. You will
find a way to turn it into reality if it’s an absolute must for
you.

Has it been done before? Yes, most people that have done
something incredible started with nothing. They didn’t even
have a plan. They were just so obsessed that they found a way.

The key is that it’s not a lack of resources that is your
problem, it’s a lack of resourcefulness. You must become
resourceful if you want to overcome the challenges on this
uncompromising planet. Find a way. If you hit a wall then
make a hole and build a door.

                     OceanofPDF.com
                              24


          Law 24 - You Are an Artist


You are a creator. You are an artist. You will get ideas. You will
take those ideas and your alchemy will turn those ideas into
reality. These ideas will come out of nowhere. They will
search for you.

It’s your job to show them to the world. You will need focus,
courage, and perseverance to turn them into reality. You will
see them in your mind and then you will start your alchemy
and transform a thought into something valuable.

Then the world will reward you in the form of money. You will
take this money and build wealth. You are an artist.

                        OceanofPDF.com
                             25


   Law 25 - Make Friends With Your
              Shadows


In every man, there is a dark side. This dark side gets a lot of
bad press in modern society. The side of you that is driven,
cold, obsessive, focused, determined, unstoppable and
relentless to achieve goals, is frowned upon by modern
society.

It as seen as toxic masculinity and other stupid names. The
truth is this killer instinct that drives you to overcome
adversity by pushing yourself past exhaustion and finishing
tasks that others thought impossible is your ally and friend.

He is the Pitbull you keep in the cage. You throw little pieces
of meat at it and keep it hungry. It’s the Marine Corps of your
mind. When you open that door it comes out and destroys
whatever comes in its path.

Don’t be sorry about that dark side in you. Use it as the tip of
your spear to achieve your goals. You should walk into the
shadows and make friends with that part of yourself. Bring it
under your power and control. Channel it and put it to work to
create any success you want.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                               26


    Law 26 - You Accept That The
 Universe Has A Natural Order Of Yin
              and Yang


The universe has a fundamental reality. You need to accept
this reality to live life to its fullest and operate at your optimal
level.

In today’s society, people are trying to deny this reality and
it’s causing them a lot of pain. They don’t understand that
everything they try to achieve is already in chaos because they
deny the fundamental nature of the universe.

This fundamental nature is that the universe consists of yin
and yang,masculine-feminine, hard-soft, hot-cold, water-
rock. If you deny this fact you will live in pain and bring down
others with you. Civilizations have crumbled in the past when
societies started to deny this truth.

You need to accept and embrace your masculine nature. As a
masculine man, you are attracted to the feminine and find
inspiration from it, however, you are not the feminine.

Men and women are not equal. We have strengths they don’t
have. They have strengths we don’t have. Equal opportunities
we should have, but to pretend that we are equal is crazy. Yin
and Yang by their very nature are opposites. Accept it or live
in pain and confusion for the rest of your life.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              27


    Law 27 - You Should Treat the
   Opinions Of Sheep With Absolute
               Disdain


You are a lion. Most people in the world are sheep. As a lion,
you will operate as an individual and you will be executing
your mission every day. The sheep will have their opinions
and they will try everything they can to get you off your path.

The sheep will never try and stop you when you are sleeping
or getting lazy. They will only start giving their “advice”
when you start moving and executing.

Then they will act concerned and will give advice on what
they think you should do with your life. The reason for this is
simple. They cannot understand where you get the drive to do
what you do. They also don’t want you to rise because this
will make them feel even more insignificant.

This leaves them with one option, to do everything they can
to distract and “help” you. They will say things like “I like the
old you more” or “you have changed”.Remember, this is your
signal that you are on the right path.

                     OceanofPDF.com
                              28


  Law 28 - Make a Lot Of Money and
            Become Rich


Your biggest responsibility is to make a lot of money and
become very rich. Your goal should be to become a
millionaire,multi-millionaire or even a billionaire.

It is your responsibility to do everything you can to make an
impact on this planet and leave a legacy. When you are rich
you will find that you now have options and freedom. You
have the power to make a positive change in your own life and
the lives of others.

Unfortunately, society has led us to believe that getting rich is
bad. They like talking about not having money and being a
victim. But as soon as you start talking about getting rich and
making lots of money the swords come out and people start
attacking you.

It’s a strange world where people question you for wanting to
become rich. Forget about the popcorn gallery and march on
to success. You need to go after your goals and build wealth.
It’s your duty and responsibility.

                      OceanofPDF.com
                            29


           Law 29 - Live By a Code


Most people in the world walk around without a code or set of
guidelines that could steer them through life.

So the stream of life just takes them and they go with the
flow. You need a code to live by. Your source for finding this
code is your choice. It can be inspired by a religion or
philosophy or a code that you created out of multiple sources
and experiences.

You basically need a constitution for your own life, a set of
principles. These principles should never be broken. This code
will be your guide through the good and bad on this planet.

Loyalty and honor should form a big part of your personal
constitution.

Courage, honor, loyalty, mastery, and strength. This is the
way.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              30


           Law 30 - Become Water

  “Don’t get set into one form, adapt it and build your own,
  and let it grow, be like water. Empty your mind, be formless,
  shapeless — like water. Now you put water in a cup, it
  becomes the cup; You put water into a bottle it becomes the
  bottle; You put it in a teapot it becomes the teapot” -Bruce
  Lee

Bruce Lee and his words of wisdom must be your guide. You
will be confronted by many roadblocks and obstacles on your
road to success. If you are not someone that can adapt then
you will fail.

You need to be able to assess any situation and adapt. Become
the water, don’t be the rock. Change course and move
forward. This should be second nature to you. Obstacles are
the way to success, yes try to avoid them but don’t be
surprised when they show up. Deal with them and move on.

                        OceanofPDF.com
                             31


         Law 31 - Who Dares Wins


The Famous British Special Operations unit the SAS or Special
Air Service has the famous motto “Who Dares Wins”.Truer
words have never been spoken.

Those who put themselves out there for the world to judge
and ridicule, are the ones that win in the end. If you think you
will make it without criticism and naysayers then you are in
for a big surprise. So get over that fear and dare greatly.

Dare to do the thing that people think is insane. After you
succeed they will come and ask you how you did it. First, they
doubt you then they will praise you.

You need to think so big that people think you are insane. You
need to 10x the way you think about your goals and
everything else in life.

Want a new girlfriend? Think about getting a supermodel.

Want a new car? Why not get a Ferrari?

Want to make a Million Dollars? Why not make 10 Million?

Want to get in shape? Why not build the body of a superhero?

Want to travel to a foreign country? Why not go to them all?

I think you get the picture. If you think something is possible
then go for it. Don’t let people limit the way you think.

One of the saddest things about modern life is the way society
wants dreamers to stop “Dreaming”.

They told the Wright brothers to stop dreaming. If they
listened we wouldn’t have modern air travel.

They told Roger Bannister you can’t run a mile in under 4
minutes, they told him it can’t be done. Today it’s done all the
time.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             32


       Law 32 - Become a Sheepdog


You must walk and live with the mindset of a warrior. The
planet we live on is not always a safe place. You’re responsible
for your own safety and those you care about. If something
bad happens that you could have avoided then it’s your fault.

You can avoid the most worst-case scenarios by being
prepared. You must build a sheepdog mindset. The Idea of the
Sheepdog Mindset was pioneered by Lt. Col. Dave Grossman
of the US Army.

What is the Sheepdog mindset? Well on this planet there are
sheep, wolves, and sheepdogs.

The sheep are most people on the planet, they are weak and
vulnerable. Then there are wolves, the predators. They pick
off sheep. They are trained and skilled in taking out sheep.

The sheepdog has many of the same skills as the wolf,
however, the sheepdog doesn’t hunt sheep. It’s his job to stop
the wolves from destroying the sheep. The sheepdog is
skillful, fast, strong, and prepared for the wolf.

You must build a sheepdog mindset and skillset to be
confident that you can protect yourself and the people you
care about. You need to be able to protect yourself using your
body and a variety of weapons.

You should know basic CPR and know how to operate in an
urban environment. It is very important that you learn to
become very aware of your environment. This is your
responsibility as a man.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             33


 Law 33 - Meat Is The Foundation Of
             Your Diet


Eat meat and lots of it. It’s the source of all masculine power.
Don’t fall for the trap of modern vegan/vegetarian
propaganda. You need meat and lots of it.

If you can eat wild meat then even better. If you can hunt your
own meat, even better. Elk or any other good quality wild
meat will be perfect. If you live in a city then try to buy
organic meat.

Beef or lamb should be your first choice if you are shopping in
a supermarket. If you can’t afford organic or grass-fed meat
then buy the best meat you can find. You need meat as a man.

Whenever I stop eating red meat for a while I can feel my
energy levels and drive going down. Modern science confirms
that meat is the best form of protein a man can eat. Plants just
can’t compare with meat in terms of what you need as a man.
I will take the steak every time over a salad.

                     OceanofPDF.com
                             34


 Law 34 - Confront Your Demons and
            Let Them Go


We all have demons. We all have a past. Things that
happened, mistakes that were made and things you can’t
change.

You need to face them, deal with them and get over them. If
you don’t they will haunt you and stop you from reaching
your full potential.

Some of these things will be difficult to overcome. Life throws
things at you that you don’t expect. You then do and say
things that you regret. You wish you could have done things
differently,but you can’t, it’s too late. This does not make you
a bad person. It makes you human.

We all make mistakes. We all have things that we want to do
over if we could have a second chance. But there are no
second chances. You can only learn from that experience and
move on.

You have to cut those experiences from your life and let them
go. Don’t replay those memories in your mind over and over
again hoping that things will change. You are just punishing
yourself.

Instead, start imagining a new future. Start dreaming about
yourself in the future and the great memories you want to
create. Visualise your ideal life. This is a healthy exercise
because you have power over your future. You can shape and
influence your future. You can’t do that with your past. LET IT
GO!

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             35


Law 35 - You Are Entitled To Nothing


You are entitled To Nothing, you have to earn it.

On this planet, nobody owes you anything. If you want
something you have to earn it.

We live in a culture where there is a very high and widespread
level of delusional entitlement. You have to step back and
realize that you will not get any handouts and you don’t want
any handouts.

You will build and create your own reality on this planet like
an alchemist. You will take ideas and create. You will create
value and build wealth. Nobody will give you a thing. You will
create it yourself.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              36


    Law 36 - Your Mind is Constantly
        Growing and Expanding


In her Famous Book Mindset, Carol Dweck talks about the
concept of the Growth Mindset. Her studies focused on why
people fail. She then created the terms “Fixed” and “Growth”
Mindset.

A fixed mindset is when someone believes their talents and
intelligence are fixed traits. These people believe that you
can’t change reality.

The people with a growth mindset believe that with hard
work, focus and determination you can change and improve.

The growth mindset has to be part of your psychological
makeup. You need to believe that you can get better and
improve for the rest of your life. The fact that you reading this
book already shows me that you are a person with a growth
mindset.

Hard work combined with focus, courage, determination,
perseverance, and self-discipline will lift mountains.

                     OceanofPDF.com
                              37


   Law 37 - Self Discipline Should Be
   The Foundation Of Your Personal
                Culture

  “There are a thousand excuses for failure but never a good
  reason.“-Mark Twain

Your life culture should have a foundation of Self-Discipline.
Self Discipline will be the weapon you use to cut through all
the bullshit in life. You will find a sanctuary in self-discipline.
It is here that you will elevate yourself above the crowds.

When you embrace self-discipline your power will grow and
you will be able to achieve whatever you want. You have to
battle your natural impulses for the rest of your life. Your
worst impulses like laziness and short-term gratification are
like bad tenants that get kicked out for not paying rent.
However, these bad guys wait outside the building until you
leave so they can move back in. So you have to stay conscious
of them being there and constantly keep them out.

This is the nature of your brain and you need to accept it and
use self-discipline. Your success depends on it. You will need
to sacrifice a lot to win long term. You will need to give up
nights out, holidays, tasty food, parties, movies, tv shows,
time with your girlfriend, and many others.

This is the reality of the Masculine Mindset where Self
Discipline is the foundation.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                            38


   Law 38 - Constantly Evaluate Your
             Own Habits

  “Whether you think you can or you think you can’t,you’re
  right” - Henry ford

We all have habits. Some good and others are bad. Most of the
time we are not even conscious of the habits we have. For
example, you probably do 95% of the same things every week.
You go to the same places, see the same people, watch the
same tv shows, eat the same food, or date the same type of
woman.

If you do an audit of your habits over the last year you will
find that you have a lot of destructive habits that cause you
pain. You will find a few good ones that maybe you didn’t
even know you had. Good ones like brushing your teeth and
drinking water. Simple but good.

You also have unconscious bad habits. For example, always
sitting down in front of the TV after work. If you do it every
night at the cost of your goals then it’s a bad habit.

The bad habits are the ones that should be eliminated. As
mentioned above you have unconscious bad habits. But you
also have bad habits that you know you have and don’t stop
doing. They all have to get out of your life.

Also, you need to design your own habits. By creating your
own habits you automatically empower yourself. Most
scientists say it takes about thirty days to install new habits.
It’s possible to change your habits, but you need to believe
that you can do it. Stop falling for the bullshit people like to
say like “I can’t do it”.That is weak thinking.

I hear many people say, “I can’t stop smoking”.

I then answer with, “That’s bullshit, but you are right”.

The person then acts surprised that I agree with them, and
also wonder why I didn’t give them the “victim card”. Well,
the reality is that if you say you can’t do something and you
believe it, then it’s hard to change it. The opposite is also true.
If you say “I can stop smoking ” then 90% of the battle is
already won. Self-discipline will take care of the rest.

I was a smoker for about 10 years from high school through
University. I just stopped. I didn’t use patches or gum. I just
stopped because I decided I can and I wanted to.

I also use pain to force myself to stop. What would happen to
me if I didn’t stop? That is a powerful question that could
have a bad answer. For example, if I don’t stop I will die from
a smoking-related disease. So I use the potential pain of
disease to force myself to stop.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             39


     Law 39 - Use Pain and Pleasure


Don’t let pain and pleasure use you. I first learned about this
concept from Tony Robbins. It’s one of the most powerful
tools you can use to change yourself and get whatever you
want. Humans are motivated by pain and pleasure.

We either do something to move closer to pleasure or we do
something to get away from pain. For example, we go to the
gym to get stronger, feel good about ourselves and look good
naked. Those are feelings of pleasure.

We can also motivate ourselves to go to the gym by using fear.
The fear of getting fat and obese. Or maybe you used to be fat
and people teased you for it and that was painful. Then you
need that pain to drive you to go to the gym and get the body
you want.

Pleasure and pain are helpful tools. In my own life, I have
used pain to elevate and transform my whole life. The
mistakes I made in the past was so painful that I used it to
drive me to victory. By constantly reminding myself of that
pain I was able to overcome any obstacle that was put in my
way.

After I transformed my life I started using pleasure more as a
motivator. If I would reach a certain target I would reward
myself with a short breakaway travel holiday to a different
country. The pleasure of traveling pushed me to break my
sales targets.

You too can use pain and pleasure. These 2 poles of human
psychology are very deep in our brains and they can be used
to great effect to get what you want.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             40


     Law 40 - It's Not One Thing, Its
               Everything


You need to take a Holistic Approach. It’s not one thing, its
everything. Many men who want to change their lives think if
they change one area then magically everything else will fall
into place. It does not work that way.

You need to attack life at all levels. Your business, fitness,
self-defense, mindset, wealth and happiness are all part of
who you are. You need to improve and maintain high levels of
development in all those areas.

You can’t afford weakness in any area. They all contribute to
your greater good. One pillar starts falling apart and you will
be exposed in another.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              41


            Law 41 - Learn Patience


Patience is not very popular in the modern world. People want
something right now. Instant gratification is all that matters
in the world we live in today.

If you think overnight success is a real thing then you are in
for a big surprise.

The reality is that there is no instant success, it’s a myth, it’s
a unicorn. The news you were sold is fake. Marketers and
scam artists sold you the false idea. The only way you become
successful and build wealth is by being patient and putting in
the hard work.

No long term success has ever been created without hard
work. That’s the reason why lotto winners lose it all within a
few years. They waste it because on an unconscious level they
know they didn’t earn it. So they self-destruct and waste it.

You need to prepare yourself with the knowledge that you will
have to do your time, work hard, and face hardships before
you can get what you want in life.

                      OceanofPDF.com
                             42


Law 42 - You Exist In a World Beyond
         The Normal World


The Rules of the Masses Mean Nothing To You.

You Exist In A Different World. In your world, you live by your
own code. You operate by different standards. What other
people fantasize about you do.

You live a life where nothing is beyond you. You must find
motivation in your purpose that drives you to be a driven,
calculating machine. You will then be able to take what you
want when you want.

You have the courage to dream big and turn those ideas into
reality. This is a world most people don’t believe exist.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                            43


        Law 43 - You Have to Travel


You Have to Travel! If you can travel globally then travel
locally. You need your senses to stay sharp and you need your
creativity to stay active. New countries, cultures, and
experiences will show you new perspectives that will keep
your mind dynamic.

When you keep on having the same experiences you will start
feeling dull and static. You have to get out of where you
normally live as much as possible. It doesn’t mean you need
to take off from your mission. You take your work with you.
You can work anywhere.

                      OceanofPDF.com
                             44


 Law 44 - The Way You Look Matters


Don’t fall for the Myth that all that matters is your
personality. That is an excuse for lazy people. How you look
and present yourself matters. It influences how you see
yourself and how the world sees you. You need to take pride in
your own appearance.

It’s not egotistical to look good. It’s your responsibility to
look good. Dress well, look sharp. Make sure you are fit and in
shape. Make sure you eat healthily and look your best.

You don’t need to look like a movie star. It’s not about your
genetics. It’s about the best version of you. Take what you
have and make it look good. You will change the way people
see you in business, dating, and life in general. The way you
walk through the world matters. So look good while you do it.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                            45


 Law 45 - Use Your Ego As A Weapon


The ego has gotten a bad reputation over the years. Sure there
are times where the ego gets out of control and totally takes
over someone’s life. This is dangerous because when this
happens the person usually become delusional and loses
everything. However when you recognize the power of your
ego and learn to control it then you can channel your ego to
drive you forward.

The ego can become something that motivates you to take on
seemingly impossible tasks and finish them successfully. For
example, maybe you see yourself as someone that dates
incredibly beautiful women? This is the standard you set for
yourself and you won’t settle for anything else. Sure there
might be some ego involved in this way of thinking but the
outcome is pretty awesome. Dating beautiful women is great.
Having high standards is great.

Of course, you need to balance your ego out with a bit of
substance, for example, date beautiful women that are good
people. You don’t want to date a beautiful soulless nightmare.
That’s when the ego brings you down.

So be aware that the ego drive is powerful but it is not very
wise. So keep it in mind. Your ego should be tamed like a
Pitbull. Sometimes you let that Pitbull off the leash, but
sometimes you gotta take control and put that leash back on.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                            46


Law 46 - If You Want Something You
Have Never Had, You Must Be Willing
 To Do Something You Have Never
                Done


Think about the things you have done before in your life.
Think about the things that have brought you to this point. If
you are not yet where you want to be then you need to
evaluate the things you have done up to this point.

Maybe not throw everything out, but take what you are doing
and 10X it. Make it bigger and more powerful. Strategize and
learn, find out where you can improve. When you are done,
attack with everything you have.

The reality is that the success level you want to reach is far
beyond where you are now. That means you will have to
change your game.

The truth is that You Must Be Willing To Do Something You
Have Never Done to get the thing you have never had. Think
about it. The universe is cause and effect. You reap what you
sow, if you plant the right seeds then the tree will grow. Plant
the wrong ones and you will have no food to eat.

The thing about taking your life up to another level is that you
are probably unaware that another level exists. You may be
saying things to yourself like “I’m tired” or “I need a
holiday”.These are usually things that we tell ourselves when
we get uncomfortable. The good news is when things get
uncomfortable that means the game just started.

Muhammad Ali used to say that he didn’t count situps until it
started burning. Then he started his count. You should have
the same mindset. When things get hard or uncomfortable
then you should get a smile on your face and say “game on”.

You simply have to play at a level that you think is
“impossible” to get what you want. You will be surprised
what you are capable of. The Navy Seals have the 40% rule. If
you think you are done that means you are only 40% done.

When you start implementing the 40% rule you will be doing
something you have never done before. You will push through
your own mental boundaries. This will result in you getting
things you never thought were possible.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             47


 Law 47 - Why You Should Make The
      Climb Without The Rope


If you look at success as a mountain that you need to climb
and you climb it with a safety net, you will fail. Dabbling in
things will be one of your greatest obstacles. Putting one foot
in the water and thinking it will be enough for you to
experience how strong the current is, is a mistake. The reality
is that you have to jump in the water to really feel the current
of the water. The current of life is the same, you need to
commit to whatever you are trying to achieve.

Dabbers will try something a little bit and then say”it didn’t
work.” They take half measures. The truth is that half
measures are for cowards. Jump in and totally try something
before you say it doesn’t work. The problem with dabbling or
half-measures is that you never fully commit to the thing you
are doing, so it never gets the momentum it needs to take off.

There is a famous scene in the Batman movie where Batman
is in jail. There is a big wall that he needs to climb and then
make a final jump to his freedom. He makes multiple efforts
to climb and then jumps, but he keeps failing. One of the
veteran prisoners then tells him there is a simple reason he
fails. He fails because he climbs with the rope. He is not fully
committed because he has the safety rope as a way out if he
doesn’t succeed.When he uses the rope he doesnt have fear
that drives him.

So then Batman takes off the rope and with all the fear and
desperation of this reality, he fully commits and succeeds.

Sure, this is an extreme example but I think you get the point.
We all need to take off the safety net and fully commit to
whatever we are doing. This is the only way to reach our full
potential.When we allow fear into our lives and use it to drive
us then we can achieve incredible things.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                            48


   Law 48 - Comfort Zones Are Your
               Enemy


The dangerous thing about comfort zones is that you usually
don’t realize you are in them. You do the same thing every day
and you see no progress. Maybe you go to the gym and do the
same workout without ever changing it up or pushing
yourself to total exhaustion. Or maybe at work, you are stuck
in a job you hate but you are too comfortable to realize you
are in a vulnerable position.

Comfort zones sneak up on you until they get exposed and
then all hell breaks loose. When I was younger I went through
selection for a Special Operations Unit. I prepared for this
selection by myself and thought my physical preparation
would be enough. I never really pushed myself to the levels I
needed to.

My comfort zone imploded on me as a failed selection the
first time. I was badly exposed as someone that was badly
prepared and consequently exposed. The reason was my
comfort zone, I wasn’t aware of how unprepared I was.

When things become too easy it usually means you are
becoming weak and soft. Always ask yourself if you are doing
enough and if you are really pushing yourself to the max.

Do not let yourself get exposed because you got seduced by
your own comfort zone. Go out and seek discomfort because
this is where you will find the dynamic energy you need to
succeed in all areas of life.

                      OceanofPDF.com
                             49


 Law 49 - Where Focus Goes Energy
              Flows


“Where Focus goes energy flows” - Tony Robbins

Sound like a nice little thing to say but the power of these
words are underestimated. Think about it, if you put the
absolute focus on any area of your life then all your energy
will flow into it.

Let’s take fitness as an example. If that is something you have
as an important goal then you put a lot of focus on it. That
means reading, learning and trying different things related to
it.

As soon as you make something your focus then it will
automatically start moving energy into that area of your life
and you will start seeing change happen. It happens
automatically when you use the power of focus. It’s a simple
idea that leads to powerful results.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              50


Law 50 - Become Excellent At Things
             You Hate


There is a common way of thinking that we should just follow
our passion and just do things that we love. This way of
thinking also says that we should just outsource things we
don’t like or just don’t do them until you find something you
love.

The problem with this is that there is no job or profession in
the world that is so perfect that everything in your day is
something you love. Sure you can find a job that’s pretty
awesome but it won’t be perfect.

My job now is pretty cool, but there are still things that I have
to do that I hate. When I started my first business there were
many things that I had to do that I hated. But that process
taught me valuable lessons on how to become successful. It
also gave me a better understanding of the different levels of
my business.

With my fitness, I still do things I hate. I hate running but I do
it because I have to and I feel great when I’m done.

I don’t like talking to strangers all the time but when I want
to meet women I walk up to them and start a conversation, I
became good at it because I love beautiful women.

If the end goal is important enough for you then you will find
a way to become good at things you hate. Don’t fall for the
trap that you have to have a passion for everything, it’s a
mental trap.

You will learn perseverance and mental toughness by doing
things you hate. It’s a sign of mental weakness to give up on
your goals because you didn’t like to do something at that
moment.

For me to reach my goals I will do anything I have to and
overcome any obstacle to be successful. I’m obsessed. You
have to be a little “crazy” to reach your goals.

                        OceanofPDF.com
                            51


  Law 51 - People Are Not Equal And
            Never Will Be


There is a very strange and popular way of thinking in the
world that is very widespread. This way of thinking is that we
are all equal or should all be equal.

This thinking is poisonous and will destroy everything of
value on this planet. I do agree that we need equal
opportunities. However, we are not equal and we never will
be.

We must always focus on becoming better and competing
with others to be better. This means some will become better
than others and therefore push society and this civilization
ahead. The victim culture is poison.

We need to look up to people who strive for excellence. We
need to find inspiration in people who do extraordinary
things. Some people will work harder than others. Some
people will outwork everybody. Some will win and some will
lose. This is the reality of this planet.This is what keeps this
planet moving forward.

Any society in history that tried to make everyone equal has
only lead to death and destruction.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                            52


   Law 52 - Suffering Is Your Teacher


Suffering is your teacher. When you know and accept this
fundamental truth of life then you will find a lot of lessons
and wisdom in challenging times.

Most of us want to avoid the suffering and hard times but
there is a lot to learn when suffering happens. You will learn
about yourself and your capacity to keep on moving forward
in the face of adversity.

The good news is even if you find it hard to deal with
suffering you can improve, learn and get stronger. There are
different forms of suffering, sometimes it’s self-imposed like
when we put ourselves through extreme workouts.

Sometimes you go through a bad breakup. Sometimes you get
fired from a job, sometimes a business you started fails.
Sometimes the death of a family member or friend shakes our
reality.

Whatever it is, there is something to learn. So next time a
painful thing happens, don’t look away and try to avoid it.
Look at it, confront it and start feeling that pain and ask
yourself “what can I learn from this?”

You will find that there is always something to learn that will
make you a better an stronger man. So next time you will be
more resilient in the face of more suffering that will come
your way.

When you confront the bad times of life you will get stronger.
Then when bad things happen in the future you will be the
man everyone around you will depend on. You will not fall
apart when friends and family need guidance and strength.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              53


   Law 53 - Execute Every Day, Stop
             Overthinking

  “Any plan no matter how poorly conceived, boldly executed
  is better than inaction ” - US Infantry Manual

Einstein said that nothing happens until someone moves.
This is true in all areas of life. You can have 500 great ideas
but they will all be useless until they get implemented and
turned into reality.

There are so many guys that said that they had the same idea
as Tinder, Facebook or Uber. So what? Did you take action on
those ideas? No!

If you didn’t take action on those ideas then those ideas are
useless. If you take action on an average idea and implement
it, and then turn it into reality you will be a lot more powerful
than a genius idea that nobody ever heard about.

Execution on ideas is the only thing that matters.

                        OceanofPDF.com
                             54


     Law 54 - Become Unpredictable


We all get into patterns. We start doing something in a certain
way and before you know it you’ve done it for weeks, months
and years. People who know you well know what you are
going to do.

Groups of people also get predictable, this is why cultures are
so strong, it creates patterns and predictability.
Unfortunately, this predictability has a downside. The
downside is that it lets your opponents and enemies know
what you are going to do before you do it.

On a different level, it’s just boring.I’m not saying change all
patterns in your life, but I’m saying change things up, throw-
in something different now and then.

Think something through from a different perspective, ask
different questions, try a new workout program, take your
date to a different place, do something new in bed with your
girlfriend, get up one hour earlier than usual, go to bed 2
hours later.

Change is good, it changes the static to the dynamic and
starts a new sequence of events. Its sparks creativity and
gives you the strategic advantage in business, relationships or
all areas of your life.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             55


       Law 55 - Become Consistent


Consistency is one of the most underrated powers in the
universe.Sometimes people have everything they need to
become successful. They only thing they miss is consistency.
So they fail and then start looking for a new plan or solution
for their problem.

They then start with their new plan and fail again. They then
go look for a new plan again. They keep on doing this same
circle and nothing works.
   Not because the plan is bad, but because they are not
consistently executing on their plan.

For example, if you need to break down a giant wall with only
a hammer then you will never break it down with just one hit
of your hammer. Even a few hits for a minute won’t do much
damage.

But start hitting the same spot for hours every day, for weeks.
That wall is going down if you keep on doing that action. This
is what consistency does. It gets results. The power of
consistency will make or break your success.

                    OceanofPDF.com
                              56


     Law 56 - Become a Free Thinker


You are an individual. In today’s culture of collectivism where
everyone thinks the same and follow the masses, it’s easy to
get swept away. The culture of today is very critical and can
even be violent if you think or act differently than the
mainstream culture. This is dangerous and weak.

You have to analyze reality as it is, not as a society tells you it
is or they wish it were. You have to analyze information
yourself and then form an opinion based on your own
information.

If you don’t know about something then find out or just don’t
comment on it until you know something about it. Thinking
freely is the ethical way to go through reality on this planet
and do the right things for yourself and for society. Find
independent credible sources of information to get a balanced
picture of reality.

All the parts of history that caused mass destruction and
death were when people thought in groups and not as
individuals. As a man, it is important to keep your mind as
your own domain. Keep it independent, free and dynamic.

                     OceanofPDF.com
                              57


       Law 57 - Think Like Socrates

  “The Socratic method can be defined as the following “It is a
  form of a cooperative argumentative dialogue between
  individuals, based on asking and answering questions to
  stimulate critical thinking and to draw out ideas and
  underlying presumptions.” - Wikipedia

Socrates was probably the greatest thinker in human history.
The method of inquiry that he gave the world is called the
Socratic Method. Socrates was a classical Athenian
(Greek)philosopher, who lived from 469 B.C. to 399 B.C.

To put it in very simple terms, Socrates asks a series of
questions to guide him to the truth. It is a basic forum for
open-ended inquiry, one in which 2 or more people can use
questions to develop a deeper understanding of a topic.

This is a very powerful method to adapt for your personal use
to solve problems and find the truth in all areas of your life.

                        OceanofPDF.com
                             58


     Law 58 - Become a Deal Maker


You are a business whether you know it or not. You are selling
yourself, your ideas and everything else on this planet.

You are constantly making deals and agreements with people
about what to do next. So you need to study and develop this
area and learn how to become a dealmaker that is able to get
the most out of any business, personal or professional deals.

If you can master this skill you will always have success in all
areas of life. Find the resources and mentors to show you the
art of the deal.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              59


       Law 59 - Become a Man That
         Confronts His Inner Bitch


We all have that little voice inside us that is the complainer.
The little voice that starts telling you “this is hard” or “I
don’t like this”.It’s that little bitch that starts whispering in
your ear when you need to go to the gym and tells you to go
tomorrow and not go today.

It’s that little voice that tells you not to make the sales call.
It’s the little voice that tells you not to talk to the beautiful
women at the Coffee Shop.its the little voice that gets upset
when you get criticized by other men. It’s that little voice that
wants to stop working when you feel the first sign of fatigue.
That voice is your inner bitch.

You need to kick that little bitch out. Confront it and kick it
out. You will find that the voice slips back into your mind
whenever you let your guard down. Then just repeat the
process and kick it out. You can’t let this little bitch dominate
your mind.

This inner bitch has control of a large part of men all over the
planet. These men have forgotten what it means to be a man.
They have given away their power and sovereignty.

These men have given the inner bitch freedom to run around
and take control of their minds and lead them into misery.
You cannot allow this. Take back your sovereignty and
reclaim your power. Kick it out!

                        OceanofPDF.com
                              60


      Law 60 - Winning Is Important


Participation trophies are for losers and is an insult to all
men. Giving people participation trophies is doing damage to
young men all over the planet.

Unfortunately, young men, these days are taught that
competition is bad and that “all that matters is that you
play”.No this is a lie. Sure there is a fun aspect, but winning is
important, it’s very important.

For a man being competitive is part of reality and what makes
life fun. It’s good to be tested and to see how far you can go.

                        OceanofPDF.com
                             61


       Law 61 - Testosterone is Your
               Superpower


The hormones in your body must be optimized to give you the
right balance so that you can be operating at your full
potential. As a man you need your testosterone levels to be
high and healthy.

Testosterone is your biggest ally. In the modern world, there
is a war on testosterone. The unhealthy lifestyles popularized
in mainstream cultures are destroying the testosterone levels
of men around the world and this is causing a massive
imbalance in societies around the world.

The effects of that can be seen in the levels of depression and
unhappiness among men around the world. This imbalance is
also having bad effects on women because they feel the
weakness in the men around them.

The women then turn to things like extreme feminism to fill
the hole. With knowing all this you need to make it a priority
in your life to make sure your testosterone is optimized at all
times.

How do we do this? We start with diet. We need lots of red
meat, fish, butter, eggs and high-quality supplements. Avoid
processed food and soy products that raise your estrogen
levels.

Then we need consistent weight training and other outdoor
activities. Get outside and breath fresh air. A great way to get
the blood flowing is to chop wood or do martial arts.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                            62


     Law 62 - Unify Art and Science


“The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing.” -
Socrates

Humans with all its advancements and achievements have a
very limited understanding of the universe. We have barely
scraped the surface.

It’s wise to combine the best of science with the best of the
arts(art/religion/unknown/philosophy). This will give you
the edge in terms of being able to keep an open mind.

The danger of just choosing one side is the arrogance of
thinking you know everything. Nobody does. You know that
science has incredible power, but so does the arts.

I respect the achievements of science but also know that the
great unknowns/mysteries/wisdom has a lot of power and
wisdom.

                      OceanofPDF.com
                            63


Law 63 - The Small Things Define You


The way you do small things define you. Quality
matters.Excellence matter. We can never be perfect but
excellence is possible.

The way you wash your car, make your bed, wash the dishes,
do your bench presses, walk, do your work, wash your body
and everything else is part of your expression as a human.
The way you do small things is all part of who you are. Start
doing everything you do with excellence in mind.

There is a meditative aspect to doing things very well. In Zen
philosophy focusing on one thing and doing it well is the
cornerstone of living life.

Go to Japan and walk around the streets. You will see and
underlying excellence in everything. From the way, they clean
the streets in front of the stores to the way the make sushi.
They take exceptional pride in everything they do. Their lives
are their art.

Do you remember the scene in Karate Kid Where Mr.Miyagi
tells Daniel to paint the wall? In the scene, Daniel is at
Mr.Miyagi’s home and he wants to learn Karate. To his
surprise, Mr. Miage tells him to wash the car,“Wax on, wax
off”.Daniel first gets angry because he thinks he is wasting
his time. Then later realizes he has been learning martial arts
through “Wax on, wax off”.

The point of the story is that we sometimes learn the most by
doing things in life that we don’t think matter. The truth is
that everything matters. The small things that you think
don’t matter, are all that matters. It creates your reality one
step at a time.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                            64


      Law 64 - Always Have an Exit
                Strategy


Some laws contradict each other and this law is one of those
that might seem like it contradicts others. I have mentioned
before to make the climb without the rope. I still stand by
that, but it doesn’t mean I’m blind to the volatile nature of
this universe.

I think you should make the climb without the rope. However,
we all know there is a chance that you might slip and fall.
That is the risk you take if you want to reach greatness. So
having an exit strategy is smart. Having an exit strategy just
means you commit so fully to life and play the game so hard
that you have a metaphorical getaway car ready if everything
around you explodes. This is just being smart.

For example, in your life at home, you should have a ready
bag under your bed with cash, your passport, id pictures, and
a first aid kit for when things go bad for whatever reason. We
don’t know what will happen, a hurricane might destroy your
home, who knows? Bad things happen, deal with it.

You will probably not have to fight people on the street but
what if the 1% chance does happen? You are walking down the
street with your girlfriend and you get confronted by bad
dudes? If you don’t know how to handle yourself then you are
in trouble. You need a foundational martial art and you need
to get in the gym regularly.

What if your business goes badly for whatever reason? How
do your finances look? Did you get your money right? If the
answer is no, then start now. Bad things happen, it could be a
death in the family, cancer, a lawsuit or getting fired. It all
costs money. You have the time now to prepare and get your
money right.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                            65


  Law 65 - You Become Better When
            Things Are Bad


It’s easy to be good when things are easy, but when things are
bad what are you going to do? We all go into periods of
hardships and setbacks. When they happen most people fall
apart and all the goals and visions for the future go out the
back door.

The victim mindset makes its return like a virus that didn’t
die. This is your test. When everything falls apart what will
you do? Will you allow things to disintegrate or will you tell
yourself to regroup and absorb the punches?

The punches might keep on coming but you must start
punching back and start moving forward again. Getting
trapped in a corner and knocked out is not a position you
want to be in. Fight Back!

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             66


  Law 66 - Try Things That Scare You
  But Remember About The Shadows


You should be open to new experiences. I assume that if you
are reading this you are someone that is curious and lives
outside the boundaries that the sheep follow.

You will experience many opportunities to do things that
might be seen as “wrong” or “controversial”.I am not saying
you should break the law or do these things. This could range
from climbing Everest or having an Ayahuasca experience.
What I am saying is ask questions, find knowledge and then
take calculated risks.

The experience on this earth is dynamic and you can
sometimes get unique insight from wandering outside the
normal fence of society. However, don’t place yourself in a
position that could destroy your long term mission.

Always remember that in the shadows there are things that
once they pull you in you might not come back. If you feel on a
gut level something is not for you after looking into it, then
don’t do it. Walk away. Your mission is always the most
important.

                    OceanofPDF.com
                             67


 Law 67 - Actions Speak Louder Than
               Words

  “What you do speaks so loud I can’t hear what you say.” -
  Ralph Waldo Emerson

Make your actions the thing that speaks the loudest. A lot of
people talk the talk but don’t walk the walk. In fact, most
people like to talk.

Standing in the bar they like to talk about that girl they are
going to ask out or that business they are going to start or the
trip they are going to take, or that fitness plan they are going
to start. Talk to that person a month or even a year later and
nothing has happened. This is the mind virus of just talking
and making a noise and never following through on
something.

The problem is that after a while nobody will take you
seriously but even worse, on a subconscious level you will
stop trusting yourself and that is a terrible position to be in.
Don’t fall in this trap.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             68


   Law 68 - You Should be Guided by
             the 10% Elite


The reality is that you can’t read all the books on the planet.
You need to find the best and most important knowledge and
make that a priority.

Forget about 90% of books out there. When it comes to
knowledge and books its easy to become overwhelmed and
think you have too many books to read.

Focus on 20 important books first and master them. Know the
key lessons in those books and really make the books part of
who you are.When you finish doing that you can start
building on top of that foundation of knowledge.

There is a danger today with so much knowledge available
that you can get lost in it all and not learn anything. Kind of
like a paralysis by analysis. You spend so much time
analyzing potential books to read that you never get to
actually reading any books.

                    OceanofPDF.com
                             69


     Law 69 - Don't Just Accept The
               Resistance


When you start your mission of going after your purpose you
will find that something strange will happen. You will try and
sabotage yourself.

Steven Pressfield in his great book “The War of Art” calls it
the resistance. The resistance is that voice that comes up
whenever you start to do something creative that will move
you forward in life.

It could be starting a business, writing a book, starting a new
project or planning a big trip. This voice or resistance will
come out of nowhere and will give you good reasons why you
should not do it.

This “resistance” is one of the biggest bullshit artists in the
world. It will make up stories and very convincing arguments
on why you should not do the work.

For example, you want to write a book and finally, you decide
to get up and sit at your desk. As soon as you sit down a voice
in your mind will tell you " Hey John, why don’t you take a 30
min nap before you start then you will feel a lot more
refreshed and ready to work when you wake up.”

If you fall for the trap and take a nap you probably don’t do
any writing for months. This is the resistance doing its
ridiculous job on you.

Another example is you want to go to the gym, you are sitting
on your couch thinking about going to the gym after months
of doing nothing. So you tell yourself “Ok let’s get up and
go”.Suddenly the voice appears and says,” Hey John, let’s
check out Facebook and drink a coffee and then you will
go”.The gym never happens. Who sabotaged it? Our little
friend the resistance.

Don’t fall for the trap of the resistance!

                        OceanofPDF.com
                             70


 Law 70 - Be An Optimist That Thinks
             Negatively


Just being positive about everything is not going to help you.
In fact, it’s going to lead you down paths that will lead to
disappointment that could have been avoided.

Thinking about the worst things that could happen and then
approaching the situation optimistically will give you a big
advantage. If you expect the worse to happen you will then be
able to avoid obstacles and not think it’s the end of the world
if things go bad.

Thinking this way means you never get distracted by negative
events because your mindset is one that accepts the reality of
the planet and moves forward regardless of bad things
happening.

You are an optimist that uses negativity to your advantage.
Many men fail because they only think positive and then are
shocked and defeated when things go bad. They lose
everything.

With your mindset of optimism combined with negativity
gives you the edge, you go over and around obstacles and just
keep on pushing forward no matter what happens.

                      OceanofPDF.com
                              71


        Law 71 -Become Relentless


You have to become relentless in your approach to success
and life in general. Your time here on this planet is limited. So
you need to be relentless to reach your full potential.

To be relentless you have to stop making excuses. Excuses are
just a way for us to not taking responsibility for our own
actions. As a masculine man, you have already taken full
ownership and responsibility for your life, so excuses are
waste of time.

Stop looking for the next “hack” or “shortcut” to get you
where you want to go. There are no shortcuts. You need to
have a goal, make a plan and execute.

If you are reading this book you are obviously one of those
men who want to achieve great things in life and therefore
you should only be thinking about how you will get to you
where you want to go. Do whatever it takes to go after what
you want. Don’t make excuses for your relentless actions, just
do it.

You have to consistently push yourself to do more. Whenever
you feel like you want to take a vacation or break, pause for a
second look around you and ask yourself this question. In
your current situation right now, are you happy about it? Are
you happy with your money? Are you happy with your fitness?
Are you happy about your dating or relationships? If the
answer is no then don’t even think about taking a break.

You have to be severe and push yourself into the red. Forget
about this modern way of thinking where every second
person you meet is talking about suffering from
“burnout”.This is part of the victimhood mentality in the
world today, don’t fall for that garbage.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              72


       Law 72 - Influence The World

  “If you are playing a poker game and you look around the
  table and you can’t tell who the sucker is, it’s you.” -Paul
  Newman

The World is always trying to influence you. This influence is
not good or evil,its just the reality of the planet. We live on an
economic planet, we make deals and try to influence people to
make more deals. When you are aware of this influence you
can start to control it and then turn the tables. This includes
news, movies, and media. This is difficult but you can reduce
these influences.

After taking control of your own external influences,you can
change the game. Now you can start becoming the influence.
Become competitive and start influencing people on this
planet with your ideas and thoughts so that they come to you
to make deals. You can win and let other people win by being
in partnership with you.Start Influencing the world today!

                        OceanofPDF.com
                             73


         Law 73 - Build Momentum


What keeps us back psychologically with all areas of life is a
lack of momentum. The power of momentum is immense.
Momentum can cause you to increase whatever gains you
have so quickly it’s unbelievable.

In business, you can double and triple your income if you
build momentum. With lifting weights you can start seeing
incredible gains by getting momentum. With dating, you can
start dating many women or the women of your dreams with
momentum.

The problem is we usually stop just before we get momentum
or we sabotage momentum by doing stupid things. In Physics
the word momentum is defined as “the quantity of motion of
a moving body”.

This motion or movement is dynamic energy that is making
things happen by itself once it gets going.

In my life, I have started businesses thinking to myself how
hard it’s going to be to get this thing going. But then with the
momentum, it just starts taking off with less energy required
by me. This is the power of momentum.

If you are aware of momentum you can do incredible things in
any area of your life. You then have the mindset of building
momentum as soon as possible, it should be a priority.

Look at winning sports teams. Before they start winning they
go through a patch where they lose and people start
criticizing them. They then pick up one win and then another.
Before you know it they have won ten in a row. They got
momentum and now they are a force before they even start
playing.

You need to be aware of building momentum and keeping it.
So why do many guys struggle getting momentum? Well, they
give up just before momentum kicks in. Momentum takes
effort and hard work.

It’s like pushing a car uphill, but once it goes downhill it gets
momentum and it doesn’t need you to push anymore. Most
people stop before they get to the downhill.

The second mistake is not following that car downhill,
because remember once the car gets to the bottom it’s going
to need a push and you better be there to give the push it
needs.

                        OceanofPDF.com
                            74


Law 74 - Write Out Your Goals Every
                day


Every day write down your goals. Do it in the morning when
you get up and then again at night before you go to bed. The
reason we do it twice is that we remind our subconscious
mind that we need to take action to make our dreams a
reality.

Don’t type your goals on a computer. Take a piece of paper or
a notebook and write down your goals with a pen. When you
write down your goals it has a more powerful effect.

Make your goals very big. Make your goals so big that they
inspire you to do whatever it takes to turn them into reality.

Make your goals so big that people think you are not serious.
The problem with most goals is that they are too small. Most
people aim too low and then when they reach that goal they
realize how small they have been playing.

Go big and even if you do fail you will have gone way past your
initial expectations. You are thinking about building a great
life and the way you think will be the one thing that
determines how successful you are.No great things have ever
been achieved by people who were thinking small.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             75


            Law 75 - Keep It Simple


Most of the time the simple approach is the best. Simplicity is
conducive to action. It gets you moving. When things look
complicated people tend to procrastinate and not take action.

We live in a world where people like to talk and make simple
ideas complex, and by doing that they don’t have to take
action. This is a form of procrastination. Don’t fall in this
trap. Keep it simple.

Want to start a business? Get a product and sell it. Simple.

Wanna lose weight, eat less, eat clean and exercise. Simple.

Want to be more successful. Fix your mindset. Simple.

Don’t over complicate things. Yes, I get it some things seem
overwhelming and hard. And yes I get it, success is hard.
However, break your tasks down into smaller pieces and start
executing on every small piece.

Think about success as being a big wall. You need to take one
brick and put it down on the foundation. Then you put down
the next brick and the next. Before you know it you have a
wall.

                      OceanofPDF.com
                            76


                Law 76 - Visualize


You become what you consistently think. When Conor
McGregor won his world title he said in an interview that he
saw it happening in his mind first.

Long before he was a champion and he was still doing his
plumbing job and trying to make it as a fighter he was already
visualizing his future. He said that he used to visualize
everything that later came into reality. He used to talk about
things like they already happened and people didn’t take him
seriously. He also said that you need to visualize that the
thing you want already happened.

There is a lot of crap out there about the “secret” and other
money-making scams. This gave visualization a bad
reputation. The thing that the secret gets wrong is that they
left out a big part of the visualization practice. You need to
visualize your future and do it as regularly as possible.
However, you need to combine that visualization with
relentless execution and hard work. That is how you turn
dreams into reality.

                    OceanofPDF.com
                             77


 Law 77 - Frame Reality In Your Favor


Imagine your brain being a TV of your experience in the world
and you are watching this TV in your mind. Behind that is
your conscious mind that controls the camera and decides
what you see on TV.

Let’s take a look at how framing works in our minds. Let’s say
you lose your job, your frame could be that this is the end of
your life and now you will be unhappy. The result is you
become depressed, start drinking and you start sabotaging
your own life by letting this frame dominate your life.

But what if we change the frame in the same situation? For
example, you lost your job, but your frame is that this is a
great opportunity for you to start a new life, do the things you
always wanted to do, and live life on your own terms.

With this positive frame, you now have the energy to look for
a new job, or start a business and take control.

Another example of framing is dating. You are in a bar and
your frame is that no girl would talk with you because “I’m
not good looking.” The result is you never talk to a girl. But
what if you change the frame to ” I’m unique and girls find
me interesting and attractive”. If you place this frame on your
interactions you will start talking to more women and get
more dating success.

The mind is powerful and if you use it in the right way you can
have all the success you want. Unfortunately, most men have
no knowledge of their own minds and the methods available
to make themselves a better and more efficient man. Framing
is one of the very subtle but powerful tools you can use to
improve your life.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             78


              Law 78 - Never Quit


Don’t quit or settle in any situation. This goes for negative or
positive situations. Let’s say you start making a lot of money
for the first time, don’t quit and think its enough. Invest your
money, reset and start again. Build on that success.

The same goes for failure. If you failed and things don’t work
out, don’t just stop and say its over. Dust yourself off,
reorientate yourself and start again.

Setbacks should be expected as part of your mission, just
overcome them. Quitting is not an option.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                            79


   Law 79 - Don't Settle and Become
              Vulnerable


Don’t get comfortable when things improve or you start
seeing a bit of success. When things are going well we tend to
get seduced by the good periods we are going through.

This is a common trap of the middle class. People get
comfortable in the middle class and settle. They stop pushing
and stop going after their goals. They look around at ways to
spend their money on things they don’t need. They take their
eyes off the ball and get complacent. Unfortunately, this is
when bad things happen.

People settle for what they have when they can get so much
more. Don’t just settle and think this is as good as it gets.

Don’t fall for this trap. Remember the law of momentum.
When things start going well and you get momentum, don’t
stop. You need to keep the momentum and use it to keep on
reaching more goals and aiming even higher. Don’t expose
yourself and become vulnerable. Don’t become a victim of a
false sense of security.

                     OceanofPDF.com
                            80


Law 80 - Live Free, Do and Say What
             You Want


Living free is something most men want but very few get to
actually live. They get stuck in jobs they hate, live with bad
relationships, and just live lives they didn’t picture
themselves living.

To avoid this trap you need to think very carefully when you
make big decisions that could influence the amount of
freedom you will have. This is all relative of course but you
have to decide how much of your freedom are you willing to
give up.

When it comes to choices like a relationship and job ask
yourself how much of your autonomy are you giving up.

For example, this doesn’t necessarily mean don’t go into a
relationship, but it means you have to evaluate the type of
person you date or build a relationship with. Is this person
compatible with your view of the world?

Same with your career, job or profession. How much are you
giving up? Do you need to go to university or should you build
a business? These are all examples of the type of questions
you need to ask yourself.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              81


  Law 81 - Maintain Your Composure


When the people around you lose their minds and act fearful.
Stay calm and composed. In life, bad things will happen and
you will be in situations where the majority of people will go
into their fight or flight reactions and totally lose their minds.

It’s your job to stay calm and control your breathing. Don’t let
the situation overwhelm you. They key is in telling yourself to
breathe calmly and deeply. Then ask yourself what is the best
way to deal with whatever is happening?

Bad things happen and people will look for someone to lead
them. You need to be that person.

                        OceanofPDF.com
                              82


         Law 82 - Believe in Yourself


Call it belief or call it faith or whatever you want. But you have
to believe in yourself so much that it almost seems ridiculous
to other people. You need this faith to push through the
obstacles and challenges that will come your way.

The path to success will have many ups and downs. Many give
up because they don’t have a strong enough belief in
themselves and in their purpose.

You have to believe in yourself and your purpose and you have
to reinforce this belief every day using self-talk and
affirmations to create a mindset that is constantly being
loaded with self-belief. You have to believe in yourself first
before anyone else is going to believe in you.

                        OceanofPDF.com
                             83


        Law 83 - Go On the Offense


Whatever you are doing you need to go on the offense.
Building a business? Want to meet a new girlfriend or wife?
Want to build a body you can be proud of?Want to transform
your life?Want to get your money right? You need to go on the
offense.

Defense is not going to move you forward fast enough. Let’s
look at money, for example, you are not going to save
yourself rich, you need to increase your income.

If you want to meet women then you need to go out and talk
to women, they are not going to come to you.

If you want to build a powerful body you need to lift heavy, do
cardio and eat right consistently.

These examples are all about going on the offense and
changing the game. Defense is static and the offense is
dynamic.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                              84


        Law 84 - You Are a Business


Forget about one day starting a business. Sure starting
businesses are great, but that’s just one aspect of you.

You are a business. You have to manage yourself like a
business, everything you do must be aligned with your long-
term goals. You must manage and maintain yourself as a
wealth building machine.

Your jobs, companies and everything else is at the service of
you. You are a business, it’s not something that exists outside
you. It is you. You are the CEO of your life. You need to control
everything about you and make the right decisions
accordingly. You manage you.

                        OceanofPDF.com
                             85


    Law 85 - Your Mindset Is Your
Software You Load Up Into Your Brain


Learn to consciously choose the constant messages that
dominate your mind. It’s your responsibility to constantly
reinforce all the ideas that create a powerful mindset.

How do you do it? Well, one way would be to read this book
every month to make sure you drill these ideas deep into your
unconscious mind, or get the audiobook and listen to it every
day when you are driving to work or running on the treadmill.

You have to find all the tools and resources that will keep on
improving and refining your mindset. It’s not just a thing that
you do once and forget it. You have to maintain your mindset
by consistently working on it and keeping out all the negative
noise the world throws at you.

You have to be consistent in the way you go to the gym or
consistently eat healthily. Your mindset is the same.
Affirmations, visualization, and reading are all ways to
constantly fill your mind with the ammunition to become
unstoppable.

                    OceanofPDF.com
                            86


    Law 86 - Stop Wondering About
           Things, Find Out


Don’t get into the habit of just accepting that you don’t know
stuff. Sure you don’t need to know everything but you need to
know a lot about your environment. For example, do you
know 99% of all the functions of your computer? If you don’t
then you are wasting the power of this incredible tool.

When you read a book do you stop to search for the word you
don’t understand? If you don’t then you are being lazy and
don’t have a full understanding of the ideas being shared with
you?

Do you know how your taxes work? You don’t have to know
everything but get a broad understanding of it. You want to be
as clued up as you possibly can be. Get a book like “Taxes for
dummies” and get a broad understanding.

Do you know CPR?Do you know how to change a wheel? Do
you know how to defend yourself? Do you know how to use a
pistol and a rifle? Stop wondering and find out about things.
Don’t be caught with your pants around your ankles.

                      OceanofPDF.com
                             87


     Law 87 - Understand Cause and
                 Effect


Nothing that happens in the universe is an accident.
Everything works on the concept of cause and effect.

Something or someone causes something else. For example,
an earthquake happens under the sea and the effect is a
tsunami. A lot of these cause and effect events are out of our
control. However, we can put into motion many purposeful
cause and effect actions in our own lives if we choose to do so.

One example is I want to lose weight. So I consistently eat
healthily and exercise. The effect is I lose weight.

Or I want to save money, so I consistently save my salary or
profits. The effect is I am slowly getting rich.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                             88


    Law 88 - Choose To Be a Warrior

  “You only choose once to be a warrior or be ordinary”-
  Carlos Castaneda

You are a warrior, the fact that you reading this book means
that you have already made that choice. You have made the
choice to fight in this life.

I’m sure you have already figured out that our planet is a
rough place and nothing comes for free. There are dangers,
obstacles, good and bad, light and dark.

Being human means that a lot of suffering is involved.
Suffering is part of life. How much suffering you experience is
a choice.

When you choose to be a warrior you choose to not just accept
all the crap the planet throws at you. It means you have
decided to fight back and make the best possible life for
yourself on earth. It means you are aware that you must adopt
the warrior mindset to excel and reach your full potential.

You must live by a code and break that code for no-one. You
also know that your code includes becoming the best version
of yourself. This means your goal in life is success in
everything you do. You also know that failure will sometimes
happen and teach you what you did wrong so you can be
better.

You accept that as a warrior you will have to improve
everything. Your body and mind will have to be continuously
improved, strengthened and maintained. This is a lifelong
process. It never ends.

You know that if you give up you will start getting weak and
surrender to death. You will never give up until your last
breath. You have accepted death and that’s why you fight with
everything you have to make the most of your time on this
planet. You will fight and leave everything on the table once
its all done.

Strength, Courage, Loyalty, Honor, Mastery. This is the way
of the Masculine Man.



……………………………………………………………………………………


                      OceanofPDF.com
                      Conclusion

  “It is not because things are difficult that we do not dare,
  it is because we do not dare that they are difficult.” -
  Seneca

Most people in life don’t change. It’s not because they can’t
change its just because they decided not to.

There are usually 2 reasons for this. One is usually arrogance.
These people think they have the game figured out and don’t
need any of this “Self-Help” stuff.

The second group of people realizes that they have been going
in the wrong direction in life. Unfortunately, they do nothing
about it. They don’t do anything about it because they think it
will be hard to change or that it’s too late.

The reality of this planet is that its almost never too late to
start living a better life. When you figure out you are going in
the wrong direction then you need to find all the tools you can
to change. Tools like this book and all the other resources
available.

These resources mean nothing if you don’t make the
conscious choice to change. It’s our moral responsibility to
learn and find wisdom. With wisdom, we can improve, make
better choices and make an impact on the planet.

However, when you make the choice to improve your own
condition on this planet you will need one specific
ingredient.That ingredient is courage. Courage is something
that is sometimes talked about but people seem to forget how
seldom people make the choice to be courageous and take the
hard road of developing oneself as a lifelong path.

On your road of learning and improving you will find that it’s
hard and challenging. You will be tested in ways that you did
not expect. But through all the challenges you will transform
yourself into someone extraordinary.

Thank You For Reading this the 88 Laws Of The Masculine
Mindset.I hope you found something in this book that sparks
the greatness inside you.

                       OceanofPDF.com
                      Thank You


I want to thank you for reading this book! I sincerely hope
that you received value from it!


If you received value from this book, I want to ask you for a
favour. Would you be kind enough to leave a review for this
book on Amazon?
Get My New Book Alpha Mindset Today!
https://www.amazon.com/Alpha-Mindset-Self-Confidence-
Overcome-Relationships-ebook/dp/B093XZ63B9/


Follow  me   on       Twitter:   Follow    me    on    Twitter:
@Masculineminds




Ó Copyright 2018 by John Winters - All rights reserved.
   This document is geared towards providing exact and
reliable information in regards to the topic and issue covered.
The publication is sold with the idea that the publisher is not
required to render accounting, officially permitted, or
otherwise, qualified services. If advice is necessary, legal or
professional, a practiced individual in the profession should
be ordered.
   - From a Declaration of Principles which was accepted and
approved equally by a Committee of the American Bar
Association and a Committee of Publishers and Associations.
   In no way is it legal to reproduce, duplicate, or transmit
any part of this document in either electronic means or in
printed format. Recording of this publication is strictly
prohibited and any storage of this document is not allowed
unless with written permission from the publisher. All rights
reserved.
    The information provided herein is stated to be truthful
and consistent, in that any liability, in terms of inattention or
otherwise, by any usage or abuse of any policies, processes, or
directions contained within is the solitary and utter
responsibility of the recipient reader. Under no circumstances
will any legal responsibility or blame be held against the
publisher for any reparation, damages, or monetary loss due
to the information herein, either directly or indirectly.
    Respective authors own all copyrights not held by the
publisher.
    The information herein is offered for informational
purposes solely, and is universal as so. The presentation of
the information is without contract or any type of guarantee
assurance.
    The trademarks that are used are without any consent, and
the publication of the trademark is without permission or
backing by the trademark owner. All trademarks and brands
within this book are for clarifying purposes only and are the
owned by the owners themselves, not affiliated with this
document.

                        OceanofPDF.com
