one actually is Context 7. This one is awesome for getting up-to-date docs from 39:58 like GitHub from like Hermes agents GitHub so they they can see specifically 40:04 the docs of
how to get set up. you just need some sort of context layer to lay to loop in the best practices and 40:10 up-to-date docs um for setting up these agents. And kind of like one
final 40:16 recommendation would be the XMCP. So Twitter released their own MCP. And I 40:22 find so many amazing setups on Twitter for OpenClaw and Hermes agents that there's many
times I just want to use 40:28 that context for setting up an agent uh for a given task. And you could actually use this, give this to your quad code or 40:35 give this to your uh
codeex and have it um use this context to help help you set 40:40 things up. Um or you could use all of them too. So I mean is there any downside to using 40:46 all of them? Um no
I I use all of them. Um and so 40:51 like maybe even in here when you look at my telegram u you might notice oh I 40:56 guess it's it's I didn't ask it to to pull in up-to-date
context. Mine has skills already built in place to be able 41:03 to like set these things up just because I do it so much. But in general, like the more the marrier. Like context
is 41:10 key. And um I like to like have sub agents spawn. I'll tell Codeex like hey 41:17 or Claude Code, hey spawn five sub agents. uh one sub agent for perplexity, one for exo,
one for context 7, one for 41:24 fire crawl, one for um XMCP because I like to pull from different resources 41:31 and then those all come back to the main agent and um we get the
best practices. 41:37 So that's how I do it. Cool. 41:42 Let's see. Okay, so this here is the I should have ran this in the terminal 41:48 below, but I'll go ahead. I'll I'll just
run it in this terminal. And what we're going to do here is do that. Run claude. 41:58 You just like spin up multiple terminals. Yeah, 42:03 you can. Oh, wait. Let me see. Um,
okay. I think I just copy this here. So, okay. 42:13 Oh, command not found. Okay. I I'll debug this later. Um, this 42:20 is also why this is mainly why I use the Orgo MCP. I'm
just like I let my agent 42:25 do all the work. Um, actually you could also come here into the playground and say install cloud code into this 42:32 computer. Um, and just have our
agent do it because I I don't I'm I don't want to 42:37 debug what's going on in the terminal right now. So then just have this agent do it um and do it that way. But yeah, 42:45
once you have it set up from here, like I can now ask my Telegram agent. Um, so 42:52 I'll I'll stop this here. You can just imagine, you know, one that's done your 42:57 agent
setup and I'll start a new chat and I'll ask like how many Orgo VMs do I 43:04 have in my workspaces? And my orgo claw 43:11 uh is able to actually manage all of my customers
agents from you know just this 43:19 one agent and it can upgrade fix things on the fly you know and 43:26 all from one spot anywhere I'm at. Um, if I if I get an email from a
customer 43:31 that uh something broke, we can just send off an agent uh send off a message 43:37 to Orgo Claw and have it go fix it. Um, 43:42 boom. You can see here 27 Orgo VMs
across your workspaces, all 27 shows running 43:49 and then it dives in onto all the different customers and all their agents. Um so last point that I want to Watchdogs,
Observability, and Reliability 43:57 make around getting these things set up is the uh watchdocs. So the gateways are what 44:06 make these agents connect to a platform like
Telegram or a platform like 44:12 WhatsApp. And sometimes these gateways crash. OpenClaw has a lot of gateway 44:18 issues in my experience. Hermes is a lot better. Um, and so a
key here is you 44:23 want to make sure that you set up a um, watchdog. You could literally just tell 44:28 your agent set up a watchdog for whenever a gateway crashes that it auto
restores it. Um, that's super important 44:37 just from, you know, reliability perspective. A second thing is you want to make sure that you have some layer of 44:45 observability
or alerts. So, I have agents email me. If I set up your agent, 44:52 your Mia agent, and Mia has an email, Mi Mia's Mia emails me from her email when 45:01 her cron job breaks or
her skill failed or something happened and I'm alerted 45:07 about it and I can go in and then debug it and fix it. um which is super 45:12 valuable cuz once again for your
customer you don't want them to have to worry about like doing all this 45:18 themselves. So, um, make it as simple and easy as possible, handle everything 45:24 tiptoail. And
yeah, I think I guess like the big Closing Thoughts on the Solopreneur Era 45:30 takeaway here is it is hard to set up cloud code even like people are like 45:35 cloud code is is
going to kill openclaw or cloud code's going to kill Hermes agent and in a general sense it's 45:41 getting better at doing a lot of these general things but to be able to go in
and create a specific agent for a 45:47 specific industry and person and have it tailored to their workflow it's like 45:53 you're underestimating how much value that is and you
can really create a lucrative business by yourself. Uh you 46:00 and your agent building other agents for other businesses. Um yeah, and I think it's an amazing time to be a
soloreneur 46:07 for this. You can and you will. So Nick, thank you 46:12 for sharing the playbook for how to build a oneperson 46:18 agent business. uh sharing how to actually do
it um in such a clear way. I 46:26 love chatting with you because you're you give the sauce, but you also explain it super clearly. Nick is a criminally 46:33 underfollowed account
on on social media. Uh he you know, he's gaining some 46:39 some followers, but I think he can be I think he needs to be bigger. So, I'll include links for where to find Nick 46:45
uh in the show notes in the description. And uh Nick, I'll see you in a few weeks in San Francisco and let's have a let's 46:52 have some coffee and have a good time. Thank you,
Greg. Always a pleasure. Thank you so much. And um I I hope to 47:00 Yeah, we're going to see you soon. We're going to get some coffee. We're going to we're going to do some sip
time. 47:05 We're going to do some IRL sipin time, which is my favorite. It's there's there's nothing like it, you know? Like 47:12 I actually have been trying to cut down on my
like Zoom meetings and stuff like 47:17 that. It's just there's not there it is. There's nothing like being in person, sharing ideas, sipping and uh 47:27 and figuring out what
what we can be building in in in a time like this 47:32 because there's so much. And sometimes the hardest part is figuring out the right idea, the right time, the right 47:38
playbook, the right steps, the right order. And uh this has been helpful, Nick, and and definitely got my c 47:45 creative juices flowing. So I'm sure others are very thankful as
well. So thank you, Nick. And I will see you next 47:51 time. Thank you, Greg. Talk soon. All From Greg Isenberg Introduction 0:00 Gemini 3.0 has changed everything about how
websites are being built. And if you use it correctly, you can turn viewers 0:06 into buyers better than anybody else. I've sold websites and systems for thousands of dollars to
clients. And 0:12 while most AI website tutorials just show you a pretty front end, I'm going to show you my exact system for building 0:18 and deploying gorgeous websites that
turn viewers into buyers in minutes with 0:23 integrated AI systems so you can get more clients, save time, and make more money. And for those of you who don't 0:28 know, I'm Jack
Roberts. I built and sold a top 100 UK startup with over 60,000 customers. [music] And now I run a 0:35 sevenfigure AI automation business. So if you haven't already, grab that
coffee and let's dive straight in. Gemini 3.0 0:42 is amazing. It can build amazing websites. It can build incredible AI systems. But if you combine it with 0:49 growth systems,
you can get outlier results. We want a beautiful website 0:55 that converts viewers into buyers, will accelerate your business, that you can even sell to clients. It's easy to
build 1:02 and deploy, and you can even leverage AI in it, which I'm going to show you how to do in this video. And to make this magic happen, we're going to use the The SITE
Framework 1:07 four-step site framework that's going to take it from ideas into a gorgeous website that kicks butts and gets S – Strategy 1:14 results. S stands for strategy. Now,
a lot of people just skip this step and go straight into creating, but that kind of 1:20 sets up a false economy. When I've sold websites to businesses, one of the things it really
crushes isn't the design, even though that is now amazing 1:27 and makes a huge difference. It's the fact that it solves the business problem. So, just take a second to think 1:32
about this before we jump in. What boat we're rowing in is more important than how hard we row. And when we combine 1:38 that with Gemini's capabilities, we kick butt. So,
strategy, first thing to do is to choose the overall purpose of the 1:44 website in your endeavor, your business. Okay. Is it behind handle number one which is cold traffic you're
sending 1:50 there? If it is then we primarily want to give them a lot of value and do some kind of diagnostic to warm them up, add 1:57 more value and get them done off and on. If
it's warm traffic, we're looking again to add value but progress more 2:02 towards getting some kind of commitment on the page. And if it's outbound traffic, in other words, you're
reaching 2:07 out to businesses and saying, "Hey, I want to work with you. We can outbound stuff." It's more important to build 2:12 trust. And if you in doubt, always treat
basically I had this conversation with Alex Moses who had a really interesting 2:18 chat about this that if you treat warm traffic like cold traffic, they'll still convert better
anyway. But it does change how we position the whole 2:24 website. And we need to know this. Now ask yourself one question. What is the 2:30 viewer's state? And by that I mean
we've got to ask ourselves a couple of things. What are their three biggest problems? 2:36 Cuz we're going to want to address that in the actual website design and copy. And it all
blends together nicely. We 2:42 have the design and then we have the content to achieve the thing we want to get. What do they already believe before 2:48 clicking on our website?
What are they unsure about and what made them click? And once you've thought about those 2:53 questions with a beautiful cup of coffee, it's time to go to the second step in our
site framework, which stands I – Interface 2:58 for interface. So, at this point, the first thing you want to do in the interface section is to get a mood board 3:04 of things that
we think are cool or look great. The best site that I found for this right now is Dribble. you go to 3:09 dribble, you can pretty much type in any keyword and find gorgeous
websites that you like that. The other one that you 3:14 can use from more of a code perspective, and I'm going to show you some interesting things in this video that you've
probably never seen before in 3:20 terms of a design that's going to blow your mind and how you can replicate designs in a crazy crazy way. So, you 3:26 can check out CodeP. And
then another great one is Mobin, which gives you great designs, graphics, dashboards, whatever sort of stuff that you need. 3:31 Mobin itself, guys, I'm not sure if I pronounced
this correctly to be fair, is pretty freaking wild. Like look at this. 3:37 They've got cord in there. They've got all these different AI assistants. They've got it for mobile.
They've got it for web. You can literally toggle 3:43 here to go from iOS to web. And just take a moment to kind of browse around the shop and see what you like. So you 3:48 can
check out by categories, but obviously in dribble you just enter any information that you want to. And then 3:53 of course we've got Google AI Studio. And I'm also going to show
you by the way guys how integrating AI into the 3:58 website itself will actually drive way more sales and drive your business forward because that was one of the core features I
found when I saw my 80001. 4:06 So, what are we going to look at first? Well, I think in this video, what would be cool, and I've deliberately not 4:11 thought of something ahead
of time cuz I wanted it to be organic and interesting. There's one website that I've seen that I think looks really cool, which is base 4:18 10, which we're using for our text to
speech startup glider, and I like the kind of applelesque feel of it. I like 4:24 the dotted line feel of it. I think it's a really nice, interesting website. So, I was thinking
for this video, we could do one on something like dental 4:30 agencies. So maybe we want to work with dentists and our business helps them implement systems to scale their 4:36
business which is a lot of AI work in that. So let's say for example we like this and I want to kind of use these dotted lines because it's a kind of 4:43 systematic way of doing
things. So I want to make it look like it is a system replicable way of doing it. So first 4:48 thing you do is just grab the mood board and then you're going to come over to
Google Studio and start pasting in. A 4:54 cool little hack that you can do as well, by the way, is head over to Canva, open up a whiteboard like this, okay? 5:00 And paste it in
and then add a little bit of text underneath it. So, you come down here and you say something like 5:06 hero section, okay? And we're going to make that bold and probably a bit
larger. So, we're both going to give it the actual information and we're also 5:13 going to write it down here. So, we can be specific about what we like about each bit and where
you want to do what. So, again, Gemini is really clever. Um, 5:20 but again, you need to give it some specifics. So, I like the hero section of that. I think this is decent. Okay,
5:26 beautiful. I think this is all we need from base 10. So, we'll say goodbye. Then you're going to come around and have a little look. So, if I just come down here and I said
website, let's see 5:33 if we've got anything interesting. And you're pretty much just going to have a little look around and browse and find websites that you think are really
5:38 interesting. So, here for example, let's just say we wanted to look at finance cuz they typically have really gorgeous, engaging websites. I love the style of 5:46 this. I
think this is so nice. I mean, if you look at this, guys, it's pretty insane. And then we have one click copy 5:52 it which is fantastic. You can come down and have a look and see
whatever you want to do. This one really caught my 5:59 eye here. This Gemini. So I I'm going to do guys is actually copy and grab that. So let's come down and just uh steal it.
6:05 Steal it with pride as I say for design inspiration for the purposes of this which is really cool. So come back over 6:10 to UI elements. And you can see you've got everything
here. So let's come down and just copy that. Fantastic. Come back 6:16 over and throw this one over here. Beautiful. And then we come back over to Google Studio. And again, we
throw that one in there. And then let's give this a 6:22 bit of a section, which is I do want hero section. And actually, I'm going to amend this to say this is how I like 6:28
dotted line and monochromatic. Actually, instead of monochromatic, if 6:34 we just come down and give it a specific piece of feedback, like I know this can seem a little bit like
it takes a bit of 6:39 time, but you'll save a lot more time in general cuz we want to oneshot this as possible. And then let's also add this in for testimonials cuz I think this
is 6:45 gorgeous. So you pretty much like like a dream list just grab any design components that you want. Now they do 6:51 follow a very there are there's a structure to creating
websites that does convert and I'm going to cover on this outside of the design point cuz that's 6:57 so important to understand. So come over here and then we're just going to put
this in here and then we are just going to say design. We come over to Google AI 7:04 Studio, drop that core image in, and then what we're going to say here is just simply
testimonials. Testimonials. 7:12 Beautiful. All right. Nice. Now we've got this. We've kind of paired the feedback to the image. I'm going to add 7:18 a bit of a background thing
in here just so that it's clear on the dotted lines of Canva what we're looking at. Send 7:24 this all the way back. Awesome. And then let's make this white so it looks nice and
tasty. You'll know 7:31 when you watch my videos like I tend to get stuck down these design rabbit holes. Like I did it in my community. It was really funny. So in the classroom
7:37 for example, I went down I had to have this like dotted connected artwork cuz I was like I spent the whole day doing it 7:42 and I was like I get these I don't know I get
these things sometimes I'm like I just I just think design is just so 7:48 important to do. It genuinely is. That was one of the biggest piece of feedbacks I got my first tech
business 7:54 actually was that the website was so good and crisp people just assumed like I had one guy said oh dude you must have 8:00 had like millions in funding and I was like
dude we didn't we actually didn't we bootstrapped it to start so it was 8:06 really funny we get that feedback it that's a difference that it makes so we've got the mood boards
which is 8:11 awesome now we're going to come and give it a prompt and we're going to establish first of all the design aesthetic the 8:17 sections and then after that we're going
to look at the second part which is going to be the copy. And what we want to do is a kind of easy three-part 8:24 structure prompt. So, for example, we might say something like,
"Hey, I would like you to design for me a website for 8:30 an agency that helps dentists scale their business using proven AI systems." 8:36 Okay, beautiful. And then we want to
give it some information about the kind of stylistic guidelines and then 8:41 reference to this. And then we can add more specifics at the bottom. So, I'm going to come and grab
from here some 8:47 stylistic guidelines. I thought it'd be really handy and interesting. So, let me open up these and we're going to need that conversion blueprint in a second.
8:54 So, we've got like a design elements cheat sheet. So, these are things that we can add in if we want to, right? Like solo animated background. I think that 9:00 is really
cool. So, let's add this one here. Let's go for soft animated background light beam texture. Bam. So, if I want to add this in, I'm just going 9:06 to come over to this uh style to
add in these components. 9:15 Bam. And then we got the things like intentional micro interactions, everything reacts. I think that'd be a cool one for us to have as well. Let's
9:20 add that in there. Yeah. So, after we've added this one here as well, you can basically just go through and decide what you would like. I'll show a link 9:26 down below so you
can grab it and have fun with it. Just different kind of components that you want like depth layers, strong typography, whatever you 9:32 want to. Then the next thing we want to do
is give it like an effect or a style to replicate. So we could do it in 9:37 anything we want to. So you can decide is there like a particular business that you like the look of
that you want to 9:42 replicate. I think Vel's really nice. So if I just said in the style of Vel. I think that is gorgeous. Let's come back 9:47 over to over here. And then I'm
going to put this one here which is fantastic. Come back. And then at the bottom I've 9:53 got these like design specific prompts that you can use which is like anything you want
designwise to change that you 9:58 think are going to be great. just come down here, grab the ones that you want to add an amand pretty much go and 10:04 you're going to come back
over here. The next thing we need to do is add the structure of it. So before we do that 10:09 though, let me just specify here. I'm going to say I would like you to use the
reference images that I provided and copy that style first and foremost. Then 10:16 use the below for additional context in your design. Beautiful. Okay, we have this one here. And
then what I'm going 10:22 to say at the bottom of structure is I'm going to have I would like you to use this website structure. 10:29 Okay. Now, what we're going to have here at
the top is simply this. You're going to start with a hook at the top. You're 10:35 going to have a promise of value, a value proposition. Underneath that, the next section you're
going to have then 10:41 is going to be a essentially is going to be the value proposition. More details. So, two or three things about the value proposition. Then we're going to
have 10:47 proof. And then we're going to have a CTA at the bottom of the screen. Now, when you do this, this is all going to be influenced by what you did in the 10:54 first
section, which is going to be the strategy section. Then when we're happy with that, we are effectively going to shoot this off and let it build and 10:59 create some magic for us
in the background. And whilst Gemini is building that, I'm also going to show you a new hack that you might not have seen before. Now, let's say, for 11:06 example, there's a
website that you like. Um, I'll tell you, a really good one is this one, which is designjoy.co. 11:12 So, this is a really beautiful website. I think it's great. It looks gorgeous.
Let's say that you find a website that 11:17 you want to replicate. Exactly. Now, most people will say, "All you're going to do is take a screenshot, right? Look, 11:22 come here."
And it'll take a screenshot and blah blah blah. But what if I told you that basically and you'll know this but a website is basically HTML and you 11:30 can download a website. So
what you can do is you basically come over and grab one of 11:35 these HTML downloaders. So if I just say HTML grab from website um like very 11:43 poorly explained but you get the
idea. You can go to view page source. So see and download any code from any website. 11:48 Find a website that you like, grab it, come back over, throw it in the URL. um click on
view source code and this will 11:54 be the exact code that you've got for that website. So we're going to come down and then we will do I believe it's stylized code like so and
then we've got 12:01 all of this. So simultaneously what I'm going to do guys is come down and show you a secondary strategy that if you've 12:07 just got one that you really like
and like dude I just want to replicate that website. You can do something like this. So what I'll do once I've copied that is 12:14 come over to AI Studio.google.com/apps. I'm
going to open a new one. I'm going to say I would like you to create for me a design agency website using the below 12:21 HTML code. make it gorgeous and beautiful. Bam. Okay.
Enter the HTML code and then we accompany that with 12:28 different screenshots. So, you basically come down, you screenshot, you come back over, you throw that in, and then you
12:34 just screenshot a few different elements that you like, that you think are decent. And I'll show you how close you 12:39 can actually get with this. It is pretty wild, but
you'll see for yourself in a second. Now, I'd never recommend that 12:45 you just lift and shift websites. It's not a good way to do this. But what is really helpful though when
you're doing 12:51 things like this is that there's lots of things that you want to innovate on and be different on, but website structures 12:56 that convert viewers into buyers
and certain design principles, you don't need to actually innovate on all that 13:01 stuff. So, this is now working and pipping and popping in the background. Let's come back over
to the initial one and see how we're getting on. It's 13:08 developing it and it shouldn't take too long and then we'll get our very first examples to look at. Beautiful guys. So,
we have dentist scale. Did you realize 13:15 fill your chairs on autopilot? So, it's got some animations in the background that needs to loop properly. So, that be 13:21 something
that we need to be specific about the operating system for your growth. This is really lovely. I love 13:26 this. It's kind of like you can see as I hover over it, there's a kind
of orange hue that appears there. Amazing. And 13:32 then this is really cool. That kind of soft fade and connect collaborate launch measure impact. So, we can see some cool stuff
here. And then we got feedback 13:39 scale your practice. And we are ready to rock and roll. But how are we getting on that with the design joy thing? So, 13:45 check this out.
You're not going to believe this, guys. Look at this. You'd be you'd be remiss for thinking it's the 13:50 same thing. Look at this. It's not exactly the same, but to be honest
with 13:55 you, just off that, like, and it's it's even got the same logos, which is crazy. It's got these things coming down here. 14:01 One subscription, many possibilities. It's
literally copying that verbatim. And even down to this, we can copy it like this. It is actually freaking wild 14:08 how effective that is. And you can just copy the HTML like this
to get a good basis if you want to follow a website 14:13 structure more closely. The next thing I want to do, guys, is grab this eightstep conversion blueprint, which effectively
is all the stuff we want on a high 14:20 converting uh page. Basically, to turn viewers into buyers. So, what I come down here is grab this right here. And 14:26 as you can see,
we've got the value proposition, the proof, the fraction, CTA, the follow-up, the debug. So, I'm going to come back over then and give it 14:32 one nice tasty follow-up prompt over
here. So, once we've refined the design, you're going to go back and forth. Now, typically speaking, it's better to try 14:38 and what we call oneshot the whole thing. in the sense
that you get it to design somewhere near like 90 95% of the 14:45 design that you want on your first go because it's easy to a amend. Now, good thing to bear in mind with Gemini
here 14:50 with all these things is that it can take what's existing and change it. But if you're asking it to reconstitute the 14:56 entire design every time, it just gets stuck
down these rabbit holes even though it is incredibly effective. So, I 15:01 would rather you hit a fresh blank slate if you feel the design's not getting to the right point. Now,
the next thing we do in this page realistically is look at 15:08 the copy. So, you want to change the copy to something that's actually going to resonate. So, we want some kind of
hook at the top. We want some kind of 15:14 proof and credibility that's kind of easy to look at. And this brings us nicely onto the T section in our site's T – Text 15:20
framework, which is text. When we're very happy with the design and the visuality of it, we're going to design 15:26 this website perfectly. We're going to have at the very
beginning a hook to grab their attention. There's different 15:31 methodologies. Effectively, we can use things like a frustration hook, like 15:36 dentists frustrated that you're
not getting any clients even though you're working very hard every week. Or we 15:42 could have an offer hook, which is dentist, you know, dentist, we'll get you 20 new leads in 30
days or you pay 15:48 $0. So, some kind of hook, a little explainer about what we do, ideally a visual image or something in the 15:54 background. Then, we want a little flirtation
with the logos and credibility. Then we go straight into 16:00 the value proposition which is price is what you pay, value is what we get. And you explain that in a bit of detail.
16:05 Then after that, we kind of want to go through a bit more proof so people know what we're doing and how it works. This could be testimonials from clients, 16:11 include
videos, include images. So for example, if you look at this thing I had a while ago on um my community, this is 16:21 full of testimonials of people who've been in the community,
either got their first clients, got their first automations, you know, it goes on and on 16:26 and got all these videos. We're very blessed to have as many success stories as we do
because what we do talk about works, you basically fill that stuff 16:32 into the page to kick some butt. Now, once you've done that and you've got the kind of text nailed down,
the last thing 16:38 we want is a what we call a clear next step because you've made a great promise that they care about. You've shown 16:45 you've explained it in detail. You've
shown them why you're credible. And the next thing is a very clear next step. And this is where we get to in our E – Engine 16:51 framework, the E, which stands for engine. An
engine is the enhancement side of the website. How you take it 16:58 from this to this. Now, when I saw my last one for 8,000, one of the core criticalities I had in there was a
17:04 chatbot that would take the email and book leads. Now, what's really cool is that you can integrate any AI component 17:11 you want to into the website. It's crazy. And I'm
going to show you how you can do two of those right now. The first 17:16 one is going to be a chatbot. Now, to do that, we're going to head over to the wonderful 11labs.io. So,
let's this bad 17:22 boy up. Let's log in and kick some butt. So you can build agents. They can be voice agents. They can be conversational 17:30 agents. It could be anything that
you want to. So the first thing we do is come and sign up, which is fine. On the left hand side, let me just come 17:36 through. We're going to go with a let's go with a business
agent, which is great. We'll do healthcare and medical, 17:41 and we'll do customer. Let's dolinguling. That's fantastic. Call this one, Maria. 17:47 And then our website could be
something like, I don't know, monzo.com. Your main goal is to provide a helpful 17:54 experience to the client and to book a 50inute discovery call with Jack, our head of growth.
Awesome. Okay. Chat only 18:02 or audio? We can be either. We're just going to do chat only for this, but it could be audio. In fact, you know what? Let's do it. Let's make a
speak. I'm 18:07 going to come down. Okay. It needs a https. Okay. Beautiful. And then create agent. Okay. Did I not do this? That is 18:14 crazy. Oh, I added one t too many for a
British person. That's pretty wild. 18:19 Okay, that's loading up. And once we've done this guys, we can just basically configure it to do anything that we want 18:25 to. So I'm
going to show you two different versions that we can do on this. So there's a new agent configuration that let you scribe in 18:31 real time. Redesigned agent config and a new
widget which is cool. So on this you've got a personality that you can 18:38 work through. You've got different voices. Like this is Eric for example. He can play some different
bits and pieces. You can decide which one that 18:44 you want to. That's what it sounds like. Is riches [snorts] complain. Okay, we're going to go with Stokes cuz Stokes is great.
But basically, you can 18:50 pick any of these ones that you want to if you wanted to have an auditory like, you know, make an audio thing. And then 18:56 we can have the language.
So, we would prefer to have UK English, I believe, which they don't have. So, we'll just go 19:01 with unless they have United Kingdom. They don't seem to. That's interesting.
Yeah, we'll just go with the States 19:06 then. That's fine. We'll come down here or [snorts] we can do Italian. I wonder if actually, my apologies. The accent is 19:13 actually
driven by the voice. That's just English is always going to be English there. So, we have all this stuff, which is cool. And we just click 19:18 on save. when you basically
customize this and go through everything that you want to and then you can come down to over here and I think it is under 19:24 preview agent then you can have a conversation with
it to do whatever you want to. So you can expect and connect it to all of your apps which is very 19:31 cool. And to do that you come over to workflow you can build workflows you
can do knowledge bases. So you can give it like all the information add documents 19:38 policy documents things about your website. So if you say hey Jack what do you charge for
XYZ? It can tell you that 19:44 or like can you give me examples about companies that you work with before. It can do all of that stuff. Then it has 19:49 tools. These tools can
then do things like end the conversation transfer to agent. So, if it's having a like chat 19:55 with somebody and it's not getting enough, it can loop you in and do some really
cool things. Then, under widget section, you can actually embed this. 20:01 So, what we're going to do here is copy this. We're going to come down here and I think we can save and
we're ready to rock and roll. You can come back over to 20:06 Gemini. And then you can save this. I would like you to embed this chat widget into the website. Okay. So once you've
20:13 done all the customization, obviously we cover a lot more about that in the community, all the kind of cool AI tech and how you level it up. But just to 20:19 give you TDR of
your respect for your time here, you can just then copy this embed code which is HTML which will call 20:25 11 Labs and then install it within the website. Meaning now that you
have this gorgeous website which loops, we've got 20:31 all the animations. We've got everything that we need and then we're going to have this additional chat functionality in
there too. Now while this is 20:36 rendering in the background, I think actually this very second I think it's just complete. It has Oh my gosh, guys. 20:42 Check this out. So, if
I come up and I full screen this, let's have a look. You're now going to have this in the bottom right hand corner, which means 20:47 that you can do things again. It it could be
chat only. It could be anything you want. We accept and we could just 20:53 send a message. If it was chat only, it would just be like a chatbot. So, I'd be like, "Hey man, how's
it going?" Boom. 20:58 And then I'll stop responding to me and we'll have a full conversation. And then we equip this with agent tools. We can connect this to automations, capture
21:05 emails, book calls, whatever we want to. So, this is very cool. But let's say that one of the CTAs that went on the website wasn't just to book a call, but 21:12 what we
actually wanted to do is give them like an order or something free. One of the things we can do is build a 21:17 questionnaire into it. So check this out. I would like you to
develop for me a questionnaire embedded at the bottom 21:22 of the form. The value proposition of this is find out how much money your 21:27 dental practice is losing every month
by not having email systems installed. 21:33 You're going to ask them four questions. Their email, their number, which is optional, their name. You're going to ask them what their
average value per 21:39 lead is and then how many email subscribers they have and then how many emails they send per week and then click 21:45 submit. Okay. Then what we're going
to do is actually grab uh an AIP software. 21:51 So we're going to head over to go high level. Now Gohigh Level is amazing because it lets us build loads of 21:56 automation
sequences out and emails and texts and loads of cool stuff like this. So for example, what I can do with 22:02 GoHigh Level is send the information over there to anything. I can
send it over to NAN. I can send it over to 22:08 anything I possibly imagine. You're going to come on the left hand side right here. Going to come down to this. And then when
you're in your account on 22:14 the left hand side, you're just going to come down here to automation. And then when you're on automation, you're going to open up a brand new
automation very 22:20 quickly, which is correct workflow, start from scratch. And all we're going to add into this is a uh web hook. And 22:26 web hooks just connect things to
other things. Because what we do here, guys, is grab the information from our app and 22:32 then bring it over. So, we come over here. We're going to add a new trigger. We're going
to go for web hook, inbound web hook. And it will give us a web hook 22:38 address. And we copy them. And then you're going to come back over to our design, which is over here, I
believe. 22:44 I'm going to say send the information to this web hook. And you paste it in. Oops, not quite that one. Let's come in 22:50 and make sure we get the correct web hook
address from go high level, which is here. Right. So, let's come down. All 22:56 right. Now, we've copied it. Now, we can enter it in and we're ready to go. Send this prompt off.
And then we're going to have a form that will then connect to go 23:02 high level. And then we can look at how we publish it, deploy it, and kick some butt. And just like that, we
now have an 23:07 update. So let's check out what the form looks like. We're going to scroll down and have a look. And we should see a form on the page. Wow, look at this. How
23:14 much money are you losing? So in reality, we would want to change the design of this, but obviously this is 23:19 just to get it live and rocking and rolling. So I say, hey,
I'll say my practice name is Dr. Teeth. Okay, Dr. 23:26 Teeth. We'll say it's teeth atoutlow. Phone number, we'll leave it. Value per lead is going to be something like $500. 23:33
Uh and then total email subscribers, we'll have 10, two, three. 10,000. Email sent per week will be one. Then 23:39 calculate my loss revenue. Click on this. It's calculating for
us. Calculation is complete. Awesome. Now, 23:45 if we head over to go high level here and I come down, I click on fact fetch 23:50 sample requests. Just one second. It looks like
it hasn't sent that. Let's just confirm this one more time. Grab 23:56 this. If I just say trigger uh mapping reference. Let's see if we can reference payload. Nothing's come up
yet. So, what 24:02 we do is come back over to our scenario real quick and then we'll just give it that feedback that didn't come through. Hey there, dude. You just need to make
24:08 sure that you send that information through to the below web hook. When I complete the form, it doesn't actually happen. Also, give the form a white 24:14 background so it
stands out a bit more and make it top to bottom rather than having questions left to right. And then we give it feedback and send that back 24:20 off. And then we can try that one
more time. So, now we've redone this. I've entered some information and we click on calculate by loss revenue and we'll send 24:26 this one back off and then we just come straight
back over to go high level and then we should see the reference page 24:31 load. So we come down here and as you can see it's pulled through successfully and then we've got all of
the data. So 24:36 we save that trigger and then the next thing that we do in go high level guys is we've created the contact which is 24:42 awesome. Uh one moment. So what we need
to do first of all is add a field. So we got a field we select on email like so 24:49 and all you're going to do is come down here click on this button here find the hook and type
email. So this is saying 24:55 look Jack you've asked me to create an email where am I grabbing that email from? We're saying look you're grabbing it from the web hook. Okay then
we add 25:01 another field and the other field might be something like name right so could be full name and again we just select the 25:08 inbound web hook trigger and then we it
