don't need. You can do the same thing simply by right-clicking in this upper top menu and unchecking everything except for the top two options, library and develop. That's all that
most professional photographers use within Lightroom. And so this really cleans up your workspace. History & Snapshots Next, you'll notice that this area in Lightroom is divided
into a few sections. First is the left panel over here. And the main things that you should know in this area are your history, which is where you're going to see any changes that
you made to your image. and quickly undo steps. So, if I were to make some adjustments here and then want to go backward at any point, I could always go back in my history and even
hover over it and it's going to show the different things that I did. Another helpful tool is snapshots. This is really great for saving different versions of your edit to compare
later. So, say I have this version here that I take a quick snapshot of and it's the warm version and I also want to test out a bit cooler version of the image to see maybe do I
like that better. I can take a snapshot and then very quickly toggle back and forth between the different versions. This is especially helpful, I find, for new photographers or
when you're looking to elevate or update your style because you can try out and test different things to see what works best. And then last, you have your presets in your
collections areas. And these are something that you might end up using later, but for the purposes of learning editing, history and snapshots are all you really need to know for
now. On the bottom, you'll find Selecting your photo a filmrip view of all of your images. And this is where you can select the image that you want to work on. And it's also handy
for batch editing multiple photos at a time when doing client work to be efficient. On the right side over Editing area intro here is where all the editing happens. And this is
also where our different editing panels live with all of the different options, which we'll go through now. We're going to start by Basics Panel - How to get a clean basic edit
coming into this photo over here, which I've already reset back to its original raw format without any adjustments applied to it. We'll go ahead and come into our basics panel
here, going and toggling this down. And remember, we're going to go back to our simple three-step editing workflow, focusing on our basic adjustments first, then layering on
stylization, retouching, and refinements. So, our goal in this part of Lightroom is really just to level out the tones of the photo and get that basic color, brightness, and tonal
adjustment. So, we're going to start by coming into the tone area here and just leveling out our brightness. And as you can see, this image is a bit dark. I've intentionally shot
it this way in order to retain some of the whites and highlight detail of this image. So, one Common mistake with Exposure (and what to do instead) of the things that we don't want
to do is it's a common mistake to come and just crank that exposure slider until the skin is looking good. And we think like, oh, that's our goal, make the skin look good. But the
reason this is a mistake is if you look up here in our histogram, we're losing then data in our highlights. And this defeats the whole purpose and reason of why I shot it to dark.
So we will add just a little bit of brightness into the image. But we're not wanting to do most of our brightening in exposure. Instead, a more refined way of doing this is to come
into our shadows and lift here, which lifts in those midtones, especially those lower mid tones of our image to just brighten that up a bit. And then we can come into our
highlights area here. And then finally, we can come down into our whites and our blacks. And this controls the purest white and black point of your image. This is also a way that
you can add a bit of contrast into your image as opposed to the contrast slider. It gives you a little bit more control over what you're doing here. So, we can bring down our
blacks. And as you can see, it's going to mainly impact those darkest areas of the photo, like right in here on his jacket. So, we want to be careful that we don't go too dark How
to use the Histogram as a confidence check with that. And so, as a quick confidence check, I always like to look at my histogram. And we have this area up here that you might be
familiar with because it's similar to the histogram on your camera. And I really recommend paying attention to this as a new photographer. This is essentially all the pixel data in
your photo laid out on a graph from your blacks to your shadows to your midtones all the way to your whites. And if you click these little triangles up here, these are your
clipping indicators that show what areas in your photo are either blowing out to appear white or are clipping in the blacks. So if we were to come down here and just go too far
with our blacks, you can see now it's clipping our image. Or if we were to come and just bring that exposure up, it doesn't even look like it's that bright on her face. But you can
see we then start to lose detail in the image. Why this is so great is a lot of times we can't trust our monitor. Even you seeing this photo on YouTube is going to be so different
than how it actually looks when I'm editing. But even monitor to monitor, you don't always know what's going on in your image. So this will give you a real quick confidence check
to make sure all of the tones in your image are safe. So we'll go ahead and turn these back off. But this is essentially what I'm looking for when I'm making these microbasic
adjustments to my photo. I'm really looking to just kind of level it out and get it looking decent. Lastly is the contrast slider. And you could add a touch of contrast here if
needed. Typically, I might add a little tiny bit of contrast in if the image is looking a little flat, but I tend to not do a lot of contrast adjustments here because I like to do
it a little bit later when I get into stylization where you can do it in a more controlled way. Remember, the goal is to just simply balance out the image and get it neutral. Next,
we'll even out White Balance - How to even out the color tones our color. So, we'll come into our white balance area here, which is going to affect the overall color of the photo.
And that's controlled by these two sliders. our temperature, which controls the warmth or coolness, and our tint, pushing it towards magenta or those greens. You can also
doubleclick on the name of any of these settings to reset the sliders. So, when it comes to white balance, there's really no oneizefits-all here. The goal is really to get the
image looking neutral and natural and avoiding color extremes. For instance, you don't want your skin tones to look overly orange, blue, green, or pink. Or like what I like to tell
my students is we don't want our clients to look like they came out of an episode of Frogg. One quick shortcut to get good color is to use this eyropper tool and click on a neutral
gray or white part of your photo. This will typically get it pretty good and then you can adjust to taste from there. It doesn't have to be perfect at this point because we will be
stylizing. You just want to get the overall image to be generally balanced. Texture vs Clarity - What to do for better skin tones Next, let's come down into our presence area and
we have texture and clarity. A common mistake I see a lot of portrait photographers make is they'll use clarity to either make their image look a little bit more punchy or to
soften the skin. And the reason that I do not recommend the clarity tool for portrait photographers or really any photography of people is because it really negatively impacts the
skin tones. And if we we bring it down to soften uh at the extreme, you can really see what it's doing to your photo. It's giving kind of an 80s mall Vaseline on the lens glamour
portrait vibe. And that's not what we want. Instead, texture is actually a newer version of clarity that's less harsh, and it can be used to refine the fine details of the image.
So, if you click on her hair here, you can really see that if we drag up that tool, it's a lot less harsh, and it's protecting the integrity of the image while increasing the fine
detail. And you can also do it the opposite way to soften detail without it being an overly heavy-handed thing. Really, for all these tools, we want to keep it pretty subtle, but I
always recommend texture over clarity. And I actually have a full video breaking this down that I'll link up for anybody that's interested in diving a bit deeper. And then last is
dehaze. And this is really for images that have a bit of haze to them to add back in contrast. This is a very strong adjustment. And it's rarely something that I would use, let
alone use across a full image. If I am using it, it will usually be done with the masking tool and just apply to a specific part of the image. And then finally, we have our
Vibrance vs Saturation - What to know as a photographer of people vibrance and saturation sliders. Both of these control the intensity of the color in our photo. And the thing
that's most important for us to know as photographers of people is that vibrance is a newer version of saturation that's less aggressive in the skin tones. So, this is really the
slider we want to use. Saturation is more for landscape photographers. So, if I want to give my colors a little bit of extra pop, I'll go ahead and do that using vibrance. Notice
though that this is a global adjustment, meaning it's applied equally across all of the colors in your image, but you will have a chance to edit individual colors in stylization
stage. So, that's the basics panel. The final part of my basic adjustment, not within this panel, is actually down under lens One setting I have checked ON for every photo
corrections. Come into the profile tab and check mark on enable profile corrections. This is something I do on all of my images and it gets rid of any lens distortion or
vignetting. And what's great about this is you can see here it's pulled in my lens profile data. So, Lightroom is very smart. It already knows the exact lens you used and how to
correct for it. And that's why I always have this checked on. In fact, I've actually built this into an import preset that I use to apply to all of my images upon import. It
includes some of the basic adjustments that I make across all of my images to just help save me time. I share this import preset for free. So, if you want to speed up your workflow
and try it on your own photos, you can find it in the description below. So, that's our clean edit. And if we come over into our snapshots and take a quick snapshot, we can see our
before and our after. Now, just a quick check-in. If you're feeling overwhelmed at all, I recommend re-watching that part through again with your own image until it feels more
familiar. You really want to master the basic edits first because this is the foundation that your stylization will build upon. And if you're ready to keep going, let's do it. STEP
2 - Stylizing your photos Part two of our process is my favorite. And that's stylization. This is where you're going to add your specialized color adjustments and give your image
your own signature touch. This is also where things get a bit more advanced. So, if you want to go a lot deeper and really take your editing to the next level, I invite you to also
check out my signature course, shoot toit. This is where I teach my full stepbystep system, including how to shoot with your final edit in mind, which is the game changer for
creating consistent standout work that clients love. It's really the course I wish existed when I was starting out. Link is below if you want to take a peek inside. But for today,
I really just wanted you to come away feeling a bit more confident and excited to dig into Lightroom. So, for this beginner's guide, we're going to go a bit quicker through each of
these tools. That way we can touch on each of them to give you a comprehensive overview and a little taste of what each of these do and how to use them. First is our tone How to
use Tone Curves in Lightroom curve. Possibly my favorite tool in Lightroom. And there's two ways this can be used. First is to brighten or darken specific tones within our image.
And if you look here on the curve, you'll notice this shadow of our histogram in the background that corresponds with the histogram up top. This line here lays across this
histogram representing our blacks all the way up to our white points of our image. This allows us to lift up or down very specifically brightening or darkening specific tones of
our image. And in order to use this tool, we can start by placing points along this line. And these points are essentially locking those different tones in place. And then we're
able to drag up or down on different parts to just adjust those parts of the image. So, for example, if I wanted to brighten up a bit more in those midtones and add a bit more
contrast, I can keep my blacks a little bit lower, keep some contrast in those shadows, but brighten up right in the mid tones with this nice pretty U shape. And this is
maintaining our whites while just boosting the brightness a bit. and keeping things locked in where I want them to be. Another thing that you could do is bring up the black point.
And this creates a bit of a lifted shadow look. I'll overdo uh all of these things more than I would actually do so that you can really see. And what this does is it allows you to
go into what's called the RGB or color curves, which are these little red, green, and blue options up top. And we can go in and do the same thing along the line here and pop some
color into that shadow. Now, this is just one way that I love using this tool. And if I toggle this on and off, you can kind of see that subtle stylization. But, as you can
imagine, the possibilities are endless. Curves is one of those tools that a lot of photographers avoid just because it can feel really foreign at first. But I promise you, it is
worth learning. And I actually have a full video where I go even deeper on this tool, including how to use it to color your images and create polished filmic looks. I'll link it
below. Next, we'll come into the How to use the Color Mixer for color adjustments color mixer. This lets you edit specific colors in your image, specifically by their hue,
saturation, and luminance. So, if you want to tweak your greens or your blues of your image to get a very specific color tone or you want to make subtle skin tone adjustments or
say fix a sunburnt client, this is where that happens within Lightroom, your hue is going to shift the actual color tone. So, if we wanted to shift the skin tones, those will live
typically in those oranges. And we can really dial in a very specific skin tone. Saturation is going to control how bold that color is. Our luminance is going to control how light
or dark that color appears in our image, if we want to brighten or darken specific colors. This is another tool that I have a full video sharing more advanced tips on. I'll link it
below if you want to dive even deeper. Next is How to use Color Grading in Lightroom color grading. This is awesome for adding subtle color into your shadows, midtones, and
highlights. And there are a lot of ways this can be used, but one of my favorite is simply adding a bit of warmth to the image. This can be used instead of the temperature slider,
which adds more of a global warmth across the full photo. By using the color grading tool, we can control very specifically where it's added. But beyond that, we could actually
control the specific color. So, for instance, if I wanted to add some color into the midtones of my image, a little bit of warmth, I can say by pulling this dot here, I want to
bring it more towards like these peachy oranges versus like maybe I want to go more of like a golden yellow tone. And you can dial in a very specific color. And once you find that
color, it can be a signature style that you do across all of your images. Once you have the color the way you like, hold down shift key to lock it in place. And then you can drag
up or down on this second little bar to control the saturation of that color. Again, this is just one simple application, but I recommend starting to play with this tool to mix up
your own unique looks. Moving down, these next panels are really more for retouching and refining stage. But there's one more important area that you'll want to know about for
stylizing your images, and Masking menu that is our masking menu. So far, all of the edits we've made apply across the full image, even if targeting specific tones and colors. If
those tones and colors are in the image, anywhere in it, when we're doing global adjustments, it's going to tweak them. The power of masking is that we can tell Lightroom only
change like say this specific corner of the photo or only a touch the people in the image. So this is one of my other favorite tools in Lightroom that is up there with curves
especially with the new AI masking which makes it a power tool. For instance, you can choose select subject here and instead of needing to painstakingly mask the subject yourself,
Lightroom creates a nearperfect mask, even capturing the hair and all. So, this allows me to then just adjust my subject. I can come in and just make tweaks just to the people of
the image. Or you can come up here, click, and say select subject again, rightclick, and invert your mask. And now you have a perfect mask of everything in your image except your
subject. This is really great when you're wanting to isolate different parts of your image for more of those specialized adjustments. I go very in depth on the masking tool inside
of shootedit and how it fits into my full workflow. But for a beginner friendly walkthrough, I also have a free YouTube tutorial where I share some of my absolute favorite tips for
using it on portraits. So here's a quick before and after. And here's actual the final version where I've fully stylized the image to taste. So that's our stylization tools. Next,
we'll move on STEP 3 - Retouching & Refining to stage three, which is retouching and refining our images. Next, let's come into our detail area. Under our Sharpening your photos in
the Detail panel sharpening menu, amount controls the amount of our sharpening. Radius controls the width or thickness of the sharpening. For instance, for fine details, you want a
smaller radius or for a more noticeable effect, you can dial it up. You really just don't want to overdo it here. Pro tip for us as portrait photographers is to hold alt or option
key while dragging this masking menu here. And I pretty much always do this. What it's doing is the areas that are white are the areas that are being sharpened. And as you drag
upward, you're choosing the areas to not have that sharpening applied to. This allows us to take it off of the areas such as skin so that the sharpening is only being added to the
edge detail. Next, let's come into our effects area. And I don't really use Effects panel this area much, but one notable tool is grain. And I actually like the look of Lightroom's
grain. So if you're wanting to add a bit of grain, this is also a stylistic thing, you can do so here. But one thing to keep in mind is you might want different grain for web
images than you do for print images. So if you are adding this, I really recommend keeping it subtle. You don't want to be cranking up the grain and having it on all of your final
client images. Next, let's Transform panel move into transform. And I don't use this on most of my images, but it is actually a really important tool to learn. And it's especially
helpful for backgrounds where you have buildings or architecture in them and lines that you might want to straighten or fix the distortion of to ensure that the perspective is
properly aligned. That's going to help make your images look more pro and intentional. Next, I want to Healing brush tool mention the healing brush tool, which is this little
eraser icon up here. If we come down into this menu, the healing brush is the one in the middle that looks like a little band-aid icon. And this is a great tool for removing
blemishes, dust spots, flyaways, or any distractions from your images. For example, if I were to come into this photo here, everything looks clean and goes right to our subject.
However, we have this dot over in the corner which is drawing our eyes away as a distraction. But with just one quick swipe of our healing brush tool, voila, it's gone. So, this is
a powerful tool for very quickly removing distractions from the background of your photos. Another tool that I love in this area is Generative remove tool the remove tool, which is
the one on the left. This intelligently removes distractions from your image. Or for more complex removals, you can also check out the generative AI option by checking on this box.
For instance, there's this little thing in the back of her dress. And if we wanted to remove it, we could just come outline it, click remove, and AI does actually a really good
job. I actually have a full video that shares some of the other ways that I use this tool on a recent wedding shoot, including removing a full row of wedding guests. So, I'll link
that up to check out after this. Work through those three core steps, basic adjustments, stylizing, and then your retouching and refinements on your next edit, and let me know how
it goes. And if you really my full shooting and editing system want to learn the full process of making images your clients dream about, check out shootedit in the link below. The
real magic really starts before you even pick up your camera. So, my course is going to walk you through everything you need to know as a portrait or wedding photographer to build
a portfolio that's worthy of being published. You'll learn how to master natural lighting, how to plan your shoots, and photograph like an art director so that when you get to the
editing part, it becomes faster, easier, and a hundred times more consistent. It's really everything I wish I knew when I was trying to stand out in a sea of talented photographers
in the beginning. So, look for the link below to check it out. And as always, happy editing. I will catch you in the next Intro 0:00 Today I'm going to show you my process 0:01 for
editing portraits using only 0:03 Lightroom Classic. Editing is subjective 0:05 and everybody has their own style. This 0:07 is just the way I like to approach my 0:09 portraits,
but if you do it differently, 0:10 that's completely fine. For reference, 0:12 I'm using Lightroom Classic version 15. 0:15 Here's the before of the photo that 0:17 we'll be
working on today, and here's 0:19 the after. 0:22 Let's get into it. I have my develop Develop Panel 0:24 panel organized in the order that I 0:26 prefer to edit in. If you want to
0:27 customize your own, you can rightclick 0:29 on any of the tabs and select customize 0:32 develop panel and reorganize them 0:35 whichever way best suits your workflow. Lens
Corrections 0:38 Okay. First, under lens corrections, 0:40 we're going to remove chromatic 0:41 aberrations, which will help with some 0:44 color fringing, and enable profile 0:46
corrections, which will help with things 0:48 like distortion and vignetting. Under 0:52 lens profile, if your lens doesn't 0:54 automatically appear, you can just go in 0:56 here
and select your lens. I took this Crop 0:59 photo vertically and I plan on posting 1:02 it in a vertical format. So, I'm going 1:04 to go to the crop tool and I'm going to 1:06 go
under aspect and I'm going to select 1:09 16x9, 1:11 but it's actually going to be a 9 by6. 1:14 I'm going to hold option on Mac so all 1:16 four corners come in at the same time
as 1:19 I crop it. 1:21 And I'm just going to find 1:25 where I like it to sit. 1:30 And once I found that, I'll just hit 1:32 enter. 1:35 If your goal is to post to your 1:36
Instagram feed and you want to take up 1:38 the most amount of real estate on the 1:39 screen, I'd recommend cropping your 1:41 photo to a 4x5 aspect ratio. Moving down Transform
1:44 to the transform tab. I'm going to 1:46 straighten the image by using the rotate 1:50 slider. But first, I'm just going to 1:52 check constraint crop. And then I'm just 1:55
going to adjust this slightly 1:59 to 0.2. White Balance 2:03 The first thing I like to do in the 2:04 basic tab is to correct my white 2:06 balance. Focusing on the skin tones. I
2:09 want a neutral and natural look. And 2:11 right now it is a little warm. So, I'm 2:13 going to cool it down using the temp 2:15 slider. 2:18 I'm going to shift this down to
about 2:19 5400. 2:23 And I'm going to keep the tint slider 2:25 shifted towards the magenta, but I'm 2:28 going to lower it to about + 5. 2:33 Just in case you're not familiar
with 2:35 the white balance sliders, the temp 2:38 slider goes from blue to orange and the 2:41 tint slider goes from green to magenta. Basic Adjustments 2:44 Once we got our white
balance set, I'm 2:46 going to go down to the tone area. And 2:48 I'm going to start with the white and 2:50 the blacks. And these will kind of 2:52 determine our brightest and
darkest 2:54 points. 2:56 So for the whites, I'm going to boost 2:58 them up to about plus 20. And if you 3:02 hold option while adjusting these 3:03 sliders, you can see where the
image 3:05 starts to clip. 3:09 And for the black, I'm going to bring it 3:11 down to about -5. Moving up, I'm going 3:16 to bring up the shadows. And this will 3:19 bring back a
lot of detail. 3:22 Um, that [music] was originally too 3:24 dark. And I'm going to lower the 3:27 highlights because as you can see some 3:29 of this looks a little too harsh. And
3:32 I'm going to bring that down 3:35 to about minus 50. 3:40 Once your tonal range is set, the 3:41 exposure slider adjusts the overall 3:43 brightness. I find it easier doing it
3:45 this way than chasing blown out 3:47 highlights or crushed shadows afterward. 3:50 I'm going to raise the exposure 3:53 plus one stop. 3:57 And I'm going to adjust the
contrast 4:00 slightly to + five. It might look a 4:03 little bit overexposed at the moment, 4:05 but once we get into masking, we're 4:07 going to make further adjustments. 4:08
[music] 4:10 This is the before and this is the after 4:12 so far. I'm going to close the basic tab Tone Curve & Contrast 4:15 for now, and I'm going to open up the 4:16 tone
curve. And if you're unfamiliar 4:18 with this, the top end here represents 4:21 your highlights, [music] 4:22 midtones, and the bottom corner being 4:25 your shadows. And I like
to make three 4:27 [music] points. 4:31 And I'm going to make a small scurve 4:34 just to subtly boost the [music] 4:35 contrast and give the photo a little bit 4:38 more of a
punch. 4:40 So, I'll bring down 4:43 the shadows 4:45 and I'll boost the highlights slightly. 4:52 And this little eye you can toggle on 4:54 and off to see individually the
changes 4:58 each panel has made. Okay, moving on 5:00 from the tone curve. I'm not going to 5:03 get into calibration, but I'm going to 5:04 go to color mixer. uh mainly focusing
on Colour Mixer 5:08 saturation and luminance. Saturation 5:11 being how strong a color is and 5:14 luminance being how bright or dark a 5:17 specific color is. I'm going to reduce
5:20 the yellows to -30. And I'm actually 5:24 going to reduce the saturation of greens 5:26 to about minus15. 5:29 And I'm going to darken the greens as 5:32 well by minus5. 5:36
I'm going to close up the color mixer 5:37 tab for now, but if I toggle it here, 5:40 you can see that the yellows and greens 5:42 have be have become less overpowering in 5:44 the
image. I'm going to open up color Colour Grading 5:47 grading. And because there is a lot of 5:48 yellow greens, I'm going to balance them 5:50 out by adding a little bit of blue
in 5:53 the shadows. 5:55 I'm going to choose a hue of 230. 5:58 And I'm going to hold shift and just 6:00 increase the saturation by 10. Detail 6:06 Under the detail tab, if you
wanted to 6:08 add a little bit of sharpening to your 6:09 image, you can hit option and using the 6:12 masking slider, you can see what exactly 6:16 it will be applied to. So, I
don't want 6:19 it applied to everything. So, I'll go 6:23 plus 90. And I'll just increase the 6:25 sharpening to about 60. 6:31 Closing the detail tab and opening Effects 6:33
effects. I'm going to add a very slight 6:37 vignette to just subtly draw your 6:40 attention to the subject. And I'll just 6:43 shift this down to -5. Masking 6:46 Now we can move
on to masking. This will 6:47 allow us to make adjustments to specific 6:49 parts of our photo without affecting 6:51 other areas. I'm going to go up and 6:54 select the masking
tool. And instead of 6:57 selecting the background directly, I'm 6:59 actually going to make a mask of the 7:00 entire person. 7:02 And I'm going to select invert to select 7:05
everything except the subject. 7:08 I'm going to lower the exposure slightly 7:10 to0.15. 7:14 And I'm going to lower the highlights to 7:16 about -50. 7:20 I'm going to scroll
down to clarity and 7:23 dehaze to add a little extra depth and 7:27 definition to the background. 7:29 So, I'm going to increase 7:32 the clarity to plus 7:36 10 and the dehaze to
7:40 + 5. 7:42 I'm going to create another mask and I'm 7:45 going to select the plus option here and 7:48 go select people person one and I'm 7:51 going to create another mask of
the 7:53 entire person. I'm going to lower the 7:56 highlights to get rid of some of those 7:59 bright spots. 8:01 And I'm just going to nudge the exposure 8:03 up just slightly
8:06 to make her pop against the dark 8:09 background. Next, I'm going to be 8:11 creating another mask for the eyes. So, 8:13 again, we're going to go to the masking 8:15 tool,
select plus, select pupil, select 8:19 person one, and instead [music] of 8:21 having entire person selected, I'm going 8:24 to go down to uh iris and pupil, and I'm 8:29 going to
create a mask. 8:31 I'm going to zoom in so I can have a 8:34 better idea. 8:36 I'm going to boost the exposure 8:40 to about plus 30 and 8:44 boost the whites to about + 20.
Lastly, 8:49 I'm going to adjust the skin by reducing 8:52 the texture and clarity slightly. I 8:54 don't want a super airbrush look, but 8:56 it's a way to soften the skin just
using 9:00 Lightroom Classic. So, I'll go create 9:02 another mask 9:04 plus select people person one. And this 9:08 time I'm going to select facial skin and 9:11 body skin and
create mask. 9:14 I'm going to scroll down where it says 9:17 texture, clarity, and dehaze. And I'm 9:20 going to reduce 9:22 the texture to about minus15 9:26 and the clarity 9:29
to about10. Outro 9:32 And here's the final result. 9:35 Links to all the gear that I use are 9:37 listed down below. If you found this 9:38 helpful, please consider subscribing
and 9:40 turning on the bell for future 9:42 notifications. Thanks for watching and 9:44 like always, I'll see you in the next 9:46 one. Intro - Supp everybody welcome to my first
ever Lightroom basics masterclass. I'm going to take you through every single panel in Lightroom today. So you know what everything does, how to use it. And more importantly, how I
use these features in order to get my professional level edits. So without further ado, let's jump into Lightroom. (dramatic music) (upbeat music) It's a freaking holster for your
camera. It took me 10 years to figure this out. Never get caught without your camera. Okay, so you wanna learn how to master Lightroom in the shortest amount of time possible. We
are going to handle that in today's video. By the time it's over we'll have you out there in the world, editing in no time. I'm going to need you to remember three things. This is
the process in which we edit photos and it's chronological correction, color, finishing. C, C, F, correction first, color second and then you finish the photo. So with that being
said let's literally just dive into Lightroom. So you've opened Lightroom, how do you import a photo? Well, you go to the Library tab right here at the top and then click Import
down at the bottom left. Once your photo is imported, click it and move on over to the Development tab. By the way, all the photos that I use for examples or demonstrations in this
video will be right down in the description for you to be able to download and edit right alongside me. So pop quiz, what is step number one? It is correction. This is correcting a
photograph so that it looks like a normal photograph. We're not gonna color it. We're not gonna make it look ready for Instagram but any photo that might be too bright we're gonna
fix it. Any photo that might be too dark, we're gonna fix it. We are going to fix it. Step one, correction, fixing it. So we have our presets on the left, if you have any. Our main
photo right here in the center, Basics and then all of our panels we're gonna be working with on the right. We're gonna be literally starting at the top and working down to the
bottom. The first one is the Basic tab because it was literally created for the correction phase. Again, do not color your photo in this tab even though it seems like it might be
easier. This tab is for correction. So the first thing we do is white balance our image. You can do that either by dragging this little marker onto a white part and clicking or
preferably I just do it by eye because sometimes it's not right. So there we go, white balanced. Moving on, we have this little block here called Tone. It's made up of exposure
which is the brightness of the image, contrast which is the overall contrast of the image, highlights which corrects the bright parts of your image, shadows which corrects the dark
parts of your image. The white slider sets the white point for your actual highlights. So you can see it, kind of goes hand in hand, same with blacks and shadows. So even though
there's no obvious problems with our image let's still go through and correct it. I'm gonna bring up the exposure just a little. The contrast slider adds contrast to your image,
but again, remember you're not stylizing. You're just correcting. So only use this on flat footage. Highlights, I will bring up a little bit. Don't wanna mess up the shirt. I'm
going to bring down the shadows make the background a tiny bit darker so that our subject stands out. This is before this is after. And even though it's minor, this is a very
decent correction. At the bottom of the Basics tab you'll see Texture, Clarity, Dehaze. Texture deals with the overall grit and sharpness of your image. Clarity deals with a very
contrasty like washed out image very popular in product photography and like military photos. And then Dehaze is a feature I actually don't use a ton. If you ever have a hazy
photo, Dehaze is a perfect tool to help kind of scale back the haze. Now, two of the sliders you really want to understand are Vibrance and Saturation because a lot of people
actually don't know what the difference is and it's massive. Saturation brings up all of the colors in your image. As you can see here, it's over-saturated but Vibrance brings up
all of the colors of your image while protecting skin tones up into a certain point. That means if there are people in your photograph and you're trying to get more color you
should be using Vibrance and not Saturation to avoid turning people into oompa loompas. While it's very, very minimal, this is a good correction for me. This image looks like it
looked with my eyes that day and now we are ready to move into color. Now, the reason we did not apply all of the effects and looks that we wanted in that previous section is
because we're gonna do it now. And we're gonna do it in a more advanced way, Tone Curve moving into Tone Curve. This is the section that most people probably clicked this video,
wanting to see. This Tone Curve gives people more problems than anyone in the world. And now it won't have to, this is a curve, as you can see I can draw points and make it into an
S make it into a backwards S or whatever you want but what do you do with it? What is it? And how, how does it work? The Tone Curve is just contrast. It is another word for
contrast on the right hand side, over here, we have our highlights you see, we bring them up, image gets brighter. We bring it down, It gets darker. So we're gonna raise our
highlights. And then we're gonna take the shadows which are on this side, the left side. And we're going to bring those down making the slight S looking curve on our chart. This is
the contrast we wanted. We did not wanna use slider up in Basic. This is the contrast we wanted. Also, if you're looking for that Matte film, look, you achieved that here. You find
the black point right here at the bottom and you bring it up off the ground and it gives you that old faded film look. This is how you achieve it. It's very simple. Now, how do I
actually use the S-curve? Well, there's more to it than just this. This is the Luma Curve, this white button. This is the light, the brightness and shadow contrast. Then next to
it, we have red, green and blue, ROYGBIV. Those are our primary colors and it can be super overwhelming because when you bring up the red as you can see it floods the red in all of
the highlights or it takes all the red out of the highlights leaving green. So what do we do here? And how do we get it to work? Well, it's hard and confusing and that's why
everyone's photos look different. But a good rule of thumb is to do an S-curve as well. So what I'm gonna do is bring up this side and bring down that side doing this slight S and
while it doesn't look good at first I'm gonna continue doing it till the green, the red and the blue, all roughly the exact same amount. And what it will do is as you can see start
to balance each other out. Now I can look, get the image and go it's got too much contrast, and it's now a little green. So I'm gonna come into the green tab and mess with the
green. There we go. Okay, now we're starting to get somewhere nice small movements. That looks good. Contrast looks good, color looks good. You can tell I'm getting am excited.
Tone Curve mastered. Let's move on to the next part of color, which is HSL also known as Hue, Saturation, and Luminance. Please take note of the red flowers in this image. That's
what I'm gonna be effecting to show you. The Hue is the actual hue of the color. HSL/Color The Saturation is the amount of color for that particular color. So as you can see, and
then Luminance is the brightness of that color. With all of this in mind this tab is where we start selectively editing colors. I don't like green. Okay, so let's go to Hue. And
here we could change green to make the leaves yellow. A lot of people do that or a darker green, which is cool. Still don't like green. So I'll come over to Saturation and I could
take all the green out. That's kinda cool. Now I'll go to Luminance and try that in green. I can make it, Oh, that's too brighter. Oh, I can make it really dark. I like that. Now
effectively with these three sliders I've been able to just affect the green without even having to worry about the rest of my image. Just so you know, if you have a picture of the
ocean or water, you would go into Hue and you would bring the water to more of an Aqua color. And then you could go into the Luminance and brighten it up. And all of a sudden
you've got blue-ass water. Okay and just like that my corrections are done in Hue, Saturation, and Luminance. And just to review remember Tone Curve is where you're gonna find the
