overall color and vibe of your image. And then HSL and color is really where you're gonna start honing in specific colors. But that is HSL. It's not scary. It's actually your best
friend when it comes to correcting and manipulating individual colors one at a time. Moving on, we have Split Toning. Split Toning gets its name from being able to tone which is
color, the shadows and the highlights separate. You are able to split them, applying one color to just the shadows and one color to just the highlights. A warmer tone for the
highlights and bring up saturation. And then I'm gonna do a blue or a complimentary color against the orange for the shadows. And as you see, as I bring up saturation it actually
brings in blue just to the shadows. Whereas highlights brings in orange just to the highlights, play with Split Toning. Don't expect to use it on every photo. I know I don't and
I'm not going to here either. Now we are almost done with the coloring process. There is only one more panel you need to know about. It's actually my favorite panel, the least
known about panel, and it's all the way at the bottom of Lightroom Classic only. Which is why I use Lightroom Classic. Calibration It's Camera Calibration. Now Camera Calibration
is meant to actually manipulate the mathematical camera color values inside your camera. I use it to my advantage all the time. It's so touchy that any little change changes
everything and any change in the slider, changes everything. So everything has to work together. This is how I use it and I'd recommend playing with it this way, too. I start by
taking the red to the right, red primary to the right. See, it kinda makes the image all green and weird. Then I take blue primary to the left and it starts balancing out my image.
And then I use the green slider to be able to hone in the tone of gold I want for the skin tone. We messed with saturation and things like that. But look at that change, that
change came from Camera Calibration. That golden skin tone came here, hidden in camera calibration, the one place most people don't look. And I wanted you to know that so that you
can apply it to your photos too. But as you can see, this is a very slept-on tool. This is the strongest tool in Lightroom, in my opinion and it's not available in Lightroom CC.
The orange is a little intense. So I'll bring down saturation just right here in orange but I'll be honest with you that I would post that to Instagram in a second. I love this
image. And that my friends brings us out of the coloring process. We have now corrected our image. We have now colored our image. The final step is to finish it. Now finishing it
doesn't mean just clicking, Save. Finishing it, is the little details. So back to our panels we have a panel right here called Detail. Lightroom sometimes sharpens images for you.
I usually leave sharpening down and noise reduction down. I don't turn on anything in here. The reason being Detail while sharpening sometimes looks really nice on Instagram. If
you print this photo, it will look horrible. So I don't sharpen things because in five years from now, the only version of the photo I'll probably have is the edited one. And I
wanna make sure if I print it, it still looks good. Next Lens Correction. Now this isn't needed for everybody. Chromatic aberrations are like weird color mistakes in your camera.
It doesn't happen a ton, but you can leave it on. Now a profile correction is actually something Lens Correction that's quite needed. There's something called barrel distortion in
lenses. I won't get into it, but check out my photo right here. This has taken on a lens 50 mil. And when I click Profile Correction, look at the edges of my image. Notice how they
stretch back out. They're just correcting themselves. That's what it really looked like but my lens accidentally compressed it in. Next is this weird transform crop function. Do
not crop your images here. We'll get to that in a second. And then praise Jesus, Hallelujah. Effects The last panel is Effects and the top effect is Vignetting. That's how you get
either that white circle or a dark circle around your image. It's just meant to like bring the attention into the subject. And then the last thing is grain. You can bring it all
the way up. If you wanna look like a vintage film. Again, I usually leave grain down because again if I print this in the future, I want it to look its best it can. Now we're up at
this top bar right here. And the first one is Cropping. Crop Tool This is where you wanna crop your image for Instagram or whatever you're doing. Instagram is a four by five crop.
So like that. And as you see, if you click, Oh it goes through a whole bunch of different ratios and cool guides you can use for your image. I'm gonna select this one here, line
everything up, click Done, moving on. Now, I'll zoom in on a face and use the Heal Tool and just kinda quick pimples and like, I'm not gonna try to make someone look different but
I will take away blemishes and any imperfections in the skin. Adjustment Brushes The other option you have while using the Brush tool is a Clone tool which actually replicates the
background. So like, I don't like these sticks right here. So I'll select those. And then I'll just clone flowers from over there. And all of a sudden the sticks are gone and I
have more beautiful flowers, all hail the Clone tool. Moving on, we have a Red Eye tool. This is just for, if you used flash and have a red eye problem, you just click the eyes
obviously. Next up we have this granulated filter tool. This is the same thing. These are all gonna be applying light and like more effects of what you did before, but selectively.
So you can bring them like from the top and bottom and change the colors change the intensity, change what they do. They're just completely draggable, super easy. Drag 'em where
you need, change the effects over here. You're good to go. The tool next to it is the exact same thing. It's just a Circle. A lot of times I will use this tool and invert it right
here in order to bring more light to a subject face. If it's kind of dark that way the eye goes straight to what you want them to look at. Now we have the Adjustment Brush tool
right here on the end. This is probably one of the most important tools to know. This is where you can paint in different corrections and the place I use it all the time is on the
eyes. The most important part of your photograph. I'm going to take the brush. I'm gonna click New. I'm gonna bring up the exposure a little and then using two fingers up and down.
You can change the size of the brush. Just gonna paint in, in the eye on both eyes right there. And then I can brighten the eye. I can change the color of the eye. I can add
sharpness to the eye. This is somewhere I will use sharpness, even saturation. Now the key here is to remember to make sure it looks natural. You don't want vampire eyes. It
happens to people all the time. They go like this thinking it looks cool. And then when you zoom out all of a sudden there's a Twilight four poster. Watch the eyes without the
brush and with the brush. It is subtle, but getting an extra little bit of light in the eyes makes all the difference trust me. Eyes are the window to the photograph. Well,
technically they're the window to the soul. Photographs have to have soul. So go through the eyes, make sure the eyes are nice. And ladies and gentlemen you have made it through
the basics masterclass. This is literally everything. This is every single part of Lightroom. So save this video to a playlist, send it to a friend send it to your own phone, but
reference it all the time. Because as you get more comfortable with Lightroom you'll start doing that thing you always do. And you'll forget about some of these incredible tools.
These tools are awesome. All of them. So use all of them. And with that everybody, I wanna thank you for joining me today. I hope this helped you into your journey with photo
editing and Lightroom. If it did please make sure to give it a big thumbs up and subscribe. I would love to have you here. And make film and photography related videos every week.
So click the subscribe, turn on the bells, but seriously keep your camera with you wherever you go. If you feel like you haven't been taking as many photos lately as you'd like
it's just because you don't have your camera with you. Bring it with you. You never know what you're gonna create and I'll see you guys next week. I love ya, peace. All From
sawyerhartman Intro 0:00 Today I'm going to show you my process 0:01 for editing portraits using only 0:03 Lightroom Classic. Editing is subjective 0:05 and everybody has their own
style. This 0:07 is just the way I like to approach my 0:09 portraits, but if you do it differently, 0:10 that's completely fine. For reference, 0:12 I'm using Lightroom Classic
version 15. 0:15 Here's the before of the photo that 0:17 we'll be working on today, and here's 0:19 the after. 0:22 Let's get into it. I have my develop Develop Panel 0:24 panel
organized in the order that I 0:26 prefer to edit in. If you want to 0:27 customize your own, you can rightclick 0:29 on any of the tabs and select customize 0:32 develop panel and
reorganize them 0:35 whichever way best suits your workflow. Lens Corrections 0:38 Okay. First, under lens corrections, 0:40 we're going to remove chromatic 0:41 aberrations, which
will help with some 0:44 color fringing, and enable profile 0:46 corrections, which will help with things 0:48 like distortion and vignetting. Under 0:52 lens profile, if your lens
doesn't 0:54 automatically appear, you can just go in 0:56 here and select your lens. I took this Crop 0:59 photo vertically and I plan on posting 1:02 it in a vertical format. So,
I'm going 1:04 to go to the crop tool and I'm going to 1:06 go under aspect and I'm going to select 1:09 16x9, 1:11 but it's actually going to be a 9 by6. 1:14 I'm going to hold
option on Mac so all 1:16 four corners come in at the same time as 1:19 I crop it. 1:21 And I'm just going to find 1:25 where I like it to sit. 1:30 And once I found that, I'll
just hit 1:32 enter. 1:35 If your goal is to post to your 1:36 Instagram feed and you want to take up 1:38 the most amount of real estate on the 1:39 screen, I'd recommend cropping
your 1:41 photo to a 4x5 aspect ratio. Moving down Transform 1:44 to the transform tab. I'm going to 1:46 straighten the image by using the rotate 1:50 slider. But first, I'm just
going to 1:52 check constraint crop. And then I'm just 1:55 going to adjust this slightly 1:59 to 0.2. White Balance 2:03 The first thing I like to do in the 2:04 basic tab is to
correct my white 2:06 balance. Focusing on the skin tones. I 2:09 want a neutral and natural look. And 2:11 right now it is a little warm. So, I'm 2:13 going to cool it down using
the temp 2:15 slider. 2:18 I'm going to shift this down to about 2:19 5400. 2:23 And I'm going to keep the tint slider 2:25 shifted towards the magenta, but I'm 2:28 going to lower
it to about + 5. 2:33 Just in case you're not familiar with 2:35 the white balance sliders, the temp 2:38 slider goes from blue to orange and the 2:41 tint slider goes from green
to magenta. Basic Adjustments 2:44 Once we got our white balance set, I'm 2:46 going to go down to the tone area. And 2:48 I'm going to start with the white and 2:50 the blacks.
And these will kind of 2:52 determine our brightest and darkest 2:54 points. 2:56 So for the whites, I'm going to boost 2:58 them up to about plus 20. And if you 3:02 hold option
while adjusting these 3:03 sliders, you can see where the image 3:05 starts to clip. 3:09 And for the black, I'm going to bring it 3:11 down to about -5. Moving up, I'm going 3:16
to bring up the shadows. And this will 3:19 bring back a lot of detail. 3:22 Um, that [music] was originally too 3:24 dark. And I'm going to lower the 3:27 highlights because as
you can see some 3:29 of this looks a little too harsh. And 3:32 I'm going to bring that down 3:35 to about minus 50. 3:40 Once your tonal range is set, the 3:41 exposure slider
adjusts the overall 3:43 brightness. I find it easier doing it 3:45 this way than chasing blown out 3:47 highlights or crushed shadows afterward. 3:50 I'm going to raise the
exposure 3:53 plus one stop. 3:57 And I'm going to adjust the contrast 4:00 slightly to + five. It might look a 4:03 little bit overexposed at the moment, 4:05 but once we get into
masking, we're 4:07 going to make further adjustments. 4:08 [music] 4:10 This is the before and this is the after 4:12 so far. I'm going to close the basic tab Tone Curve &
Contrast 4:15 for now, and I'm going to open up the 4:16 tone curve. And if you're unfamiliar 4:18 with this, the top end here represents 4:21 your highlights, [music] 4:22
midtones, and the bottom corner being 4:25 your shadows. And I like to make three 4:27 [music] points. 4:31 And I'm going to make a small scurve 4:34 just to subtly boost the
[music] 4:35 contrast and give the photo a little bit 4:38 more of a punch. 4:40 So, I'll bring down 4:43 the shadows 4:45 and I'll boost the highlights slightly. 4:52 And this
little eye you can toggle on 4:54 and off to see individually the changes 4:58 each panel has made. Okay, moving on 5:00 from the tone curve. I'm not going to 5:03 get into
calibration, but I'm going to 5:04 go to color mixer. uh mainly focusing on Colour Mixer 5:08 saturation and luminance. Saturation 5:11 being how strong a color is and 5:14
luminance being how bright or dark a 5:17 specific color is. I'm going to reduce 5:20 the yellows to -30. And I'm actually 5:24 going to reduce the saturation of greens 5:26 to
about minus15. 5:29 And I'm going to darken the greens as 5:32 well by minus5. 5:36 I'm going to close up the color mixer 5:37 tab for now, but if I toggle it here, 5:40 you can
see that the yellows and greens 5:42 have be have become less overpowering in 5:44 the image. I'm going to open up color Colour Grading 5:47 grading. And because there is a lot of
5:48 yellow greens, I'm going to balance them 5:50 out by adding a little bit of blue in 5:53 the shadows. 5:55 I'm going to choose a hue of 230. 5:58 And I'm going to hold shift
and just 6:00 increase the saturation by 10. Detail 6:06 Under the detail tab, if you wanted to 6:08 add a little bit of sharpening to your 6:09 image, you can hit option and using
the 6:12 masking slider, you can see what exactly 6:16 it will be applied to. So, I don't want 6:19 it applied to everything. So, I'll go 6:23 plus 90. And I'll just increase the
6:25 sharpening to about 60. 6:31 Closing the detail tab and opening Effects 6:33 effects. I'm going to add a very slight 6:37 vignette to just subtly draw your 6:40 attention to
the subject. And I'll just 6:43 shift this down to -5. Masking 6:46 Now we can move on to masking. This will 6:47 allow us to make adjustments to specific 6:49 parts of our photo
without affecting 6:51 other areas. I'm going to go up and 6:54 select the masking tool. And instead of 6:57 selecting the background directly, I'm 6:59 actually going to make a
mask of the 7:00 entire person. 7:02 And I'm going to select invert to select 7:05 everything except the subject. 7:08 I'm going to lower the exposure slightly 7:10 to0.15. 7:14
And I'm going to lower the highlights to 7:16 about -50. 7:20 I'm going to scroll down to clarity and 7:23 dehaze to add a little extra depth and 7:27 definition to the background.
7:29 So, I'm going to increase 7:32 the clarity to plus 7:36 10 and the dehaze to 7:40 + 5. 7:42 I'm going to create another mask and I'm 7:45 going to select the plus option here
and 7:48 go select people person one and I'm 7:51 going to create another mask of the 7:53 entire person. I'm going to lower the 7:56 highlights to get rid of some of those 7:59
bright spots. 8:01 And I'm just going to nudge the exposure 8:03 up just slightly 8:06 to make her pop against the dark 8:09 background. Next, I'm going to be 8:11 creating another
mask for the eyes. So, 8:13 again, we're going to go to the masking 8:15 tool, select plus, select pupil, select 8:19 person one, and instead [music] of 8:21 having entire person
selected, I'm going 8:24 to go down to uh iris and pupil, and I'm 8:29 going to create a mask. 8:31 I'm going to zoom in so I can have a 8:34 better idea. 8:36 I'm going to boost
the exposure 8:40 to about plus 30 and 8:44 boost the whites to about + 20. Lastly, 8:49 I'm going to adjust the skin by reducing 8:52 the texture and clarity slightly. I 8:54
don't want a super airbrush look, but 8:56 it's a way to soften the skin just using 9:00 Lightroom Classic. So, I'll go create 9:02 another mask 9:04 plus select people person one.
And this 9:08 time I'm going to select facial skin and 9:11 body skin and create mask. 9:14 I'm going to scroll down where it says 9:17 texture, clarity, and dehaze. And I'm 9:20
going to reduce 9:22 the texture to about minus15 9:26 and the clarity 9:29 to about10. Outro 9:32 And here's the final result. 9:35 Links to all the gear that I use are 9:37
listed down below. If you found this 9:38 helpful, please consider subscribing and 9:40 turning on the bell for future 9:42 notifications. Thanks for watching and 9:44 like always,
I'll see you in the next 9:46 one. All From Daniel Heppenstiel Adobe Lightroom Portrait photography What we're covering You're about to fall in love with Lightroom. If editing has
ever felt overwhelming, inconsistent, or like a total guessing game. Let's change that. In this beginner friendly tutorial, I'm going to walk you through step by step every panel
in Lightroom Classic so you actually understand what each lighter does and how to use them to create dreamy, professional looking portraits you're proud of. Let's dig in. First, if
you're new here, welcome. I am Chelsea Nicole, photographer, educator, and self-proclaimed editing nerd. I've spent over a decade photographing high-end weddings all over the world
with work featured in top magazines and blogs. And now I love helping other photographers like you build confidence in your edits and create images you absolutely love and clients
love too. Before we touch a Simple 3-step workflow for pro edits single slider, here's a quick peek at the editing workflow that I follow for every single session. Whether it be a
wedding, engagement shoot, family portraits, no matter what I'm editing, this simple three-step process keeps everything clean, fast, and consistent. I always start with first my
basic adjustments to clean up in the image and create a professional foundation, and then I'll build on that with stylization. And this is where you get to add in your unique style
and signature look to your photos. And then last is retouching and refinements. This is really just those final tweaks that add polish and create a portfolio level quality to your
images. I like to think of this process kind of like building a house. First, you are going to lay a solid foundation and then you get to add in personality and that final polish.
So, let's get started. If you're brand How to Import photos into Lightroom Classic new to Lightroom, the first thing we need to do is import our photos in. And side note, I'm using
what's called Lightroom Classic, also known as the desktop version, not CC. This is the version I recommend using if you want to do photography professionally. Step one is to make
sure we're on the library tab over here in the right upper hand menu. After we do that, we can come up to file, import photos and video. And then we'll choose the folder that the
images are in from this left-hand source menu. Or alternatively, if we cancel out of this, you can simply drag and drop the folder that your images are in into the center panel as
a quick shortcut. Once the import window pops up, there's a few most important things to check. First, you want to make sure you're not editing Important things to check before
Import from a memory card. The folder that you bring in should be on your computer or an external hard drive. So, if you haven't already, copy the images from your memory card over
to your computer before importing them in. Next, we want to make sure all photos is selected in this upper center area here. This tells Lightroom to pull in the full folder of
images. And then we want to select add, not copy or move. This keeps your photos in their original folders and prevents creating a bunch of unnecessary duplicate files. From there,
we can click import and boom, we're ready to Develop area walkthrough edit. Next, we'll click the develop tab in the upper right hand side of our workspace. This opens up the
develop menu, your main editing space and where all the magic happens. But before we start adjusting sliders, let's just get a quick lay of the land so that this area can start
feeling like a cozy home. Customizing your Lightroom workspace First, you may notice that your Lightroom menu looks a bit different than mine. And it's simply because I've
customized my Lightroom workspace to keep things clean and simple and hide any options that I don't need. You can do the same thing simply by right-clicking in this upper top menu
and unchecking everything except for the top two options, library and develop. That's all that most professional photographers use within Lightroom. And so this really cleans up
your workspace. History & Snapshots Next, you'll notice that this area in Lightroom is divided into a few sections. First is the left panel over here. And the main things that you
should know in this area are your history, which is where you're going to see any changes that you made to your image. and quickly undo steps. So, if I were to make some
adjustments here and then want to go backward at any point, I could always go back in my history and even hover over it and it's going to show the different things that I did.
Another helpful tool is snapshots. This is really great for saving different versions of your edit to compare later. So, say I have this version here that I take a quick snapshot
of and it's the warm version and I also want to test out a bit cooler version of the image to see maybe do I like that better. I can take a snapshot and then very quickly toggle
back and forth between the different versions. This is especially helpful, I find, for new photographers or when you're looking to elevate or update your style because you can try
out and test different things to see what works best. And then last, you have your presets in your collections areas. And these are something that you might end up using later, but
for the purposes of learning editing, history and snapshots are all you really need to know for now. On the bottom, you'll find Selecting your photo a filmrip view of all of your
images. And this is where you can select the image that you want to work on. And it's also handy for batch editing multiple photos at a time when doing client work to be efficient.
On the right side over Editing area intro here is where all the editing happens. And this is also where our different editing panels live with all of the different options, which
we'll go through now. We're going to start by Basics Panel - How to get a clean basic edit coming into this photo over here, which I've already reset back to its original raw
format without any adjustments applied to it. We'll go ahead and come into our basics panel here, going and toggling this down. And remember, we're going to go back to our simple
three-step editing workflow, focusing on our basic adjustments first, then layering on stylization, retouching, and refinements. So, our goal in this part of Lightroom is really
just to level out the tones of the photo and get that basic color, brightness, and tonal adjustment. So, we're going to start by coming into the tone area here and just leveling
out our brightness. And as you can see, this image is a bit dark. I've intentionally shot it this way in order to retain some of the whites and highlight detail of this image. So,
one Common mistake with Exposure (and what to do instead) of the things that we don't want to do is it's a common mistake to come and just crank that exposure slider until the skin
is looking good. And we think like, oh, that's our goal, make the skin look good. But the reason this is a mistake is if you look up here in our histogram, we're losing then data
in our highlights. And this defeats the whole purpose and reason of why I shot it to dark. So we will add just a little bit of brightness into the image. But we're not wanting to
do most of our brightening in exposure. Instead, a more refined way of doing this is to come into our shadows and lift here, which lifts in those midtones, especially those lower
mid tones of our image to just brighten that up a bit. And then we can come into our highlights area here. And then finally, we can come down into our whites and our blacks. And
this controls the purest white and black point of your image. This is also a way that you can add a bit of contrast into your image as opposed to the contrast slider. It gives you
a little bit more control over what you're doing here. So, we can bring down our blacks. And as you can see, it's going to mainly impact those darkest areas of the photo, like
right in here on his jacket. So, we want to be careful that we don't go too dark How to use the Histogram as a confidence check with that. And so, as a quick confidence check, I
always like to look at my histogram. And we have this area up here that you might be familiar with because it's similar to the histogram on your camera. And I really recommend
paying attention to this as a new photographer. This is essentially all the pixel data in your photo laid out on a graph from your blacks to your shadows to your midtones all the
way to your whites. And if you click these little triangles up here, these are your clipping indicators that show what areas in your photo are either blowing out to appear white or
are clipping in the blacks. So if we were to come down here and just go too far with our blacks, you can see now it's clipping our image. Or if we were to come and just bring that
exposure up, it doesn't even look like it's that bright on her face. But you can see we then start to lose detail in the image. Why this is so great is a lot of times we can't
trust our monitor. Even you seeing this photo on YouTube is going to be so different than how it actually looks when I'm editing. But even monitor to monitor, you don't always know
what's going on in your image. So this will give you a real quick confidence check to make sure all of the tones in your image are safe. So we'll go ahead and turn these back off.
But this is essentially what I'm looking for when I'm making these microbasic adjustments to my photo. I'm really looking to just kind of level it out and get it looking decent.
Lastly is the contrast slider. And you could add a touch of contrast here if needed. Typically, I might add a little tiny bit of contrast in if the image is looking a little flat,
but I tend to not do a lot of contrast adjustments here because I like to do it a little bit later when I get into stylization where you can do it in a more controlled way.
Remember, the goal is to just simply balance out the image and get it neutral. Next, we'll even out White Balance - How to even out the color tones our color. So, we'll come into
our white balance area here, which is going to affect the overall color of the photo. And that's controlled by these two sliders. our temperature, which controls the warmth or
coolness, and our tint, pushing it towards magenta or those greens. You can also doubleclick on the name of any of these settings to reset the sliders. So, when it comes to white
balance, there's really no oneizefits-all here. The goal is really to get the image looking neutral and natural and avoiding color extremes. For instance, you don't want your skin
tones to look overly orange, blue, green, or pink. Or like what I like to tell my students is we don't want our clients to look like they came out of an episode of Frogg. One quick
shortcut to get good color is to use this eyropper tool and click on a neutral gray or white part of your photo. This will typically get it pretty good and then you can adjust to
taste from there. It doesn't have to be perfect at this point because we will be stylizing. You just want to get the overall image to be generally balanced. Texture vs Clarity -
What to do for better skin tones Next, let's come down into our presence area and we have texture and clarity. A common mistake I see a lot of portrait photographers make is
they'll use clarity to either make their image look a little bit more punchy or to soften the skin. And the reason that I do not recommend the clarity tool for portrait
photographers or really any photography of people is because it really negatively impacts the skin tones. And if we we bring it down to soften uh at the extreme, you can really see
what it's doing to your photo. It's giving kind of an 80s mall Vaseline on the lens glamour portrait vibe. And that's not what we want. Instead, texture is actually a newer version
of clarity that's less harsh, and it can be used to refine the fine details of the image. So, if you click on her hair here, you can really see that if we drag up that tool, it's a
lot less harsh, and it's protecting the integrity of the image while increasing the fine detail. And you can also do it the opposite way to soften detail without it being an overly
heavy-handed thing. Really, for all these tools, we want to keep it pretty subtle, but I always recommend texture over clarity. And I actually have a full video breaking this down
that I'll link up for anybody that's interested in diving a bit deeper. And then last is dehaze. And this is really for images that have a bit of haze to them to add back in
contrast. This is a very strong adjustment. And it's rarely something that I would use, let alone use across a full image. If I am using it, it will usually be done with the
masking tool and just apply to a specific part of the image. And then finally, we have our Vibrance vs Saturation - What to know as a photographer of people vibrance and saturation
sliders. Both of these control the intensity of the color in our photo. And the thing that's most important for us to know as photographers of people is that vibrance is a newer
version of saturation that's less aggressive in the skin tones. So, this is really the slider we want to use. Saturation is more for landscape photographers. So, if I want to give
my colors a little bit of extra pop, I'll go ahead and do that using vibrance. Notice though that this is a global adjustment, meaning it's applied equally across all of the colors
in your image, but you will have a chance to edit individual colors in stylization stage. So, that's the basics panel. The final part of my basic adjustment, not within this panel,
is actually down under lens One setting I have checked ON for every photo corrections. Come into the profile tab and check mark on enable profile corrections. This is something I
do on all of my images and it gets rid of any lens distortion or vignetting. And what's great about this is you can see here it's pulled in my lens profile data. So, Lightroom is
very smart. It already knows the exact lens you used and how to correct for it. And that's why I always have this checked on. In fact, I've actually built this into an import
preset that I use to apply to all of my images upon import. It includes some of the basic adjustments that I make across all of my images to just help save me time. I share this
import preset for free. So, if you want to speed up your workflow and try it on your own photos, you can find it in the description below. So, that's our clean edit. And if we come
over into our snapshots and take a quick snapshot, we can see our before and our after. Now, just a quick check-in. If you're feeling overwhelmed at all, I recommend re-watching
that part through again with your own image until it feels more familiar. You really want to master the basic edits first because this is the foundation that your stylization will
build upon. And if you're ready to keep going, let's do it. STEP 2 - Stylizing your photos Part two of our process is my favorite. And that's stylization. This is where you're
going to add your specialized color adjustments and give your image your own signature touch. This is also where things get a bit more advanced. So, if you want to go a lot deeper
and really take your editing to the next level, I invite you to also check out my signature course, shoot toit. This is where I teach my full stepbystep system, including how to
shoot with your final edit in mind, which is the game changer for creating consistent standout work that clients love. It's really the course I wish existed when I was starting
out. Link is below if you want to take a peek inside. But for today, I really just wanted you to come away feeling a bit more confident and excited to dig into Lightroom. So, for
this beginner's guide, we're going to go a bit quicker through each of these tools. That way we can touch on each of them to give you a comprehensive overview and a little taste of
what each of these do and how to use them. First is our tone How to use Tone Curves in Lightroom curve. Possibly my favorite tool in Lightroom. And there's two ways this can be
used. First is to brighten or darken specific tones within our image. And if you look here on the curve, you'll notice this shadow of our histogram in the background that
corresponds with the histogram up top. This line here lays across this histogram representing our blacks all the way up to our white points of our image. This allows us to lift up
or down very specifically brightening or darkening specific tones of our image. And in order to use this tool, we can start by placing points along this line. And these points are
essentially locking those different tones in place. And then we're able to drag up or down on different parts to just adjust those parts of the image. So, for example, if I wanted
to brighten up a bit more in those midtones and add a bit more contrast, I can keep my blacks a little bit lower, keep some contrast in those shadows, but brighten up right in the
mid tones with this nice pretty U shape. And this is maintaining our whites while just boosting the brightness a bit. and keeping things locked in where I want them to be. Another
thing that you could do is bring up the black point. And this creates a bit of a lifted shadow look. I'll overdo uh all of these things more than I would actually do so that you
can really see. And what this does is it allows you to go into what's called the RGB or color curves, which are these little red, green, and blue options up top. And we can go in
and do the same thing along the line here and pop some color into that shadow. Now, this is just one way that I love using this tool. And if I toggle this on and off, you can kind
of see that subtle stylization. But, as you can imagine, the possibilities are endless. Curves is one of those tools that a lot of photographers avoid just because it can feel
really foreign at first. But I promise you, it is worth learning. And I actually have a full video where I go even deeper on this tool, including how to use it to color your images
and create polished filmic looks. I'll link it below. Next, we'll come into the How to use the Color Mixer for color adjustments color mixer. This lets you edit specific colors in
your image, specifically by their hue, saturation, and luminance. So, if you want to tweak your greens or your blues of your image to get a very specific color tone or you want to
make subtle skin tone adjustments or say fix a sunburnt client, this is where that happens within Lightroom, your hue is going to shift the actual color tone. So, if we wanted to
shift the skin tones, those will live typically in those oranges. And we can really dial in a very specific skin tone. Saturation is going to control how bold that color is. Our
luminance is going to control how light or dark that color appears in our image, if we want to brighten or darken specific colors. This is another tool that I have a full video
sharing more advanced tips on. I'll link it below if you want to dive even deeper. Next is How to use Color Grading in Lightroom color grading. This is awesome for adding subtle
color into your shadows, midtones, and highlights. And there are a lot of ways this can be used, but one of my favorite is simply adding a bit of warmth to the image. This can be
used instead of the temperature slider, which adds more of a global warmth across the full photo. By using the color grading tool, we can control very specifically where it's
added. But beyond that, we could actually control the specific color. So, for instance, if I wanted to add some color into the midtones of my image, a little bit of warmth, I can
say by pulling this dot here, I want to bring it more towards like these peachy oranges versus like maybe I want to go more of like a golden yellow tone. And you can dial in a very
specific color. And once you find that color, it can be a signature style that you do across all of your images. Once you have the color the way you like, hold down shift key to
lock it in place. And then you can drag up or down on this second little bar to control the saturation of that color. Again, this is just one simple application, but I recommend
starting to play with this tool to mix up your own unique looks. Moving down, these next panels are really more for retouching and refining stage. But there's one more important
area that you'll want to know about for stylizing your images, and Masking menu that is our masking menu. So far, all of the edits we've made apply across the full image, even if
targeting specific tones and colors. If those tones and colors are in the image, anywhere in it, when we're doing global adjustments, it's going to tweak them. The power of masking
is that we can tell Lightroom only change like say this specific corner of the photo or only a touch the people in the image. So this is one of my other favorite tools in Lightroom
that is up there with curves especially with the new AI masking which makes it a power tool. For instance, you can choose select subject here and instead of needing to
painstakingly mask the subject yourself, Lightroom creates a nearperfect mask, even capturing the hair and all. So, this allows me to then just adjust my subject. I can come in and
just make tweaks just to the people of the image. Or you can come up here, click, and say select subject again, rightclick, and invert your mask. And now you have a perfect mask of
everything in your image except your subject. This is really great when you're wanting to isolate different parts of your image for more of those specialized adjustments. I go very
in depth on the masking tool inside of shootedit and how it fits into my full workflow. But for a beginner friendly walkthrough, I also have a free YouTube tutorial where I share
some of my absolute favorite tips for using it on portraits. So here's a quick before and after. And here's actual the final version where I've fully stylized the image to taste.
So that's our stylization tools. Next, we'll move on STEP 3 - Retouching & Refining to stage three, which is retouching and refining our images. Next, let's come into our detail
area. Under our Sharpening your photos in the Detail panel sharpening menu, amount controls the amount of our sharpening. Radius controls the width or thickness of the sharpening.
For instance, for fine details, you want a smaller radius or for a more noticeable effect, you can dial it up. You really just don't want to overdo it here. Pro tip for us as
