bit too much dead space on the left hand side i'm going to make sure that demi's eye is on that third line so just bringing it up a little bit i might just bring it out just a
touch and that looks really good to me so i'm going to go ahead and hit enter next thing that i always do is adjust my white balance and i think this image could be just a touch
warmer so i'm going to warm that up a little bit and i think the tint looks great where it is Exposure i also like my photos to be nice and bright so i'm going to bring the
exposure up just a touch whenever i'm adding contrast into my image i don't usually use the contrast slider and instead i will use these four tone sliders here particularly the
blacks slider so if i want the image to be more punchy overall i'll just bring this black slider down as you can see the image has a lot more punch to it a little bit more contrast
if i just undo that i think it looks great where it was okay so the next thing i'm going to do is something a little bit different i'm going to come up to this mask option it's the
icon to the far right at the very top of the adjustment panel i'm going to click on this and i'm going to select subject and what this is going to do is it's going to intelligently
try to select the subject and mask it out from the background and it's done a really really good job here with demi you can add adjustments here by increasing or decreasing the
exposure i'm not going to do that however i'm actually going to right click on the mask and click invert and what that's going to do is select the background instead and allow us
to adjust the background so we could do all sorts of things like make the background a little bit cooler or a little bit warmer we could also decrease the exposure make demi pop a
little bit more from the background but i'm actually going to increase the exposure a little bit to make the image look a little bit flat overall once we're done here we're just
going to click done the next thing that i'm going to do is come all the way down to the bottom where i will be adding a little bit of grain so as you Grain can see this preset
already has a little bit of grain added i also have these fine grain and rough grain preset options which will allow you just to quickly add grain to your image i think i'm going
to go with rough grain here so that's an amount of 38 the size is 40 and the roughness is at default which is 50. so if we zoom in here now we can see that little bit of grain has
added a bit of a nostalgic film type feel to our photo which i really love so i'm gonna hit the l key on my keyboard just to see how this image is looking overall without the
distractions in the background and i really like that so here is the before and then the after i'm thinking that i'm going to go a little bit further with the vintage feel so i'm
going to come back up to the tone curve i'm going to select the point curve here and i'm going to go right down to the point that is in the shadows here so this represents the
darkest parts of the image and i'm going to grab this control point and bring it up a little bit and what that's going to do is add a very subtle fade to the image overall and i'm
going to balance that out by bringing this next point which would represent more of the shadows just down a touch so there we go a little bit more of a faded feel to the photo
overall i'm Skin going to show you guys a very very quick and easy way to retouch this image demi's skin is looking really great so we really don't need to do much this might just
be more for demonstration purposes and we're going to select the mask tool once again i'm going to create a new mask using the brush now we can adjust the size of our brush using
the scroll wheel on your mouse or you can use the size slider here and i'm gonna do a very very rough selection of demi's skin here as you can see the red is showing up and that's
showing us exactly what we're selecting i'm gonna go over her eyes mouth nose all that stuff here i've also got auto mask selected here which will mean that there won't be any
spill over into the hair and things like that what i'm going to do here is actually hit the option key and i'm going to start removing parts of the mask so hitting the option key
will allow you to remove this selection and i'm going to remove the eyebrows i'm also going to remove demi's eyes [Music] i'm going to remove her mouth from the selection as well
and also the bottom of her nose because we don't want any of these details to be lost with the next correction that i'm going to make what i'll be doing here is bringing the
texture all the way down and if i toggle this off and then back on again you can see that it has definitely softened the skin up quite a lot now for me this is a little bit
overboard so i'm actually going to bring the texture slider back to around i will say negative 30 because i don't want to lose too much of the original texture of demi's skin there
are plenty of ways to do skin retouching this for me is the fastest and it's great because i don't really have to leave lightroom our next step is just going to be cleaning and
Photoshop polishing this image taking it to that next level and for this i love using photoshop so right within lightroom all we need to do is right click on the image select edit
in adobe photoshop 2022 now that is going to import this image as a tiff into photoshop and we can make adjustments and then once we're done we simply hit save and it's going to
bring that file back into lightroom so that we can export it and send it wherever we want whether it's to our instagram page our website etc etc now i use it that often that is
already selected when i've come into photoshop this is the patch tool and this is something that i use all the time it is really really amazing for cleaning up images getting rid
of things in the background anything that might distract from your image so i'm going to zoom in on this image and i'm going to be removing some of the minor blemishes on demi's
face so all we need to do is draw a little circle or whatever shape you'd like around the part that you want to patch click on that circle and then drag it to the area that you
want to sample from so i like to sample from an area that is of similar color that's a little bit smoother so we can go right beside on her skin here we let go hit command d to
show you guys and that blemish is gone and we can keep going here drawing little circles and cleaning up the image here so we're just going to keep going [Music] again this is for
demonstration purposes i probably wouldn't go this in depth especially that it's not a super close-up image but you can definitely see a difference there what i might also do is
actually remove some of these like spots on the wall in the background because they're kind of distracting too so i'm going to use this patch tool as you can see it is so quick and
so easy there are plenty of other ways to remove elements from your photos in photoshop as well there's like the clone stamp tool there's also the magic eraser i just really like
this tool and i highly recommend that you try it out on your own images okay now that i have cleaned up the background a little bit i'm going to hit command s to save that image
and then we can exit photoshop and lo and behold we now have two images in our lightroom catalog the first is the tiff as you can see and that is the one that has been edited in
photoshop and the other is our image before we exported to photoshop now we could if we wanted to create a crop for instagram so i could come back to the crop tool hit four by five
because that is the native ratio for instagram adjust our crop a little bit so we don't crop out demi's elbow and hit enter and that is definitely something that i would put up on
my instagram page for sure so i hope you guys enjoyed this one let me know if you have any questions down in the comment section below again guys make sure you check out those raw
files i encourage you to create your own edits make sure you tag me if you do post them on instagram i'd love to see what you guys can create remember to make a story worth telling
i will see you guys in the next video see ya [Music] you Intro All right. So, just over two years ago, I uploaded this video onto my YouTube channel where I showed how I retouched
a certain style of portrait and included the behindthe-scenes photography. The video has done really well. It's gained just over half a million views, got,200 comments, and nearly
25,000 likes. But that was just over two years ago, and a lot has happened to Photoshop and to Lightroom since then. So, what I thought would be a good thing to do was update this
process now to show you how I would now retouch this portrait style using only Lightroom. And when I say Lightroom, I'll be using Lightroom, the desktop version. Exactly the same
can be done in Lightroom Classic. So, let's have a look how I would now do it. Adaptive Color All right. So, this is the one I'm going to work on. This is an underexposed one of
these sort of I guess test shots of that I did of Ian. But I like the pose. So maybe there's something we can do with this. And in the original video, what I did was I actually
came over to the edit section here, made adjustments to the exposure and shadows and what have you. But I'm going to leave that alone for now because now we've got the profiles up
here. The one we've got available to us is the adaptive color and adaptive black and white. And this is where the AI is going to analyze the image to see, look, what do I need to
do for this particular image? And it's going to apply certain kind of changes to it. So let's have a look here. Adaptive color. And you can see when I click on it, it is a little
bit overcooked, but we do have the amount slider where we can either increase it or decrease it. And I'm going to take it to the left to decrease it. And I'm going to probably take
it just to around about there will be good. Great thing is no changes have been made at all to the edit section here. No edits have been done. This is purely the profile. You can
see, look, if I go before and after, just that one thing has made a huge difference. So, I'm not going to do anything in here whatsoever. What I will do though is now go to the
crop tool. I'll go to a 3x4 crop. I'll bring down the top here. I just want to make it so that his eyes here are on the upper third. And I'll position them right in the middle.
Something like that. And press enter or return. Now, in the first video I did over two years ago, at this stage, I'd started in Lightroom and then everything from this point was
done in Photoshop. But like I said, we're going to stick in Lightroom to show you how I would now do all those things in Lightroom. So the first thing Eyes I did then was I worked
on the eyes. So if I zoom in, I'll just click on 100%. You can see the eyes. We've got the nice catch lights, but they do look a little bit flat. So what I will do is we'll go to
the masking section. We've got the uh Lightroom is recognized as a person. We've got the thumbnail. I'll click on that. It then analyzes the image to tell us what masks that we can
create. The one I want is the iris and pupil. So I'll click on that. Click on create. And we see now in the masking panel, the mask has been created. And now I've got all the
controls I can use with that mask, which will then affect the eyes. So let's just go through a few uh adjustments here to bring the eyes back to life, give a little bit more punch,
obviously increase the exposure a touch, and add a little bit of contrast. But the real magic I found that happens with eyes is when you come down to the effect section here where
we've got texture. Really boost up that texture. Really brings out all the detail in the eyes. I love that bit of clarity. Can't go wrong with some clarity on eyes and dehaze. So
we can really control the punch of the eye. Now look, adding more contrast, less contrast. So something like that is looking good. And I'll certainly add a little bit of
sharpening. Not too much. maybe going down to plus 20 something like that. But if we now come to the eye icon to the right hand side here of this mask to go press down before and
after before and after. So already that is making a big difference. So happy with that. Obviously this is completely non-destructive so I can come back to it at any time. So we'll
just rename it and we'll call this one eyes and close it down. The next thing I did in the De dodging and burning original video was dodging and burning. And I used to love doing
that in Photoshop, especially with a a gray layer, blending mode of soft light, and then use the darkening and lightning to really enhance the image. But so much of that now can be
done within Lightroom. And the great thing is totally non-destructive and completely editable at any stage later on. So, let me show you how we do that. I'll go through this very
quickly, but the simple process is this. I'll click on uh create a new mask. I'll come down to where we got the brush and let's just scroll up on the right hand side here to come
to the brush setting. So, the important thing here is that the feather is definitely at 100 because we want all this dodging and burning to blend in naturally to each other. Um,
the flow, now ordinarily that would be up at 100. But what I found works really well for me is to take this down to even around about sort of maybe 20ish, something like that with
the flow. And what that means is as you use the flow and you're brushing over an area to lighten it or darken it, the first kind of stroke round will will lighten it or darken it
by 20%. As you go over it again, it adds another 20 and another 20 and another 20. So it gives you a lot of control rather than going in at full strength straight away. So flow at
20, density definitely at 100. This one I'm going to be using for uh lightening. So let's have a look here. Let's just go to lighten. Uh, that's going to lighten the stuff up. So,
the exposed look is at plus uh plus 0.25. I'm going to take it to plus one. So, plus one stop. Something like that. I'll zoom in just a little bit. Let's just go to 33%. And again,
I'm going to go real quick with this. I can increase or decrease the size of the brush I'm using the right and left square bracket keys. But let's just add a little bit of a
highlight onto his forehead. Just there. Few strokes run around. I'll decrease the size of it and just add a highlight coming down the middle of his nose. Maybe some highlights on
his cheeks. Make them stand forward a little bit like so. And a little bit of highlight on his lip around about there. So again, going really really quick. We turn that off and on.
You can see there. That's the result of that. So let's just rename that one so we know what we're doing. We'll call this one lighten. That's the dodging. So now let's get the
burning which will be the darkening. So again I go to create a new brush or create a new mask. Choose brush. This time uh the settings here are going to stay the same. So look,
feathers 100, flow 20, density 100, but this time we'll go for darken. And that sets the exposure to minus 0.3. And I'm going to go to minus1 around about that. And the great thing
is later on I can adjust these settings if I want to. if I think it's too strong or not strong enough. So now then I'll come in and do some darkening on parts of the image as well.
So wherever I added added highlights either side of that I add darkening so it creates more depth and sort of contour to the face. So we had a highlight in his forehead either side
of that I'll brush down with the burning. And again because I'm using that flow as I go over it each time it increases the how much burning is being done. So I'm going to come down
the side of his face like so. I'll brush decrease the size of the brush. Come around the beard just to kind of real add some shape into there. Might actually darken down his
mustache area like so. And the bottom of the lip. I'll zoom in just a little bit closer. Where? 33. Let's go a 50%. Now I add a highlight going down the middle of his nose. So what
I will do as well is either side of that just a couple of strokes to darken it. And that'll add a lot more kind of contour to the face. Now like so. I'm going to zoom in even
closer. And where we got the shape of the nose just here, what I like to do is make the brush nice and small and just trace around the outside of the nose just there, just to
exaggerate that shape. And while I'm in this close, I can actually darken down the eyes as well a little bit. The outside of the eyes just here. If I just brush over like that to
darken that down. Same on that side. Darken that down. Do it on the other eye as well. And we could also where the eyelashes are, just brush over those a few times, darken those.
There we go. Something like that. And I tell you what, where we've got the eyelids just here, I like to lighten those little bits up. So, let's just rename this brush here so I
know what's what. So, call that one darken. But if I come to the lightener one, I'll open it up. Click on the brush and we're going to be There you go. plus one. And I can just
brush a bit of brightening up, lighten that top part of the eyelid there. Something like that. And I can spend ages doing this, but this is just give an idea. But if I now zoom
out, let's go to um well, let's go to 25%. Something like that. And if I turn off the darkening before, after. Before, after. Now look at the lightning. Before and after. Before
and after. And if I turn off all the masks so far, look, that's before and after. So already we're really starting to see that face shape up. And what I said about the fact that
the the dodging and burning now doing it in Lightroom gives you so much more flexibility is that let's say with the lightning one here, if I think the exposure was too much or too
little, I can adjust it on the fly. Look, I just think that's so powerful to be able to do that. Let's just close that one down. I can go to the darkening and do the same thing
there. Look, I can increase or decrease it. So much control. Absolutely love that. And obviously what we've also got at the very very top is we've got the amount slider just here
where we can control it as well. All right, let's just go to fit on that. The Pop next thing I did in the previous video is a technique that I've used so many times on portraits to
really make them pop, really kind of come forward. And I call it my 2010. Again, that was only ever able to be done in Photoshop. Can do it in Lightroom really simply. This is how
I do it. Again, we're relying on the masking section here. So, I'll create a new mask. Again, I'll go to a brush. And this time, I'm going to take the flow all the way up to 100.
Let's just turn on the overlay because the area that I want to brush around is just the inside area of the face. So, you'll see that with the red overlay, we'll brush around here.
And just about there is where we want. So, brush it all in. So, it's covered with that red overlay. So now whatever I do is going to affect that particular area there. So now that
we've got this uh we'll come down to contrast. Let's just turn that over off just there. I'll zoom in just a little bit more. Let's go for 50%. I'll take the contrast and I'm going
to push this a little bit so it's really obvious on your screen. So contrast to 20. Try and get this closer. There you go. 20. and then come down to the effects and I'll take the
texture to 20 and the clarity to 20. Something like that. I will actually zoom out just a little bit. So now look if I turn that off. That's before and after. Before and after. So
that's the first one. I'll rename it to 20. And then what I'll then do is get another brush. New mask. Get a brush. And this time I'm only going to paint over the eyes and down the
nose and on the mouth. And then this time with the controls, I'm going to do contrast of 10, texture of 10. Let's just try and get that to 10. And clarity of 10 as well. So now
let's just go and turn that off. In fact, let's just rename it. We'll call that one 10. And let's have a look here. So before, after, before and after. So with this one here, it's
quite Creative Effects a a rugged kind of look that I'm giving Ian here. So we can use those settings of 20 and 10, but you don't have to use those settings on every single
portrait that you do. You might want to temper it down, especially if you're maybe photographing a female and you don't want to have that grungy kind of look. You would obviously
reduce them to whatever kind of look that you think works best. Sometimes I only ever do the first part of it. I won't add it to the second part on the eyes and nose and the mouth.
Play it by ear. See what you think works best. But for me, for this one, 20 and then 10. All right, let's just go to zoom to fit on that one there. So, the next one I'll do is a
fake depth of field. So, we'll come out of the masking section and I'll go back into the normal edit section here and I'm going to scroll down to where we have lens blur.
Absolutely love this for creative effects. I'm going to first of all apply it by putting a tick in the check box just there. It then analyzes the image, say right, what's in the
foreground, what's in the background, what needs to be in focus, what needs to be out of focus, and then it's done it. And you can see the focal range is here. But if I put a tick
in the visualized depth, you're going to see that this has got like a bright kind of color on it here, meaning that Ian is pretty much all in focus, which I don't want. So, we
could play around with the focal range here, but what I'm going to do is just go to where it says refinement. That would ordinarily be closed up like so. But if we open it, you've
got focus and blur. And these are brushes that we've got. So, I'm going to go to the blur one. And I'll increase the size of it using the right square bracket key. And I'm just
going to brush over it. And you see where it's getting this dark color on here. That is now going to be out of focus. So, I want the clothing to be out of focus purely. You know,
this is just my creative choice. now. So, we'll have that like so. And then what I will do is I'm going to brush down the side of the face like this. This is like some 70s kind of
pop video by the looks of it. So, we'll take it down to something like that. So, the only part now that's in focus, I might actually blur just the top of his head a little bit as
well. Something like that. So, this area in the middle is what's going to be in focus. So, let's have a look here. We turn off the visualized depth to see it at the normal view.
And this is what we have. Now, we've got the blur amount where we can either increase it or decrease it. So, I'm going to take it to around about 20. Doesn't need to be a lot, but
probably 20 will be enough where we can see now. Look, the ears are out of focus. The side of the head is out of focus, but this middle part here is in focus. So that combined with
the 2010 technique is really going to give it a lot more depth and contour and make it look as if the face is coming forward, especially if it's printed. So happy with that one
there. Right now, what we'll do is add kind of like a glow effect to this. Um, lots of ways we could do it, but the way I'm going to do this in Lightroom, first of all, what I will
do is I'm going to zoom out. Let's go to 12. I'm going to go to the masking section and I'm going to just close that up there. Go to create a new mask. And this time I'm going to
get a linear gradient and I'm going to drag out a gradient on top of the image like this. Now ordinarily what you'll see with the gradient is the fact that you get the denser part
here which is where the full strength of whatever adjustments you make will be visible and then it gets less and less. So the actual effects there will lessen as we go further up
the gradient here. But I want this to be all over the picture. I want to glow all over the image. So what I'm going to do is now that I've laid down the gradient, I'm going to
click on it and drag it upwards. So now all we're left with is the dense part of the gradient. All right. So let's just go to fit. We've got the gradient just there. And all I will
do is come down to clarity and just add a smidgen of minus clarity. That's all it needs to be. In the original video I did, it was just such a subtle amount of glow. Um, we can
kind of mimic that now with just some negative 10. Maybe 10 of clarity. Something like that. I don't know if you'll see this as I turn it off and on, but let's have a look here. So
that's before and after. Before and after. I might increase it just so that you can see it a little bit clearer. Let's go to minus 20. Something around about there. We go before
and after. before and after. Yeah. So, you can see that it's working. You can control how much of a glow you want with that, but negative clarity does tend to do it. But if you go
too far with it, you're going to kind of like wipe out all of the contrast that you've added earlier on. So, you got to kind of play it um you know, take your time, look, see what
works, what doesn't, how how far can you go with it. But minus 10 for this one seems to work just right. All right. So, to finish off then, let's just rename this mask. I'll call
this one glow. And the last thing I want to do is just add a bit of light shaping onto this image. And to do that, again, I'm going to use the masking. So, I'll click create a new
mask. I'll go to a radial gradient. And I'm going to click in the middle of Ian's face and drag out this radial gradient. A long thin gradient that's going to go right down the
middle of his face like that. I'll drag out the center a little bit there as well, just to sort of harden it up a little bit. And then we're going to go to invert. So now this is
going to light up his face, but the rest of the area is going to around him is going to go darker. And to do that, I'll just take the exposure and drag a slider over to the left.
So something like that. I love it. I mean, such a simple lighting effect, but really, really does kind of make your eyes go straight towards his face. is if we use some kind of
like a modifier there to really add that light just going down the middle. Really cool effect. So, let's have a look at that. Before and after. Before and after. Very cool. All
right, let's just rename that. So, rename and I'll put just call it lighting. There we go. So, let's have a look the before and after. Let's come out of the masking and let's just
press the back slash key. So, we go before and after. before and after. So there you go. How I would now retouch that kind of style of image in Lightroom that we have today in
2025. I mean making use of those masks. There's so much you can do with those masks, but also kicking the actual retouching off using those adaptive profiles, the adaptive color,
the adaptive black and white depending on what image you're using. Really, really cool stuff. So, just thought it was time to update that two and a bit year old um retouching
technique. Showing you now how I do what I used to do in Photoshop and how it can be done in Lightroom, even down to things like dodging and burning. Love it. Okay. Right, that's
it for now. I'll see you in the next video. [Music] All From Glyn Dewis Adobe Lightroom 0:00 all right so this is basically going to 0:01 be a really quick master class on 0:03
editing portraits cuz Josh ball is very 0:06 very very good at Portrait editing I 0:08 think his style is so filmic so 0:11 professional if you don't have a style 0:13 at the
moment you don't know what style 0:14 to do I'd like Heely suggest having a 0:17 look at Josh's work just cuz it's so 0:19 minimally edited but the effect it has 0:21 is really
smooth he uh does a really 0:24 great job of keeping um his edits 0:26 consistent and not over edited so what 0:28 we're doing is turning this one from the 0:31 right here to the
one the reference 0:33 screenshot of his Instagram so I'm just 0:35 going to crop things around and post to 0:37 give us some room so the curves are done 0:40 here but we'll go
over them shortly for 0:42 the settings 2 2.8 so there's nice 0:45 softness to the foreground background I 0:47 think I see him shooting a lot with a 50 0:49 mil Prime low eyes so
nice and bright 0:52 shutter just to expose the image so yeah 0:54 pretty well exposed so this is straight 0:56 out of the camera yeah he now the white 1:00 balance and everything
and now we've 1:02 just got to try to give the image some 1:05 character and style through editing okay 1:08 just before we get into doing the curves 1:10 let's just he has a very
common trait I 1:14 believe of Bringing Down the highlights 1:16 so I'll try to dive deeper into what 1:19 this looks like so it's just a it's a 1:22 flatness to the image you can
see how 1:23 flat everything is when it's to the left 1:26 and then how glowy it is the other way 1:28 contrast a bit a bit darker de Haz down 1:32 for softness and you can see
that raises 1:34 the shadows as well so it's going to 1:36 reduce contrast we want it nice and 1:39 smooth so down and then we'll even do 1:42 texture for softness as well and
shadows 1:46 we just want to see more detail uh go a 1:49 little bit 1:50 warmer and take out some purple tone 1:53 with the split okay Vibrance his his 1:58 colors have a nice
nice pop to them and 2:02 saturation 2:04 down okay so if we just reset so if we 2:07 just reset that's what we've done so far 2:10 you can already see that we're a long 2:12 long
way there um even the colors and we 2:14 have even touched split turning in hsl 2:17 yet and also what we're going to go over 2:19 a little later on is the brushes and 2:21 filters
so I've got a few here already 2:23 done and at the end I'll sort of explain 2:26 what they're doing okay as for Curves 2:27 how do we know we need to do these what 2:29 effect do
they have I mentioned he likes 2:32 the like a smoothness to his highlights 2:35 so we're going to do a bit extra in this 2:38 curve um so as you can see 2:43 flatness just doing
it a bit okay so 2:45 this curve is there's not much going on 2:48 here he's doing that effect again here 2:50 in the highlights this is just so 2:53 there's not too much contrast
in the 2:55 shadows you can see how you get that 2:56 little shine it's interesting the people 2:59 they get the shine not by raising the 3:02 blacks cuz getting getting the Shine
by 3:05 raising the blacks would look like this 3:07 this is what most people do to get a 3:10 little shine which looks good it's 3:13 interesting when people do this so I 3:16
think you get you get like a a different 3:19 shine higher up in the image like in the 3:22 brighter Shadows okay and then color 3:24 channels we have lots of contrast coming 3:27
into the Shadows so this is the dark 3:29 part of the image watch my other 3:31 trainings if you don't understand the 3:32 curves lots of contrast lots of contrast 3:35 we're
leaving the highlights alone 3:37 obviously we got way less blue than the 3:39 other colors so we are getting lots of 3:42 warmth into the image especially the 3:45 highlights and
we're getting more blue 3:48 in the Dark Shadows so that's sort of 3:50 balancing out those warm tones and the 3:52 highlights and then the cool tones in 3:54 the Dark Shadows so
very very easy to 3:57 see that the reading that the red and 4:00 green are very similar and there's just 4:02 so much warmth put in the highlights and 4:04 then coolness put in
the shadows with 4:07 the the use of this blue curve and then 4:09 just so much contrast is put into the 4:12 image using these curves and then this 4:14 one is for fade and then
this one for 4:17 matte look a lot of people talk about um 4:20 up here fine 4:23 tune what I'll actually do is come all 4:25 the way down because it's hard to get 4:27 your colors
right when your brightness 4:29 and stuff isn't quite right so a little 4:31 bit of a just cuz our subject is so in 4:35 the middle of the image and it's so 4:37 important to stand
out while we're here 4:39 just a little bit of 4:43 green something like that so we want 4:45 this warm and cool split again we want 4:48 more warm tones so I would go Shadows 4:51
more warm tones you can see how that 4:53 comes through highlights even some more 4:56 not that much so now hsl we should be 4:58 done so this is little things like how 5:00 bright
is a hoodie in skin tone bring 5:04 this down I'd say yellows for a little 5:07 bit of shine Blues deep Aqua not much in 5:11 the image bring them down touch purple 5:14 magenta
very not much in there not much 5:17 in there now saturation let's go just 5:21 matching them up just looking at the 5:23 other I'm actually going to bring 5:25 yellows 5:26 up he
like the warm tones it really 5:30 emphasizes the yellows and warm 5:35 tones again there's not much blue and 5:37 aqua in this well there's lots of blue 5:39 in the car quite
strong purple not to be 5:43 down only a tiny bit of the car yellows 5:48 play a bit of a role and they seem to be 5:50 a bit more of an orange rather than like 5:52 yellow so
we'll go somewhere around here 5:57 green not much green blue so the car we 6:01 look about bang on so I'm just going to 6:03 leave it about there okay we're about 6:05 done and
I'll show you the masking so we 6:08 got this one on the shoe I just thought 6:11 the shoe was very very we we brought up 6:13 the exposure just to give the light 6:16 light hits
it looks nice but this one 6:18 just a just a little brush on your face 6:21 we increase the contrast and the 6:24 exposure a tiny bit just on your face 6:26 brings your face out a
touch the shoe 6:28 was like over whelmingly bright so just 6:31 exposure down just so her like face is 6:33 the is the brightest thing in the image 6:36 and then the subject the
whole subject 6:38 exposure up the tiniest bit contrast up 6:41 the tiniest bit four the colors are kind 6:43 of washed out you can see there's a real 6:45 purple tone as well
somehow probably 6:47 from the car like it's in her skin and 6:49 it's in the shoe and stuff and then we 6:51 get this matted look it's kind of 6:53 underexposed that if you looked
at the 6:55 histogram I don't use the histogram and 6:57 I don't really think anyone should so it 6:58 looks underexposed because of all this 7:01 like matted style we did but we
still 7:03 see as much detail and it looks way 7:07 smoother it looks way nicer so again 7:10 here's reset after so curves played a 7:13 really big role in this you can see the
7:14 contrast and smoothness and a lot of 7:17 warmth actually just s didn't do a lot a 7:19 little bit of split turning to warm it 7:21 up uh for sharpening I'll probably bring
7:23 sharpening right down white balance was 7:25 pretty bang on at the beginning but as I 7:27 said there's like there was lots of 7:29 purple tone uh in the original so we 7:31
just like took out that purple tone and 7:34 then Clarity texture dehaze is all just 7:36 like style so up to you whether you like 7:39 the soft look lower contrast bit of haze
7:42 texture just sort of blurs the image a 7:44 little bit I think softening your image 7:46 makes it look more filmic uh yeah 7:49 sharpening down also helps that 7:51 venting
just cuz the subject's bang in 7:54 the middle I think it helps I think on 7:57 her face Maybe de haaz it feel like 8:00 there's more detail in the face for his 8:03 yeah something
like that maybe or like 8:06 bit more clarity because we took it out 8:08 um in a different area I think the face 8:12 looks a little has more detail now it's 8:15 back 8:16 to uh
how it was originally so again 8:20 let's go reset after okay okay comment 8:24 down below and I will catch you in the 8:26 next 8:28 month All From Maarten Schrader Color grading
What we're covering You're about to fall in love with Lightroom. If editing has ever felt overwhelming, inconsistent, or like a total guessing game. Let's change that. In this
beginner friendly tutorial, I'm going to walk you through step by step every panel in Lightroom Classic so you actually understand what each lighter does and how to use them to
create dreamy, professional looking portraits you're proud of. Let's dig in. First, if you're new here, welcome. I am Chelsea Nicole, photographer, educator, and self-proclaimed
editing nerd. I've spent over a decade photographing high-end weddings all over the world with work featured in top magazines and blogs. And now I love helping other photographers
like you build confidence in your edits and create images you absolutely love and clients love too. Before we touch a Simple 3-step workflow for pro edits single slider, here's a
quick peek at the editing workflow that I follow for every single session. Whether it be a wedding, engagement shoot, family portraits, no matter what I'm editing, this simple
three-step process keeps everything clean, fast, and consistent. I always start with first my basic adjustments to clean up in the image and create a professional foundation, and
then I'll build on that with stylization. And this is where you get to add in your unique style and signature look to your photos. And then last is retouching and refinements. This
is really just those final tweaks that add polish and create a portfolio level quality to your images. I like to think of this process kind of like building a house. First, you are
going to lay a solid foundation and then you get to add in personality and that final polish. So, let's get started. If you're brand How to Import photos into Lightroom Classic new
to Lightroom, the first thing we need to do is import our photos in. And side note, I'm using what's called Lightroom Classic, also known as the desktop version, not CC. This is
the version I recommend using if you want to do photography professionally. Step one is to make sure we're on the library tab over here in the right upper hand menu. After we do
that, we can come up to file, import photos and video. And then we'll choose the folder that the images are in from this left-hand source menu. Or alternatively, if we cancel out
of this, you can simply drag and drop the folder that your images are in into the center panel as a quick shortcut. Once the import window pops up, there's a few most important
things to check. First, you want to make sure you're not editing Important things to check before Import from a memory card. The folder that you bring in should be on your computer
or an external hard drive. So, if you haven't already, copy the images from your memory card over to your computer before importing them in. Next, we want to make sure all photos
is selected in this upper center area here. This tells Lightroom to pull in the full folder of images. And then we want to select add, not copy or move. This keeps your photos in
their original folders and prevents creating a bunch of unnecessary duplicate files. From there, we can click import and boom, we're ready to Develop area walkthrough edit. Next,
we'll click the develop tab in the upper right hand side of our workspace. This opens up the develop menu, your main editing space and where all the magic happens. But before we
start adjusting sliders, let's just get a quick lay of the land so that this area can start feeling like a cozy home. Customizing your Lightroom workspace First, you may notice
that your Lightroom menu looks a bit different than mine. And it's simply because I've customized my Lightroom workspace to keep things clean and simple and hide any options that I
