are going to shape this vignette pretty much perfectly around our subject to make sure that we are absolutely nailing it to make sure we are getting it just right. I'd say that's
looking pretty good. What we are now going to do is make our way over to this little button right here on the right hand side. Click invert, which now is going to allow us to edit
the outside of the mask, not the inside of our radial filter. And then we can come down to the exposure slider here, and we're just going to look at decreasing the exposure. Now, I
would say things are probably a little bit wide, so I can just come in here and adjust this a little bit further. We want to always make sure that we've got a little bit of padding
around our subject. But I would say just like that quick before and after that mask is a gamecher and it draws so much attention to our subject. And then last but not least, we are
going to come back to select people. And then we are going to select person one. And we are going to go down to iceella and pupils. Where? Oh, iris and pupils. There we go. I have
no idea if I pronounced the word scrella right. I don't think I've ever used that word. Anyway, let's hit create mask. And then we are once again going to press O to hide that
overlay. And then we're going to zoom in on our subject here. Just like that. And then we are simply just going to increase the exposure a little bit. I find that with the eyes,
it's very very touch and go. And then in this case, as the white part of our subject's eyes are quite yellow or the scrella, we can come down here and just turn the saturation down
a touch, just a little bit. That's all that is necessary. And then just like that, a before and after. You can see that our subject's eyes actually I think they're standing out a
little bit too much here. If we come back to the exposure, let's drop this back quite significantly. Like I said, it's very touchandgo. You definitely don't need too much here.
Let's now continue on to tip number four, which is leaning into the colors you already have in your image instead of trying to go for a crazy edit. So, if I'm having a look at the
colors in our shot, we've got a lot of green, got a lot of yellow, we have a little bit of red, and we also obviously have orange, which is our subject's skin tone. So, I don't
want to change the orange as I've already nailed that in my white balance workflow. The red is really small, so I'm not really going to worry about that. And there aren't too many
other colors going on. So, I'm only going to be playing with yellow and green. I'm not going to try and turn the greens into some, you know, gray looking moody vibe. I'm going to
just lean into exactly how they already look in the shot, as I like the way they look. And I'm just going to make some simple adjustments to help our subject stand out a little bit
more. Let's jump into our color mixer tab and we are going to pick up our green slider here. We're going to move these over to the aqua side a little bit more. And we're going to
do the same thing with our yellows as well. This just adds a little bit more intensity onto those colors. But with that being said, we're now going to turn back that intensity in
the saturation tab by just reducing the yellow and green saturation sliders just a little bit. Nothing too crazy, just backing them off a touch. And then we can come into the
luminance tab. We can reduce the green luminance and reduce the yellow luminance, which is the brightness of our color. And then just like that, only changing six sliders, we can
help our subject stand out more from the image. Feel like we're cleaning up the image just a little bit. At least in this situation, it's like that. And we can go from this to
this. I much prefer this green tone versus the warmer green tone we had before. Keeping the colors true to life and accurate in your portraits is super important. And a really easy
way to do that is to not go crazy with a huge workflow. Otherwise, you might end up with people's skin tones looking gray or really overcooked and borderline radioactive. Not
ideal. Tip number five, let's talk about removing distractions, especially in this shot here. I would say we don't have too many distractions to remove, but there are tiny little
things that I want to remove that I know will make a genuine good impact to this shot, make things less distracting, and of course, once again, sound like a broken record at this
point, help our subject stand out more from the shot. So, we're going to be using two tools. We're going to be using the masking tool, and we're also going to be using the remove
tool with generative AI enabled as it is so so nice to use. Okay, so let's first think about masking. The first thing I want to do is come to this leaf in the top lefthand corner.
I find it a little bit too bright and a little bit too intense. So what I'm going to do is add a radial gradient over the top of it. Going to reduce the exposure a little bit and
reduce the saturation a touch. Cool. It now looks a little bit more dulled and killed off. I'm happy with how it looks. Now let's open up our uh our remove tool here and zoom in on
our subject. Now, you can see there is a tiny little white dot on our subject's lip. Not ideal. So, we're going to remove that. I want to make sure that use generative AI is
enabled. So, I'm going to make my uh brush a little bit bigger than that dot. I'm just going to click it. Now, the cool thing with the remove tool in Lightroom is you can stack
multiple removes in the same AI generation thing, if that makes sense. I I'll show you what I mean. So, for example, we don't have to just click his lip and then generate the
remove and then do it again. We can add multiple on the same ones. So, what I'm going to do is also remove these white dots in the background. I don't particularly like how they
look, especially this one up here in the corner. And then we've got some leaves behind our subject's head, which just look a little bit too distracting for my liking. So, I'm going
to remove them. Give it a little bit of a buffer. I don't want to select too much of our subject's hoodie. And then we're also going to do the same thing down here with uh with
this part of this leaf as well. We can color all of that in. Okay, cool. So, with all of that selected, I can now just hit remove. And now I get to sit back, let the AI wizards
inside of Lightroom work their magic, and hopefully it nails it first go. Of course, we can always go through and have a look at the different options that Lightroom gives us. But,
uh, usually Lightroom nails it first go. And there we go. Just like that. It is that easy. We can cycle through here and really nothing much is changing, is it? The main one I want
to have a look at is our subject's lip. Okay, it's removed a little bit of his mustache, but it's not really going to uh to affect too much. But now we've removed those leaves
behind our subject's head. We've removed that white dot in the top corner and the other few white dots we had. And of course, we've also then gone in and killed off this leaf in
the top leftand corner. I would say this image is looking good. And there we go. That is going to wrap up today's video. This portrait is definitely far from finished. This is the
actual finished result I would have gone with. I love this photo. It's one of my favorite photos I shot on my recent trip to Central Java, but they are my top five Lightroom
editing portrait tips that hopefully you can now go and implement into your workflow and get better results the next time you're editing. If you want to go and continue learning
about photography, photo editing, video and video editing, you can go and check out this video right here. All From Zac Watson Adobe Lightroom Visual arts Codecademy Try Codecademy
free for 7 days Sponsored codecademy.com Business Solutions Explore enterprise coding solutions with Codecademy. Learn more! Take Our Quiz Not sure where to begin? Take our quick
quiz to find your fit! Browse Catalog Browse our catalog of coding languages. Find your fit. Individual Pricing View our plans and find the right one to fit your coding needs.
Learn more In this video Chapters Transcript Intro hey guys and welcome back to a brand new video today we're going to be diving into Lightroom and I'm going to be running you
through my top five portrait editing tips for anyone out there shooting portraits and editing them so you can edit them like a pro so without further Ado let's dive into Lightroom
and let's get this video started all Exposure right so here we are inside a Lightroom and this is the photo that we're going to be working with this is of my good friend Olga shot
in turkey and uh in my opinion this door absolutely makes this photo but the first tip that we're going to run through is making sure you're nailing and correcting your exposure
one of the things you want to make sure you're always going to be doing and this is going to be a recurring theme in this video is making sure you're accurately depicting your
model in your shot you want to make sure they look like they do in real life and this is going to be irrelevant of the camera settings used the lenses use the light you were
shooting in you want to make sure they look real so first things first exposure so here I would say more or less this photo is actually pretty well exposed but if we zoom in here
on orca's face you can see there's a a little bit of light here it's not clipping whatsoever for example if I boost it up the highlights here we would definitely would be wanting
to bring down these highlights ever so slightly but that's what we're going to be doing anyway we don't want to be killing off all the life and light in this image but we do want
to be just a little bit decreasing the highlights ever so slightly now something I do in my shots as well is make sure that there is plenty of contrast so I'm just going to
increase the contrast a little bit this wasn't shot at Golden hour this was shot just after gold now but luckily we're not dealing with any harsh Shadows here and then of course
when we're talking about exposure we can't go past the tone curve so something I'm going to do here is just drop the Shadows just a little bit nothing too crazy and then I'm going
to increase the mid tones to make sure we're still giving a whole lot of life into the image through you know the light and making sure there's dark and bright parts of the image
but then I'm also going to because I don't want this to be super dark I don't want you know this area to be super dark and I also don't want the door to be super dark I'm just
going to raise the blacks ever so slightly now this is going to give a little bit of a fade over the entire image but it's a nice little trick to add to your portrait shots because
it does give them a more cinematic filmic look sure it doesn't look like film but it's a little bit more you know it's a little less digital let's call it that all right so now
we've corrected the exposure or at least we have in my opinion let's have a look at the before and the after let's move on to correcting the skin tone now once again we're pretty
lucky here Ultra skin is pretty much accurate to what it looks like in real life we shot with the right white balance and we're good to go but let's say you didn't shoot with the
right white right the white right the right white balance my goodness that's harder to say than it sounds that's how you didn't shoot with the correct white balance what you can do
here is you can dive into the basic panel here and you can simply either click on auto now this is going to give you a fairly accurate representation of what you should be working
with now this has made the image a lot cooler than what it was so in my opinion we might just warm it up a little bit and we're pretty much good to go from there but I think our
white balance is more or less on point and you can also pick up this little dropper here and then just click on something that is supposed to be Pure White sometimes it works
sometimes it doesn't Auto features aren't always that great and when they work they're amazing when they don't they suck but anyway what we want to be doing there is first of all
starting with the white balance and then we can move down into the hsl tab now this is somewhere that you can really go right or really go wrong with the main three colors are
going to be correcting the skin tone are the red or affecting the skin tone because you might not be correcting it are the Reds the oranges and the yellows of course all depending
on what your skin tone is and of course depending on what light you shot in so let's say for example let's take the Reds if we just kill off all the Reds we can instantly see
alka's lips and a few little aspects of her face go gray far from ideal so let's reset that and of course Orange that's not even a human and then in this instance yellow let's kill
all those off we're really not working with many yellows in the skin tone here at all we actually might be working with a few more yellows in the door if anything and that's
actually a really nice look let's kill off those yellows to make those whites in the door stand out a little bit more and be a little bit more white a little bit more contrast
everyone loves it so in my opinion here Oka skin tone is more or less dialed in if anything if absolutely anything we might increase the luminance of the orange just a little bit
to make a popper just a little bit more and maybe decrease the saturation of the orange a little bit maybe a little bit on the red saturation just ever so slightly and I'm pretty
sure we're good to go now you might be thinking yourself Zach we've hardly made an impact on this image whatsoever but that's actually a good thing if you can take a photo that
looks really accurate and when you put it into Lightroom you don't have to make that many changes that means you uh took a pretty good photo in person so this is an ideal kind of
shot to edit because it's showing you that if you nail it in camera believe me your your post processing workflow is going to be so much easier but this is more or less the basics
of correcting the skin tone of course we could dive into the masking tab here but that is going to be held for a little bit of a later tip a little bit of a later tool so don't
worry about that just yet let's move on okay so next up is making sure the skin is flattering let's be honest some days the skin just isn't that good and if you've got to go out to
shoot or maybe you've got a client deadline you don't really have a choice you've got to get in front of the camera or at least you've got to get someone else in front of the
camera and maybe they're not having the best skin day either in our situation here luckily Olga doesn't have any bad skin days going on whatsoever so we're in luck but it doesn't
always mean that a little bit of skin flattering couldn't go astray because to be honest with you the lenses and the cameras these days take such sharp photos that it's going to
pick up everything and sometimes it can go over the fact and just make things look Ultra sharp in my opinion I don't like this look whatsoever so what we're going to do is we're
simply just going to come into the basic tab here into the presence little sub Tab and then just drop the clarity and texture ever so slightly and you don't want to go overboard
with this so if we have a look in here if we're just dropping the clarity just a little bit it just gives it like a little bit of a subtle glow to the face which is beautiful but
if we drop the clarity like crazy this looks like it was shot on a Samsung Galaxy S3 in like 2011. so far from ideal but either way we're gonna undo that real quick either way this
is something I do to all of my shots regardless if it is a landscape photo or if it's a portrait photo I love the subtle glow that it gives and this is just super flattering on top
of if you have skin in your photo this is just going to make it look that little bit nicer so yes always ideal you can of course go into the masking tab with this as well and then
make fine little adjustments so if you don't want to be dropping the clarity like crazy on all the image just simply add a brush to your shop instead of me telling you why not I
just show you we could come in here hit brush and then just make this a little bit smaller let's say we wanted to just make this a little bit smoother we could come in here and
then just drop the clarity ever so slightly and then also just drop the texture and then more or less that is sorted and you'd never know from the before and after and by looking
at this maybe if it's a really up close shot it'll be a different story but at the moment this is looking great all right now let's move on to masking this is a really really
powerful one especially if you're dealing with some inconsistencies in the skin this can honestly save a shot so let's dive into Masking the masking tab here and before we add any
of our own masks Let's uh let's hit select people and what that's going to do is Lightroom is going to have a look at the photo use Ai and then they're going to show you exactly
what person shows up and then the crazy part is you can go in and you can select different parts of the person or you can select multiple parts of the person to make a mask and
it's going to save you a whole lot of time so for example let's say right here we want a body skin facial skin we wanted lips but not teeth that hasn't really nailed the lips side
of thing oh wait hold on yes it has of course it has uh it were a little oh my good goodness we're zoomed in we're a little bit off here but we can fix that up with a a brush there
and more or less that is all the skin all oh I don't want to hit that more or less that is all the skin done we can create that mask if we come back into people again we could then
select maybe all the clothes boom create mask again and now we have masks of pretty much everything in the shot apart from the hair Let's go people again let's have we got the hair
here we do my goodness this is overpowered and boom we've just saved ourselves about five to ten minutes of brushing and a little bit of annoyance with the auto mask tool and there
we go we've just saved all that time so this is something that I like to do with all my shots I want to make sure that I'm getting the absolute most out of my raw image and with
masks you can do that so alright so first things first you might be thinking yourself Zach this is really hard to see because it's green and that is just because my mask overlay is
green but you can turn your mask overlay off by pressing o and then o to turn it back on so this makes things a lot nicer something that I like to do to the hair a lot is to add
contrast so what we're going to do here is just increase the highlights ever so slightly and we're going to increase the contrast as well we don't want to go too harsh it's kind of
seeing this as a bit of a dark spot and we're just going to drop the Shadows a little bit maybe decrease the blacks and then what we can do is we can just hit this I turn it off
and on it's super super subtle hardly noticeable but it just kind of gives a little bit more depth to the hair and a little bit more contrast and like I said in the beginning of
this video I like contrast so I'm happy with that now with the clothes I would arguably arguably say the clothes are more or less dialed in if anything maybe just the highlights
down a little bit on the top but that's nothing serious and then the skin let's uh because we didn't use a mask for the whole skin last time to drop a little bit of clarity and
drop a little bit of the texture I think that's looking good and then maybe just add a slight amount of warmth into the skin tone nothing too crazy sometimes it's also good to add
a little purple but nothing too crazy also as you can see we're literally adding two and one into our shot this is hardly making a difference but just adding that little bit of a
touch and this is more or less my masking workflow I've of course sometimes it can be much longer and much more detailed than this but for this photo we're in luck which is
beautiful so one last mask that I do to pretty much all of my shots is I add a beautiful beautiful vignette to my shots which is just dropping the exposure to make Olga stand out a
little bit more from the shot and this works perfectly in portrait photos because of course if you're taking a portrait photo you want your subject to be the main focus of the shot
not the background and even though this background is really cool and it's definitely I can't I yeah definitely eye-catching we still want Olga to be the center of attention so
things are looking good here is our before here is out after and then last but not least we want to make sure we are dialing in the eyes so the eyes are the first things we look at
when we see a photo of someone and to be honest with you they're one of the things that people either do really well or do horribly wrong so what we're going to do is we're going
to add a brush mask or a brush mask and we're going to come in here we're going to decrease our feather down to 50 oh that's 51 that's going to annoy me 50. there we go and we've
got Auto mask turned on and then we're just going to come in here make it super small I kind of like to outline and then color in the middle there we go and you can of course do
this with both eyes if you're if you can see both eyes and then what a lot of people do is they come down to Clarity boom done dialed we're good to go now to be honest with you
that actually doesn't look too bad for this shot even though we are going to dial it down just a little bit but if you're looking directly into the camera and someone just boosts
the clarity of your eyes like crazy it does stand out like a sore thumb Which is far from ideal but some things I like to do with the eyes is make sure the white part is completely
white so what I do here is especially with brown eyes you don't have to worry about desaturating blues or greens so I simply just come in here I desaturate just a little bit and
then I also add a little bit of blue into the eyes and that just kind of makes sure everything looks nice and white in there and we've got before and after we can see the eyes
aren't too bright and nothing too crazy as is going on but there is a lot of contrast in there and it does definitely grab your attention and guys there we go Outro they are my
five portrait editing tips for Lightroom of course this is going to be Case by case scenario sometimes you're going to have to use more masking sometimes you're going to have to do
a whole lot more skin tone correction but this is how to do it these are the main ways that I navigate portrait editing inside a Lightroom and I've been doing this for the last
five years so hopefully I've been able to teach you a thing or two but with that said guys that is going to wrap up today's video I hope you've enjoyed and I'll catch you in the
next one peace All From the series From Zac Watson Adobe Lightroom Intro [Music] I've been taking photos professionally for nearly a decade now. And in that time, I've gone through
many different iterations of my editing workflow, leading to what works best for me. And in today's video, I'd like to cover that entire workflow. So, how do I color my images? and
then my entire editing process in Lightroom that makes the images go from raw files to what you see on the screen today, as well as export settings and all those other fun things.
So, this is a video that I've been meaning to make for a little while now, and I'm really excited to share with you guys the full process. But before we get into it, be sure to
subscribe to see more great photography content. So, the Culling with Narrative first step after a shoot is culling. And I used to just import everything into Lightroom and pick my
selections there, which worked all right, but it was pretty timeconuming. However, 6 months ago, a friend told me about this program called Narrative, and it has really sped my
pre-editing workflow up a lot. And if you've never heard about it, it's a really awesome program that pretty much lets you preview and cull images after a shoot. But you know what?
Let me just show you how it works cuz it's very easy and it's very quick. So, this is Narrative, and this is what it'll look like when you import your photos and create a project.
It has a layout similar to Lightroom, but it has a few awesome features under the hood that make it so much more efficient for sifting through huge amounts of photos. And the best
bit is that it is completely free to use as a coloring software. So, I'll have a link in the description if you want to check it out for yourself. Now, if you guys watched my video
last week on five easy tips to pose people who aren't models, these photos are from the shoot that I did with the actual models. And as you can see, I've taken over 900 photos in
this shoot. But with narrative, I can easily go through and cull things super quick. So this is the grid view, which is very reminiscent of Lightroom. But honestly, one of my
favorite features of narrative is if we press S, we go into the scenes view. Now, what scenes view is is it automatically groups similar images together based on framing and
composition. So instead of scrolling through dozens of nearly identical shots, I can actually really quickly and easily jump into each set. And just with my arrows, I can actually
flick through and compare the variations and I can pick the strongest one. And you also notice in scenes view images are highlighted blue, white, and red. So this is actually
analyzed with their AI assistant called first pass. And it determines what it thinks are potential pics, unlikely pics, and also undesirable pics. So that's the red ones there. And
you can also actually filter the images by what it's picked as well. So, you can see here if I just filter by potential picks, I've like wiped out almost 300 photos. That saved me
a lot of time already. Now, obviously, it hasn't removed the photos, you can still look at them if you want, but what I've noticed from using narrative is this AI assistant is
actually quite good at being able to tell shots that I probably would have called myself as well, and it does definitely speed up the workflow quite a bit. So, one more thing that
you'll notice is these two colored dots on each photo. Now, the top row describes their expression, and the bottom row is actually rating the focus of the shot out of 10. And if we
go over here to the color wheel, we can actually filter the image by what it considers to be in focus or not. Anything over an eight is considered excellent. So, as you can see,
eyes are closed, so it's red at the top, but the it was in focus, so it's green at the bottom. I can just quickly flick through and see. So, if both dots are green, great. But if
they're red, don't worry about it. So, this is perfect for portraits where you're making lots of tiny refinements across frames or if you're shooting an event and you have lots of
faces to go through. And speaking of faces, this is actually what really sets Narrative apart is the face analysis. So, if we hit the forward slash key, we enter face mode. So, now
narrative will automatically detect every face in a shot. And it shows me close-ups of each subject, zoomed in on the eyes, and highlights whether they're in focus or if the eyes
are closed. So, if we go where we've got two models in the scene, it'll show us both faces. and it automatically detects it and zooms in on the eyes as well. And this will actually
work with if you got like a big uh like a group photo with six or seven people in the shot, it'll actually show you each single person individually. So, it's very powerful. And it
means that you no longer have to zoom in manually. Now, you can zoom in with the space bar if you'd like, but this eye feature uh is awesome. And in combined with the scenes mode,
you can fly through an album. I mean, you got 922 photos here. You can fly through this album so so quickly. And the way that I rate these images is similar to how I was doing it
in Lightroom. Uh you just press one on the keyboard. So if I press one, it goes image rated one star. And then we can just go up here and it'll show us automatically all the photos
that we've rated. And so basically I'm just using literally just my keyboard. I'm just going up and down ranking. If you made a mistake, just press zero. It'll reset the rating.
But it's so easy to use. And so typically for a portrait session, I will try to get the number of photos down to around 50 to 60. Um, and I find that this number to be a good sweet
spot where the client gets more than enough photos and it saves you from editing far too much for weddings and event work. Obviously though, there should be far more keepers. But
let's quickly go through and I'll just cull this album of 922 photos for you and I'll speed the footage up and I'll just show you just how I do it and how quick and easy it is.
[Music] So once we've picked our images and we're happy with them, what we can actually do is we can go over here to ship and edit. We can pre-edit if we'd like. I'm not going to
use that at the moment. I don't personally use the the AI preset. I just use this as a as like a culling program. And then uh you got Lightroom Classic, Lightroom CC. It will also
work with Capture 1 um and Photoshop and stuff like that. I don't have those installed uh on this computer, so that's why they're not showing up here. Press ship 53 images.
Lightroom Editing Begins So here in the library tab, you can see all 53 photos that we sent over from Narrative Select. And if we head over up here to the develop tab, we can get
started on the editing process. Now, I wish that I could tell you that I have some crazy complicated editing method, but honestly, it's um pretty straightforward, and that
simplicity actually helps me work a lot faster and still get great results. So, to start with, I'll apply one of the presets from my uh two Lightroom preset packs, and I've
actually recently introduced a bundle deal where you can grab both packs at a discounted price. There's a link in the description, and every purchase helps to support me and this
channel. So, for this image here, we'll just apply effortless. And what you'll notice after you apply a preset is that the image probably won't look perfect straight away. And that
is completely normal as presets aren't meant to be one-click solutions. And I always make adjustments because it's impossible to create a preset that works perfectly in every
lighting condition. But when I've picked a preset that I like, what I'll do is I'll go through and I'll actually sync all the photos themselves. So what we need to do is we just go
here, select all of our images, and then hit the sync button here. And also when syncing I always uncheck white balance and exposure as that's because I shoot using auto white
balance and usually light can change between shots. So copying these values across the board usually gives you some um weird results. That being said, if you're shooting in a
studio and you have the white balance set to a specific figure, you can just enable all of these if you want. So we'll hit synchronize. And as you can see, it has now synced all
the images. Now, let's cover individual photo adjustments. So, first up is exposure. Exposure Adjustments Now, as you can see, this photo is a little bit underexposed. This is a
super easy fix. Just bump up your exposure slider over here. But something that I also like to do is I like to head down here to the tone curve, pull down the highlights a little,
and then raise the exposure. So, if we pull down the highlights and then raise the exposure, this gives us a more balanced, even tone across the image. Next, let's talk white White
Balance balance. So, this is really easy as well. Um, it's just these two sliders up here. So, if someone's skin tone looks a little bit green, you can add more magenta. And if
it's too warm, put in some blue. So, just move in the opposite direction of the color that you want to reduce and you're good. So, I mean, with this image here, she does look a
little bit too green. So, if we bring the purples in just a little bit, her skin tone starts to look a lot nicer. May add a little bit of blue as well. Just a teeny tiny bit. And
in a second, I'll cover another tool for dialing in specific colors, but let's just stick to the basics for now. So, one adjustment How To Add More Punch To Your Photos that I
really love doing is decreasing saturation slightly while increasing the vibrance. Now, what this does is it actually helps to retain natural skin tones while still giving your
image some pop. Saturation affects all colors equally. So if we reduce go back to zero for vibrance and we start to increase increase saturation as you can see all the colors are
being boosted including the skin. So cranking it can really easily lead to unnatural tones. However, vibrance on the other hand boosts the more muted colors without overcooking the
already overly saturated areas. So see as you can see once we raise it to like we can we can really push this. So once we raise like 49, it still looks great and it makes it really
ideal for subtle, more polished edits and I think it's just it just adds an extra level of something to the image. I really I really love doing this. I think yeah, raising the
vibrance up and reducing the saturation if used in moderation can add a lot to an image. We can also head up here to the profile tab. So if you're What Are Camera Profiles? working
with older cameras, so for example, let me go on to what a little image here. This is a image from the D700. we've synced that photo. Um, and the previous shots with the ZF, this
is the D700. It already looks different. So, what we can do first of all was again like in the other images, we'll raise the exposure up a little bit. Straight away, it looks a lot
colder than the previous images. Now, we could just add a little bit of warmth as we were talking about earlier. That immediately gives us a nice warmer image. But head over here
to the profile tab, go into browse. Um, and then we've actually got our camera matching profiles here. So, if we select camera standard. Now, his skin starts to look very yellow.
Um, so we'll bring the blues back in a little bit. Look, it's up to your discretion uh if you want to set it to camera standard or if you want to leave it in Adobe Color or choose
any of these other ones because as you can see the the difference it it makes. It's pretty substantial, right? Like it definitely looks pretty different. But the reason I like to
set everything in Adobe Color and the reason all the presets own Adobe Color is just to keep things consistent. So, for a shoot like this where I'm shooting with a, you know, I
think in this shoot I used four different cameras. So, setting it to be Adobe profiles just allows you to get a more consistent look throughout the shoot cuz you don't really want
like, you know, one image to look better than the other one. Um, you kind of want everything to be seamless. I also really The Importance Of Cropping like to crop my images. So,
with this photo here, for example, again, we we'll need to just raise the exposure up a little bit and then bring the white balance down. But, that actually looks great. And then
you just hit R and then you can really easily adjust it. Um, and then if you hit alt and shift at the same time, it actually uh will crop in from the inside as well. So go like
that. I think that looks quite nice. Um, and then maybe this photo actually will look better in black and white. So we can apply a black and white preset. And then as you can see,
we've got that S-curve that I was talking about earlier. If you want to add a little bit more darkness into there as well, we can do that, too. But definitely be sure to check out
my uh secret to perfect monochrome photos. I go a lot more in depth on shooting and editing black and white photos in that video. Next up, let's talk about the point color tool,
Tweaking Individual Colours which is seriously powerful for fine-tuning individual colors. Now, if we go down here, this is our point color tool. This eyropper here lets you target
any color in the image. So, for example, if I wanted to make her jeans a little bit more of a deeper blue, I just select them here. And then I can just go up and that gives us more
saturation. Or I can actually change the hue of the jeans as well. So, you want to make them more purple, you can do that. And I think it, you know, I think a slightly more
saturated look would actually look great because you've got the contrast between the orange and the blue. But you do want to be pretty careful with this because it will affect all
the colors in the image. So, if like you can see in the background here, you've got a little bit of the blue. So by saturating that it starts to affect here as well. So don't go
too crazy with it. But this tool is fantastic uh also for landscapes as well. Uh whether you want to intensify like the blue in the sky or like the green and the grass. And you can
actually also use it for skin tones. So for example, if we select uh usually I've in my presets I've usually tweaked the skin tones a little bit in the color mixer, but if we grab
the eyropper tool and we just pop it on her skin um we can actually play with this a little bit as well. So, we can if we just saturate it slightly, you'll see it makes her a
little bit more tanned. And then we can desaturate it if we want to make her a little bit more pale. Um, but since we're picking the orange color again, it is going to affect the
background, too. So, use this in discretion. Don't go too crazy with this. Next up, let's talk about retouching. Now, this is something Retouching Method 1 that I've never
personally gone too crazy with. And while you can go all out here, personally, I like to keep things super subtle. With retouching, your goal should be to make it look like it's
not been retouched. So, um, what we want to do is if we press the Q button, we'll get access to our remove, uh, tools over here. And I like to use the heel tool over here. So, the
little band-aid. So, for example, uh, with under eye bags like these ones here, we'll set we'll sort of paint underneath like so. Uh, being really careful to avoid the eyelashes as
well, cuz if you go over the eyelashes, that's where it starts to look really fake. And sometimes Lightroom will just select an area that it thinks it needs it needs to copy from.
Uh, usually that's always wrong. So, what I'll always do is I'll bring that area to be down the bottom. And then what we'll notice here is the opacity is currently set to 100. So,
if we turn this off, you'll see it looks quite fake. Like, it doesn't look great. So, what you want to actually do is when you're doing these sort of um when you're doing creases
and underey bags and sort of those areas that are more like we we just want to reduce the appearance of them. We don't want to completely eliminate them. Um set your opacity down
to around about 50 or 60. And what you'll notice is that immediately it's removed that crease, but the crease is still visible. So, it doesn't look super fake. And then what you
want to also do as well is if you've just got a few areas underneath and sometimes it'll really go to the wrong spot, but we can do that. And then you just kind of play around with
it until it starts to look right. Now, if we want to reduce it even further, we can always raise the opacity a little bit. It's it's there's no like golden rule to this, but you
