camera with you and 9:529 minutes, 52 secondsconstantly thinking like a photographer is one of the best ways that you can train your vision. Now, my camera of choice is the Fuji
X100 6. I'll put a 10:0010 minuteslink to that video up there. You guys can check out my review on this camera. 10:0310 minutes, 3 secondsBefore this, I had the Fuji X100V. Now,
you don't need an expensive camera like this. You can pick up a super cheap camera, or you can even use your iPhone. 10:1110 minutes, 11 secondsThe image quality is really not the
point. The point is noticing things that are beautiful when you're out and about and training your vision as a photographer. So, if you do want to get 10:1910 minutes, 19
secondsbetter at taking photos, pay attention every time you leave the house. Notice the light. Notice the colors. Notice the compositions that you see in the wild. 10:2610
minutes, 26 secondsAnd ideally, take a picture of it, even if it's not all that interesting. Now, the next tip on this list is for those of you that spend way too much time Chapter
5: Tip #4 10:3410 minutes, 34 secondsfocusing on either the sharpness of your image or the image quality of your photo, and you think that if your photo is not super sharp or it
doesn't have 10:4110 minutes, 41 secondsreally good image quality, then that photo sucks. Well, I hate to break it to you, but the sharpness and the image quality of your photos
mean very little 10:4910 minutes, 49 secondsin the grand scheme of things. So, for example, do you want your photos to be known for being sharp? Or do you want your photos to be
known for being 10:5610 minutes, 56 secondsbeautiful? Because there's a very big difference between those two things. A photo really does not need to be sharp or have high
megapixels in order for 11:0311 minutes, 3 secondsthat photo to be beautiful. Look at all of the greatest photos of all time. What do you think makes those photos so powerful? I
can tell you one thing. It 11:1111 minutes, 11 secondsis definitely not the image quality of those images because a lot of these photos were shot on super old cameras and really
old glass. No. But what makes 11:1811 minutes, 18 secondsthese photos so incredibly powerful is the story that these photos are telling. 11:2211 minutes, 22 secondsIt's the
combination of light, color, composition, subject matter, and how all of these factors come together to tell a powerful story that stands the test of 11:3111 minutes, 31
secondstime. The story that a photo tells is by far and away the most important thing. 11:3511 minutes, 35 secondsAnd when I was just starting out with photography, I was really
obsessed with having super sharp images. I was watching all these videos about making sure my images were sharp and export 11:4411 minutes, 44 secondssettings and making sure my
camera had high enough megapixels. But one of the things I've started to realize over the years is that sometimes I actually like 11:5111 minutes, 51 secondsphotos that are less
sharp because they do a better job of telling a more meaningful story about the thing that I was photographing. There's really no 11:5811 minutes, 58 secondsneed to obsess about
sharpness and image quality. If your camera was made in the last 10 years or so and you spent at least a few hundred on it, chances are 12:0612 minutes, 6 secondsit's more than
good enough to capture super powerful images. With that said, of course, you do need gear to take photos. And if you are in the market to 12:1312 minutes, 13 secondsbuy a new
camera or a new lens, I have a free photography gear buying guide. I'll put a link down in the description. You guys can download that completely free. Chapter 6: Tip #5 12:2112
minutes, 21 secondsNow, I want to start this next tip off with telling you a little fun fact about myself. And that is my vision absolutely sucks. And I don't mean my vision as a
12:2812 minutes, 28 secondsphotographer. I mean my vision as a human being physiologically. My vision is like 2010 or something. And I'm very much nearsighted. But I also choose
not 12:3712 minutes, 37 secondsto wear glasses because I actually think it makes me a better photographer. Let me explain. One of the biggest pitfalls so many beginner
photographers fall into 12:4612 minutes, 46 secondsis focusing so much on the details of a scene and not seeing things at a bigger picture. And one of the things I've realized is
that because I can't always 12:5412 minutes, 54 secondssee all the details in front of me, it allows me to see the scene kind of as a whole. It allows me to break the scene down
into shapes and light and color and 13:0313 minutes, 3 secondsthen compose my shots based on that. And that's why this next tip is if you're out shooting, try unfocusing your eyes
when you're looking at your composition. 13:1113 minutes, 11 secondsWhen you unfocus your eyes, you kind of break that scene down into its most fundamental building blocks and then
you can compose based on that. And this is 13:1913 minutes, 19 secondsgreat because it allows you to not get too sucked up on the details in that scene, but rather see the scene as
a whole. This is especially useful for 13:2813 minutes, 28 secondscomposition. And I actually talked about this same tip in my composition video because I think it's so crucial and
so high level. And a lot of photographers can really benefit from trying this. 13:3613 minutes, 36 secondsNow, this is also super effective in the editing phase as well. And if
you're editing an image and you're just really struggling with the colors or the 13:4413 minutes, 44 secondscontrast, try unfocusing your eyes and kind of breaking that scene down
a little bit and just looking at it through a new lens, if that makes sense. 13:5013 minutes, 50 secondsI know this might sound a little gimmicky, but I promise it works. So, go
out and try this and let me know in the comments down below how it worked for you. Now, the last tip on this list is Chapter 7: Tip #6 13:5913 minutes, 59 secondsbe okay with
taking bad photos as a photographer. I know it's hard to believe, but your favorite photographer that you follow on Instagram or on 14:0714 minutes, 7 secondsYouTube or wherever
they are takes terrible photos most of the time they go out and shoot. Myself included. If I go out on a shoot and I walk away with one 14:1614 minutes, 16 secondsabsolute banger
image, that is a massive win for the day. And most of the time, that's not even what happens. I'll go out and I'll shoot and I'll shoot a 14:2414 minutes, 24 secondsthousand
photos. And to be honest, I'm not going to be happy with most of those images because once you grow as a photographer, your standards are going to continuously raise as well until
it 14:3314 minutes, 33 secondsgets to the point where everything has to be spot-on. The lighting, the subject matter, the color, the composition, and sometimes that's not always
going to be 14:4114 minutes, 41 secondsthe case. Now, I think this is also equally as important as a beginner photographer because if you're a beginner and you go out and your
standards are too high and you shoot a 14:4814 minutes, 48 secondsthousand photos and they all suck, you're probably going to feel pretty damn bad about yourself after that shoot.
But you need to recognize that 14:5614 minutes, 56 secondsevery time you take a bad photo, you're still learning what actually looks good in a photo. Because if you can't recognize
bad photos, then you can't recognize the good photos either. And 15:0415 minutes, 4 secondsbuilding off of that, if you want to shoot more good photos, then you need to go out and
shoot more. Because a lot of the time, like I said, you're going to go out and shoot. you're not going to get anything good. But the more you shoot, the luckier you're going to
get. 15:1515 minutes, 15 secondsAnd this is especially the case with things like street photography or landscape photography, which are very serendipitous and they highly depend on
15:2215 minutes, 22 secondsa lot of environmental factors like the light or the people that are walking through your scene. And a lot of the time you'll go out and shoot a sunset
and everything seems like it's all lined 15:3015 minutes, 30 secondsup and then boom, a cloud rolls in and then your photo sucks. Same thing can happen in a city. There's a person
standing in the right place. You get your camera up and then they walk away and that shot is gone forever, right? 15:4015 minutes, 40 secondsBut the more you shoot, the luckier
you're going to get. But those are just some of the highle tips that I've picked up on over the last 10 years as a photographer. And I know that there's 15:4815 minutes, 48
secondsstill so many more out there. By no means is this list exhaustive. And I still have an entire list of tips that I think you guys can benefit from. So if 15:5515 minutes, 55
secondsyou guys do want to see a part two or a part three to this video, let me know in the comments down below. I would love to share those ideas with you guys. But I 16:0316
minutes, 3 secondsreally hope you guys enjoyed this video and I would love to chat with you in the comments. So, just drop a comment down below if you liked it or if you had any
thoughts on some of the things that I 16:1016 minutes, 10 secondsdiscussed in this video. I would greatly appreciate that. But that is all for this one, guys. Thank you so much for
making it to the end of this video. And also, thank you so much Skillshare for 16:1916 minutes, 19 secondssponsoring this video. I greatly appreciate it. And I will chat with you
guys again very soon in the next one. 16:2616 minutes, 26 seconds[Music] Sync to video time All From Sean Dalton Fujifilm X series if you've ever thought yourself man how do these
professionals manage to edit boring photos into masterpieces but just sliding a few simple Sliders in Lightroom well then you managed to come to the right place my friend you see
for the last 10 years or so I've been editing photos on a consistent basis and in this video right here I want to share with you 10 adding secrets that you might not know about
that the professionals use all the time and by the way the last one oh it's an absolute game changer all right so the first step is this my friends let's say we are working with a
moody photo like you can see right here and we want to make it a little bit more Moody and bring out that fog and moodiness that is so beautiful when you're working with photos
like this now what I would do I would first think okay the mood is coming in here or the mood the fog is coming in here and I want to enhance that so I click mask I go plus and we
add a linear grading filter and I drag it down something like this here now it's up to you how much you want to take it over the subject but uh in my case we can do it something
something like this here all right now what I would like to do is if I go down here I add take down the dehaze it makes this Misty effect but can't do too much cuz that was be like
a little bit too obvious but we take it down ever so slightly then down with the clarity to soften it up you can even take down the texture and then the cool thing that you can
also do is with the tone curve we can actually take up the black so the blacks aren't as black and this makes it a little bit Gray and adds this Fade to it and look if I take it
all the way up you can see what happens this is obviously too much but adding a slight Fade to this is something that I really really really much enjoy and then in my opinion is
just playing with these three until I find a like balance that I think looks absolutely sick now number two is something that I absolutely love to do and that's this so I'm working
with this photo and it's absolutely like perfect to do it here because we are back lit and what I would do now is that uh I would create a mask like this and we create a linear
gradient just like so all right so I'm covering the entire photo okay this is good H for the sake of the tutorial then what I would like to do is to drag down the clarity and I'm
softening the entire photo softening the highlights down with the texture a little bit down with the dehaze just ever so slightly and then I would even take up the exposure just a
tiny tiny bit up with the whites tiny tiny bit and down with the highlights just a little bit now what I've done now is that I've softened the entire photo and my aim is to create
this dreamy glow effect also known as the oron effect now it's not perfect here because then through oron effect only affects the highlight and it's this beautiful filmic dreamy
glow that I personally am a huge fan of now to able to get into just the highlights what we need to do then is to do a little you know magic to the mask so click the mask right
here or you can right click the mask and then you go to intersect with luminance range click that now basically what you're doing now is that you can take away so the mask is just
affecting the Highlight so by dragging up here and if you click show the rumin you can see that now the mask is just affecting the Highlight areas you see so this is ABS this is so
cool and then you can also take this and you can fade it out so if it's all the way here it's like a hard stop but here it's gradually becomes less and less so it fades out and
this makes the like effect that we just made this like a soft dreamy glow effect just affecting the highlights and then gradually to the Shadows really mimicking this dreamy glow
effect and I absolutely love this number three is a fairly new slider that I think is such a nice addition to the Lightroom and all the magic that we can do here and it's this so
in the tone curves I just create a little like S curve like this we can do down with the Shadows then we can take up the the the highlights making a big contrast now usually when
you do this you will see that you get a lot of contrast but also the colors like you get a lot of punch in the colors and they become really saturated especially the orange colors
you can see right here so the new SL that I'm talking about is down here and this this refine saturation so basically you can now play with the saturation as well in combination
with the tone curve so if you drag it all the way down you can see that the photo isn't as saturated so the contrast that you're making with tone curve isn't affecting the
saturation as much which I think is a beautiful addition cuz now we have just more control when it comes to to uh making our beautiful masterpieces that we're trying to do so
number four is something that speeds up my work process tremendously and that is this here so I'm working with this photo and I click mask I click plus and Sky now this is not the
tip although this like AI Sky mask it's pretty sick cuz it's also speed UPS my workflow but what I want to do is that I want to select the entire foreground usually in the past I
would just do a brush and painting here but what I can do with the sky mask is just to Simply right click it and then go invert and we have a pretty beautiful mask that is
affecting our TI foreground and now we can go and do our all changes like this here ah it's too much but you get what I'm you know saying so number five also has to do with the sky
mask but it's about making it a lot better so here for instance when you click a plus and click the sky mask Lightroom creates a perfect mask around your Sky however it makes
really harsh edges which can kind kind of be a little bit um what do you say is not really like maybe the reality would be if you do the changes right now you can see that there's
a hard edge here so what I would like to do is that with the sky mask I right click I go intersect with and then linear gradient and then I just uh do a gradient from the top down
to the bottom like this so it makes a little bit softer and a smoother transition from the foreground than usually I'm photographing mountains so it's not as harsh of a transition
here to the sky mask which is something that I personally like a whole lot now tip number six is honestly like something that is almost too good to share and when I learned this
technique it took my editing skills like instantly I'm not even kidding to new heights and I'm going to show you it in a second first I just want to show you guys that I recently
made a brand new preset pack this is like over 28 different presets that I used to edit all of my photos and all of the things that you see me post on social media now personally I
think this is pretty smart how I've organized it I have the creative presets which are more of these stylized presets that are aimed to do like this not maybe one click wonder I
don't really believe presets are to use that but more stylized look and then I have the foundational presets which I personally use more to set a base tone and then I can work out
of it for instance here I just click a base tone for the winter photos and I mean few clicks later the photo looks pretty nice and then I also have some seasonal presets that I use
for autum photos summer photos and winter photos a few Porter photos cuz sometimes I take you know pters as well and then I also have these overlays which are something that I
absolutely love if you want to have a dreamy glow effect I basically just click the dreamy glow and we get that like I showed you in the beginning and just to show you for this
photo here I just click Golden Dream and we have get a beautiful base tone and I usually don't like to mess with my white balance in the preset cuz photos you know are different
how the white balance is based on the lighting condition that you find yourself in but afterwards I would just add this up a little bit and then maybe take up the Shadows ever so
slightly and boom I mean this looks pretty good and this didn't take a whole lot of time and personally I use presets to ensure like a base tone and same tones to my photos and
then to speed up my workflow tremendously this is taking me like years to create it's my first pre pack that I release in many many years and I'm extremely like happy with it so in
description you can find a link which you take it to this pack if you buy it you're not only get like some sick looking pres that I use but also you support me at the same time so
I really much appreciate it now my friends let's go to tip number six now number six when I'm working with a photo like you see here what I like to do is to click the mask I click
plus and I go to a gradient filter and then I a lot of mask on this photo as you can see I like mask a whole lot that is not a secret no secret okay but I make a mask like this and
my aim is to put it just on the sunset itself and this is great when I'm shooting into the sun in a beautiful like in a sunset environment so what I'm doing really I feather it out
quite a lot so you can see here what I'm doing I'm Feathering this out like this and then we have this mask that is like kind of just here we can fether out all the way what I'm
doing now is that I want to enhance the sunlight and make it prettier and how I do that is that I go down here and first what I can do is to do a temperature slider to take it up
so this just basically makes to the orange we get the little bit more orange tones to the sunset all right then what I would like to do is I go down here and drag the DEH slider
just down ever so slightly what that does is just makes the um it it makes the sunet become a little bit more softer and little bit Mist to it which I think is really really pretty
but too much and it obviously looks whack so it's all about the subtle movements here so we don't do it ever so slightly down with a Clarity tool to make it bloom a little bit but
what they tend to do when you do this is you lose that little bit of the oomph and color so to re introduce that I usually take up the contrast just a little bit and then it's just
a balance of playing with the temperature slider and maybe you can play with the saturation if that is something that you desire all a tip number seven I think it's seven we are I
hope so last time I did a video like this I made a total mistake there somewhere and I got some comments so uh if you want to roast me you can do that but any I think we're on tip
number seven and that is a little like technique I use to make my photos more three-dimensional and what I mean by that is it's perfect when you have a subject like this so let's
say I want to make this photo more threedimensional because that is pretty sick so I go up to mask and I click plus and then I go to select background now what this does it just
selects the entire back background and leaves out this subject now what I would like to do then is to H click on it right click go intersect with mask and then linear gradient and
then we can just drag it up like this now this is so cool because it just leaves out the and we press h to see them see the here because it just leaves out the subject while uh we
can like take it over it like this now in a perfect world uh the mask wouldn't be affecting the foreground here I would probably go click the plus and then paint on there but for
the sake of tutorial we're going to pretend that it's just the bird that is not affected okay so what I would do now with the foreground I would uh like take down the exposure like
this take it down something like this here to darken it so something like this here I think is pretty cool and then on the with do another one plus click background and this time
we click right click we to go intersect with mask linear gradient but we take it from the top all the way down like this and from the top I would like to brighten it up so usually
I throw a little bit of exposure but I'm a big fan of using the DEH High sler slider this is if we do it like really intensely but we take it down like this down with the clarity a
little bit and then maybe down up with the whites tiny bit and we can take down the highlights just to compensate for that and there are multiple times where I personally find
myself using this technique because it's just such a simple way to again make the photos more threedimensional and give that that pop factor that you know oom that we're all
looking for now number eight is a really cool technique that I find myself using from time to time so this is maybe not the best photo to show it in but I want to do it anyway so
stick with me okay so here let's say I want to change the color of just this shoe here and we can see it yellow now the problem if we want to do that in Lightroom is that the if
you want to change the yellow Hue and we take it down it's going to change the yellow Hue everywhere and that's why usually it's better to go to photoshop unless you know what I'm
about to show you right now so what you can do is to click mask once again yes I love mask and then we can create a mask around this here so I click brush I make sure to have the
auto mask on and then we just brush this right here I would probably re find this and make this better but for the sake of the tutorial my friends you don't want to sit there all
night long with me although we having a good me and you then we just leave it as this right now now what I would do then to change this is that there are two things that you can
play with you can either play with the Hue right here so here changing the Hue all together or if you this point color click this pen click on it and now you are just changing the
Hue of the yellow on the mask all right which is pretty damn cool cuz you don't only change the Hue you can also change the saturation move it to the side change the Hue move it
down change the saturation and here you also can change the luminance so it's just like using a HL slider but on a localized place this you can do anywhere that you want my friend
the uh you know the world on the Lightroom is your oyster all right so tip number nine is so cool it's such a sick honestly this is just a hack this is a hack the other things has
been like tips what I'm about to show you now is a hack so when you're like photographing you often have a dust on your you know sensor dust and no I'm not just going to show you
the regular barding way on how to remove sensor dust I'm going to show you the cool way on how to do it so if you go here to the spot tool this is basically a spot removal tool and
you can just click on anything and Lightroom is going to remove that which is pretty damn sick but the problem is you might not see all of the Dust so what do you do my friends you
can go down to head to visualize spots click it and now you can see all of the Dust really easily if you have lens Dust In The Sky it's super easy to see it cuz now you're going to
click on it here you can see all of these uh like ugly spots that I have here and it makes it really easy to now go and remove them because I can see them much easier and then I
can like Define refine how like much you want to see it take it down here now you can I know my friends maybe you're not excited about Lightroom as me but for like me in my world I
saw this first time and my mind was just like and then I got incredibly happy number 10 my friends is without a doubt one of the biggest game changer that I've had recently to my
ading game and that is this here so as you can see and as you noticed and those of you follow me and watch this if you watch the video Until Now you see that I like to use a whole
lot of mask now creating all of these masks is takes a little bit of time and I also find myself doing the same masks over and over again so what you can do is that you know that
you have a mask that you use a whole lot like darkening the foreground or brightening the sky or brightening one corner or the other corner or brightening in the center is you can
actually create presets out of it making so-called overly preset so as you can see in my preset pack is I have here brightening Sky we can do uh also here the uh Center pop which
is brightening the the pop the the middle but the cool thing is that when you use a preset out of it is that if you click it now you can then manipulate the intensity or the amount
of the preset so if you if this is too much like this you can just take it down making this entire process much faster I think this is like three different masks you you see it's
this mask this mask and this mask that are a part of the center pop so I made made three mask in a single you know C so so so cool we want to make the foreground darken the
foreground just click here and then you can do the amount so the way that you create this is basically you make the mask that you think are cool and you want to save as a preset
and then you go up to the presets click the plus sign create preset and then you just click whatever mask that you want to have included in this preset make sure to take away all
of the other things here and just have the mask and then you name the preset and then there you go a cool little tip too is that I would actually go uh on this here and I would
right click it and rename name and name it whatever it is it's just a nice little organization tip to keep everything a little bit more organized which is like when you're a
creative like me it's it's good to have that and if you and yes I'm talking to you my friend want to take your eding skills to the very next level the next you need to watch this
video right here because this simple adding technique will take your Lightroom skills or improve your Lightroom skills by 99% All From THAT ICELANDIC GUY. Adobe Lightroom This
video is brought to you by Squarespace. If you need a website or domain, check out squarespace.com. Hey everyone and welcome to a new video. Are you looking for new tools in
processing your photos to help take them to the next level? Like from this to this and this to this? By far the most powerful tool that has helped take Lightroom Classic to the
next level is the use of masks. And with each new software update, the increasing power of these masks. In fact, I'm using Photoshop less and less as these are getting so good. In
this video, I'll show you my top tips for taking your use of masks to the next level with my top masking tips and tricks. My name is Simone Dontram and I'm a professional nature
and wildlife photographer living in Eastern Canada. I make weekly videos giving you photo tips or taking you behind the scenes for nature photography. Subscribe if you want to see
more. [Music] Okay, a quick intro about what we're talking about here. A mask is a tool in Lightroom that allows you to select only parts of the image such that when you apply an
effect like changing exposure or dnoising or changing the white balance, it only applies to the selected area. A reminder that hitting O on the keyboard will show your mask in red
by default. Also, masks in Lightroom can be created using different selections like gradients, selecting your subject or background, or even an object, or be made to select certain
brightnesses or colors. Being able to creatively use these masks and control them to do what you want is what this video will teach you. Let's get into it. My first tip is quite a
basic one, and it's to change the opacity of your mask overlay to help you see what's going on in your photo. Uh, here's a photo I took of a lion in Zambia recently. This guy was a
beauty. Check this out. Uh, he's a really good-looking fellow. But let's say I want to make some changes to my subject here. And I want to create a mask on the subject. I create
masks. I hit masks, subject, and of course, this will create a mask on my subject. And I can use it to increase the contrast, change the exposure. And as I mentioned in my intro,
hitting O on the keyboard will reveal your mask. But there's a problem here. If I make a mask here on my subject, I see here that it's imperfectly chosen the background or back leg
uh here on my subject. And I'd like to clean that up in my mask. But there's a problem here. The mask overlay in red is so bright and saturated that I can't really see what's going
on underneath it. I'd like to remove the overexposure, but I can't tell what is back leg and what is background. So, if you click right here and click color overlay settings, you
can reduce the opacity. And the advantage of reducing the opacity is you can kind of better see what's going on. But, as you can see here, I can still clearly see where my mask is.
Now that I've reduced the opacity, I can click subtract from mask. Click a brush here and I can brush out the area that I didn't want selected. Just a quick note that by reducing
the opacity of your mask and understanding by hitting O, you can turn it on and off is a great way of better understanding what parts of your mask is doing a good job and not so
good job so that you can refine the mask later. My next tip is to show you a handy use of the object mask. You might usually think of using the object mask to select a barn or a
fence post or some object in your subject, but it has another use. Let's say here on these giraffe, they're crossing a river in Zambia recently. And if I click the mask tool, click
on subject, I can create a mask around my subjects. But there is a problem in that it has selected the background as my earlier example did between these giraffes. Now, I can use a
subtract brush here, and I can try to brush out the overspray, but that's kind of a lot of work. Here's a better way. Click subtract and hit select object. And all you need to do
in these spaces is just draw a box around the overspray area and it will remove them. Voila. So, a quick way to find gaps or areas in your mask that need removal. It doesn't need
to be, per se, an object. It just needs to be a shape that looks different from your subject. The next thing I'd like to show you is how to fine-tune and adjust radial gradients.
They're really handy, and the beauty is that you can change their shape, their opacity, and also their feathering. And it's really handy to be able to do that. So, let's look at my
photo here of Peggy's Cove Lighthouse here in Nova Scotia. I was able to catch a beautiful sunst star here. And if I show you by shooting at f18 and by shooting at a very small
aperture, the aperture blades cause reflections which cause these sun stars. So if you get a fine point and you can hide that fine point behind an object, a tree, a lighthouse, a
rock, a person, get it half hidden, a bright point source of light half hidden with a very small aperture and you will get these sun stars. So, but what I'd like to do here, let me
take a quick crack at this image, which is very dark. It was the darkest of a three exposure uh attempt at uh bracketing my exposures, but I actually like the dark one the most as
it was. So, I'm just going to raise the exposure a little bit, lower the highlights a bit. But what I can do here, I like to really magnify this effect of the sunstar. So, I'm
going to create a radial gradient. So, you click mask radial gradient. Then you click on the screen and you drag in one direction and it will help create this circle here. Now I
can move this around by clicking on the center pin and moving it around. I can also feather it by clicking the red dot here on the inner circle and the center area gets the full
effect. The area next to it gets a graduated feathered effect and then outside the circle gets no effect. And you can see here in red where that happens. So I'm going to uh lower
the exposure quite a bit here just to show you the effect of what's going on here. Of course now as well I'm going to raise the effect again too much of course but just to show you
what's going on. I can also change the shape of the radial gradient by clicking on one of these pins on the sides. Now if you want to change the size but you don't want to change
the shape. You hit shift at the same time and it will retain the same shape and size. But you can make it more oblong if you want. And if once you've done this, see this outer pin
right here? You can click on this to move it around. You can also go off to the sides here and you'll see that it makes two little arrows and you can click and drag and change the
shape of this as well. Now what I would want to do on this particular situation here is if I place this over the sunstar, double click on the pen to change the exposure. If I go to
the clarity slider, see what happens when I raise the clarity slider, I kind of make that effect pop a little bit more. And then what you can do, of course, is you can play with
the feathering here to see how much or how little of the effect you would like to do. So, that's a way of playing around with these radial gradients, which are really handy for
adding special effects in areas that are mostly round or oblong in shape. That way, you can adjust it to fine-tune the feathering and fine-tune the shape and orientation. The next
tool that I use a lot in masking and that I'd like to show you how to adjust is the linear gradients. So, here I'm going to click on linear gradient. And what I like to do
sometimes in my photos, like this one, this is a loon flipping a crab. I was lucky to get it just mid flip between the two mandibles. Makes for a great looking photo. It needs some
more adjustment maybe by for example uh raising the shadows to get a bit more detail on the subject and so on. But one of my challenges here is the water. It looks just uniform and
flat and doesn't have a lot of gradients or anything different in it. It just looks that flat light blue. So what I'm going to do here is create a linear gradient. And what you do
after you've clicked linear gradient, you click on the screen and drag in one direction. And that stretches the gradient. You'll see here. Now, if I lower the exposure, and that's
what I like to do at the very bottom of my frame. Going to lower the exposure by clicking on this top pen. You can raise and lower the gradient. You can see here by the overlay
that's in red. You can also clip the very top pen here and spin it. That way you can change the orientation. You can also change that by clicking on this middle line along the
sides here and you can twist and tilt your gradient as well. If you click on the center box, it will move the whole gradient up uniformly without changing the feathering. So the
area underneath here gets 100% of your effect. The area in the center here gets a feathered effect. the area up top here gets a more feathering to the point of when it hits the top
there's no effect left. So I will move this around here a bit and just lower the exposure a bit. And something that I do for some photos like this I might do what I call my
sandwich technique is create another linear gradient from the top and lower that as well. And that just gives a little bit of effect of making a uniform background a little bit
more dynamic. So that helps you choose how to adjust these linear gradients. And of course, as I mentioned, you can move them around sideways as well if that's what suit the photo
the best. And now, thanks to the sponsor of this video, Squarespace for making it possible. If you haven't heard of them, they're an all-in-one website platform that helps you
create your website from scratch, just like I did. You don't need any coding experience or even to be techsavvy. They have lots of templates to choose from to make it easy to get
your own website up and running in no time. Now, even though they have great templates like the ones for photography that I might use, for example, the place to go now is to use
their new design intelligence feature using both Squarespace's experience and cuttingedge AI helping you to tailor your own website to your own specific needs. It can even help you
write text to describe your business or help you with search engine optimization. It looks really professional to have online galleries and your own domain. And a website is also a
great way to monetize your work by setting up an online store using Squarespace payments, which you can set up with just a few clicks. You can even do buy now and pay later with
options like Afterpay. Go to squarespace.com to sign up for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com/simon for 10% off your first purchase of a website
or domain. The next thing I want to show you is how to copy masks because you may end up with a photo that you have the same effect that you want to replicate over and over again.
I'll show you how to do that. Here in this photo of a lighthouse, there was actually a sun setting on the right hand side, but it had just gone in over the horizon. So, there's no
direct light, but there was a glow coming from that part of the sky, but it doesn't really show up very well here in the rocks. And I think if it did, it would add a really nice
effect and to show it in the way I really saw it with my own eye. So, the areas that were less well illuminated were darker and more brightly illuminated were brighter. And you
could change this a bit by adding some contrast might do that, but I'm going to do this using some masks. So, I'm going to create a radial gradient. And if I take one and put one
here, for example, this area right here was darker because it had less direct light going on it for example. Uh, if I hit on the center pen here, right click, duplicate radial
gradient, it'll make me a separate one. And for example, this area here that's right behind this lump of rock here. It'll do the same thing. And I can create another one right
here. Right click, duplicate. Another one right here. Again, duplicate another one. This area here that has less direct light. Now, what you need to be cautious of though is that
when you do the duplication here, I'm going to exaggerate this on purpose. Whatever you make for an effect, it's the same effect on everyone. So, you only use this technique where
