phrase and I'd put it into chatbt. You could use claude or any large language model. and you tell it, "Give me uh 10 viral thread posts that are similar to this." And it would give
you 10. And I would literally post all 10 of them. And the ones that went the most viral out of that 10, I would then take that and I'd put it into the model and I'd say this is
the one that worked the best and to produce 10 more. And I would literally post 10 to 50 times a day. And that generated a lot of traffic. So threads is super slept on. There is
it's a great traffic source. So take advantage of it. utilize it for, you know, your business or whatever you're trying to do. Typically, when you do go viral like that, they're
not like, if you're using it for business, it's not necessarily your ideal client that's going to see it. It's just large mass of traffic. So, going viral, like how valuable it is
to you is really, you know, determined on how you use it. I've seen some people going viral and selling like small products, like dollar products or, you know, $5 products. That
could actually be super smart. So, that's a good way to approach it. The second thing I do to go viral on threads is threads for whatever reason is super powerful locally. So for
example, we opened up a podcast studio in LA and I would make a threads post and be like who in LA wants to do a podcast with me today or this week or whatever and that particular
thread would go crazy. So it's really good regionally. Same for I'm in Vegas. So who wants to do a podcast in Vegas? It would do a lot of traffic. A lot of people comment. But same
thing, you could do like, "Hey, my Vegas people check in." Or, "Hey Vegas, what do you think about this weather? LA, what's the best food place to eat?" Right? Like, if you could
figure out those phrases and figure out how to leverage them for your business, it could do really good for you. And the third way to go viral on threads is rage baiting. Again, I
don't super recommend this if you're sensitive or uh take comments on the internet personal, but it works very well. I didn't do this intentionally, right? Like I made a comment
about LA was like there are not nice people in LA. And again it's regional and it's polarizing. So LA people went hard on it and it went viral. Probably not the most positive
messaging but it works effectively. So if you could make polarizing statements that won't get you banned. Like again I said people in LA are not very nice. You could say place
aren't very nice. Prove me wrong. Whatever. And you'll get some polarizing comments in it. And those are the pretty much three strategies going into 2026 that you could use to go
viral on threads. I wanted to keep this video short and sweet for what's working in 2026. Uh comment below what works best for you and we'll see you on the next video. Peace. All
From Oscar Cardona Entrepreneurship Strategies Computer Science Learning Related Recently uploaded Watched So Threads is currently the most underrated social media platform on the
internet. And the funny part is nobody's taking it serious. We've generated over 10 billion impressions on Twitter and LinkedIn for our clients at my content agency. A few months
ago, we started secretly posting on Threads, just the same content from our other platforms. If you don't know, Threads is the platform that Zuckerberg launched a few years ago as
the quote Twitter killer. It's essentially just like a copype clone of what X has always been. And even lately they just released the DMs feature and the community notes feature.
So they are making like a like forl like copy paste of X. And for a short time people said threads would be the Twitter killer. You would see all these huge news outlets saying
that threads is the Twitter killer and what is Elon going to do? And I think it's just cuz they hated Elon because after a few months you never heard about it again. But low-key
over the past few years they've been slowly gaining their user base. They've been increasing the amount of content creators coming to the platform and they even just started
releasing some new features like the DMs and the community notes. And now the results we're seeing are actually pretty crazy. I'm starting to see more organic reach for small
accounts on threads than I've seen on Twitter or LinkedIn over the last 3 years. We're seeing accounts gain thousands of followers 100% organically with content that we're just
repurposing from Twitter. So, it's literally the same amount of work for more results. So, in the next few minutes, I'm going to show you how to blow up your account on Threads,
the strategies we're implementing right now to get a ton of organic reach, and then I'm going to give you a quick step-by-step playbook of how you can implement this for yourself
today. So, even if you downloaded Threads when it first launched, you opened the app, you saw a bunch of posts and were like, "Okay, this place sucks." That's kind of what I did.
I'm going to actually show you a way that you can blow up with the same amount of work that you're doing on Twitter and LinkedIn. It barely requires any additional effort. I'm
going to show you how to automate yourself to repurpose the content and let yourself grow in the background. So, when Threads first released, everyone on the platform was
essentially just like the Twitter refugees. It's kind of like what Blue Sky is now. It was just everybody who hated Elon Musk downloaded Threads, said this is the Twitter killer or
people were saying they didn't want to see any politics, so they moved over to Threads. And at the time, like I said, it was really just a refugee camp. It was super
underdeveloped. Didn't really have a lot of features. I'd still say it is a little underdeveloped, but it has come a long way over the last few [music] years. And now everything's
starting to change. You're starting to see a lot of the big creators, Leila Horoszi, Alex Herozi, Cody Sanchez, Sahil Bloom, all of these massive creators are starting to repurpose
their Twitter content onto threads and get tons of organic reach. But also, what I've noticed over the last few months, and this has been the big breakthrough, is that small
accounts, even like mine, have gotten thousands and tens of thousands of views completely organically. This is the one thing that you really don't get on LinkedIn or Twitter is
that organic reach for small accounts. So now I'm seeing clients go viral every single day completely organically. No shout outs, no retweets, no anything. Just throwing the post
there and seeing thousands of likes. We're seeing inbound DMs on the IG inbox. We're seeing inbound DMs in the message request inbox on threads. And it's really starting to pick
up. And one of the big differences with threads is that they have Instagram to leverage. So, if you go viral on threads, your post can actually make it on the Instagram algorithm.
And I'm actually going to show you a few of my posts that have kind of blown up and have went viral on Instagram instead of threads. So, you're actually getting two platforms
exposure for the price of one. And another crazy thing is that if you have followers on Instagram, we're seeing roughly a 10% conversion rate from your Instagram followers to your
threads followers. So, if you have, for example, 10,000 followers on Instagram or 100,000 followers on Instagram, you are going to get 10% of those running off into your threads
account because when you download threads, it actually prompts you to just follow everyone from your Instagram account. So, you're actually going to already start with some
followers instead of starting from square one. And the last cool feature with the whole Instagram and threads connection is that your threads account will actually show up on your
Instagram profile under your handle. So when people follow you on Instagram, if you're already posting reels and carousels, they can click your threads account and follow you there
as well. So again, you're just getting another network effect, an additional benefit for the same amount of work. So I pulled up two of my Threads posts here that did really well
organically. So one of them, you'll see, got 85% of its impressions from Instagram. That means when I posted this, it was actually going viral on Instagram on stories and on the
discover page rather than the actual threads algorithm. So, I'm actually benefiting from two algorithms at the same time. And now with this other post, you'll see that 97% of the
impressions came from the Threads homepage. So, that's where all of my impressions were coming from, the threads algorithm. So, you actually get two chances to go viral, both the
Instagram algorithm and the threads algorithm. And now, if you're repurposing it from X, you get three algorithms. And if you repurpose it to LinkedIn, you get four algorithms. So,
you're actually just getting tons and tons of extra benefits for the price of one piece of content. And I'm going to show you in a few seconds how to actually automate that. So the
way I repurpose my content is automated with a tool called HypeFury. You can do this probably with a bunch of tools, but this is the one that I like. And if you go over to your
settings and you get into the connections, you can actually go here and connect your LinkedIn account, you can connect your Threads account, and you can connect a couple other
things that I don't really use that much. And what it allows you to do is when you go over here to the queue, and you'll see some of this content by the time this goes live, you
could just go [music] search how it did. You can see that I can actually repurpose this content to multiple platforms. So for example, I have like a LinkedIn native post. I got
Twitter and threads posts. And the way you do this is after you schedule a post, you can click this little three dots here and you can click enable threads crossing for all cued
posts. So you [music] literally one click are going to get all repurposed content from both Twitter and threads. And if I really wanted to, I can also click the post, click this
little drop down and add LinkedIn, add Instagram, add Facebook. Me personally with my strategy at the moment, I am doing native LinkedIn posts separate from my Twitter and threads
post. I just feel that they have kind of a different context and a different vibe. So now I'm going to break down a three-step game plan of how you can get started with threads
right now. Step one, you're going to want to write three posts per day. I recommend doing one short form, one long form, and one multimedia. Think videos, memes, charts, pictures,
etc. Step two, you're going to want to crossost it on both X and threads. and you're going to use the hype for your automation that I just mentioned to do so. And step three, this
is optional for the people who have time to put in the sweat equity. I recommend replying to five to 10 different big accounts in your niche every single day on both platforms. If
you just want to focus on one of the platforms, then just do the comments on one of the platform. But I recommend doing this if you are someone that has the time and energy. If
you're a business owner and you're watching this, I recommend having a VA do it or hiring an agency like mine. Now, if you need any guidance on how to actually write any of these
posts or how to set this stuff up, I highly recommend subscribing to the Birdhouse emails. The link [music] is in the description. And we send a weekly newsletter every single week
with tons of value and tons of practical advice that you can implement in your All From Marcos Ruiz Social media marketing okay in this video we are going to look at the biggest
competitor to X it's called threads new from Instagram and going to talk to you in this video about how to use it the kind of content you should be posting on there and what it's
all about really it's a really useful one and keep an eye out for Threads because I got a funny feeling this year that it is really going to take off before we do that remember to
subscribe to the channel um around 75% of people who watch my videos are not subscribed to the channel so please do hit that subscribe button really does help with creating content
okay so let's dive into this video we're going to take a closer look at threads from Instagram pretty much first of all it's a new app that's available uh from Instagram and it's
also linked on your Instagram page as well so when people scroll through your feed and they go to your profile they'll be able to see a link on your page that takes them to
thread's account if you want it on there you can remove that but way and it is pretty much built by the Instagram team mainly for sharing text updates and joining public
conversations it's really about starting a conversation and getting involved in a conversation at the moment threads links to your Instagram and uses your Instagram account to get
you logged in and threading as they call it at the moment Instagram announced that it's releasing threads to more than a 100 countries so if you don't have it yet in your app store
it'll probably be with you very soon so keep an eye out it's definitely coming how does it work so how does the actual threads app work well the app is very very similar to Twitter
and honestly quite a few other apps out there that are text based as well threads lets you post text based post along with images videos and links as well each post can be up to
500 characters long which is more than Twitter and videos have to be five minutes or less views be able to upload them your account can be private or public similar to Instagram so
to download the app just go to the App Store type in Threads and you'll see it come up so starting off at the top um we have my name and then what I'm known as on Instagram uh
remember this part is searchable on Instagram so have that as soul for house DJ um and then my tag name underneath that's what it comes up on threads then we've got a profile
picture again using the same one from Instagram and my bio as well there how many followers I have and then this is the link that I've included so you can include a link if you've
got a website I definitely think you should add a link to that or if you've got a social tap page with multiple links then add that in there as well people can also click on this
and go over to your Instagram page as well um directly which is really really cool feature so the main looks that you've got are threads which is all the threads that I've posted
here then you've got replies um which is all of the messages and things that you've got basically replies to your messages um any reposts that you've done that you've shared from
other people I haven't done any of those yet so there's no posts um here yet but that's what the main um feed will look like on your page then at the top you've got the this is the
profile icon um this is likes so anything that you've liked or people that have liked of yours you can go on there and you can follow people back that have followed you uh you can
then click on follows so these are all the people that are currently following me um any replies that you get there this is a great way to keep up with all the notifications that
you have coming in also this one will be any mentions where people have given you a shout out or you've shouted out other people as well um you'll also have one here called quotes
reposts and verified as well so these are all of the verified accounts that you're currently following if you want to follow them back just click on that follow back button next up
this is where you can actually post um a new thread this one is where you you can do a search and look out for accounts that you want to follow so this is actually the main feed on
uh threads and again you'll see things like this pop up where you can uh it suggests people that you can follow and you just go ahead and click on that follow button if you want to
follow any of these people uh the other option at the top here is the uh two lines where you can get more access to your account so this one is appearance where you can change the
feel of it if you want to go to dark mode just click on that if you want daylight mode that one and auto it will change during the day so in the daytime it'll be white and in the
evening it'll be black settings this is where you go and do any of the if you want to change to a private account you can do that uh you can also look at profiles that you've
blocked or click on hidden words um this is also where you can deactivate your account or delete your account uh by clicking on here following the information below there um then
you've got other bits Pro personal information supervision Security account status download your information transfer your information and cookies as well and then this is the help
button where you can get more help on anything you're struggling with on threads so there you go there's our look at threads it's definitely going to be a big platform I think in
2024 there's going to be lots more added to it and I also think a lot more people going to come over from X um because it's just not a great place to be at the moment it's always
very negative it's great for news updates and things like that and for following huge celebrities but in my opinion that's kind of about it um thread seems to be a lot more happier
place to be with a lot more positivity on there so we know it's another platform that we have to think about but if you're looking to grow on social media you need to be on these
platforms early and you can quickly get your numbers up with people that are currently following you on Instagram being able to follow you directly as well well so give it a go if
you're not doing so already threads is definitely going to be one to watch in 2024 I hope you've enjoyed this video remember to subscribe to the channel you'll be posting a lot
more content about social media and DJ tips as well all of this stuff is geared towards helping DJs learn how to grow a bigger audience and how to use social media the right way
you want to know more head to my website rocking social media agency.com plenty of the details on there and you can also link to my DJ page Paul Hutchinson DJ as well all right
I'll see you in the next video In this video, I'm going to show you how to set up and use threads on your mobile device. So, Threads is a very similar application to Twitter, apart
from it's created by Meta. So, to go and start using this, we first just need to open up the app store on your mobile device. And then using the search box, just go and search for
the word threads and click on search. Now, scroll down and click on the download button to go and install this. Once it's finished installing, we can press open to go and open up
the application. Now you'll be prompted to go and sign in with your Instagram account. And this will essentially connect your two accounts together. You can decide to use a
different account at the bottom here, but I'm just going to go and sign in with my Instagram. Now, if this is your first time signing into Threads, then you'll get this setup
experience here. So, decide whether you want a public or a private profile. So, this works in a similar sort of way to Instagram. So, if you want other people to be able to find
and see your content online, you can select public profile. But if you just want to keep your content to your followers and to your friends, then we can go and select private and
then click on next. Then click on join threads at the bottom of this window. So this is essentially the home screen on threads. And what you can do here is just scroll down the
feed and if you like any of these posts, you can click on the heart button to go and like this post. You can also click on the comment icon to go and send a reply to this thread.
And finally, you can click on this reshare button and you can go and repost this to your own thread's timeline. You can also click on the share icon at the very end here and you
can go and share this to either your Instagram or to other social media applications. Now to go and start following accounts, you can click on the search box in the bottom
navigation and then just go and search for the person that you're trying to find on threads. Once you found someone that you want to follow, just click on the follow button next to
their profile. And then if I click back on the home button, you can see that currently I'm on the for you page. So this is just content that's being suggested to me. But if I click
on following in the top navigation, that's going to show all of the content from the people that I'm following. Now, to go and start creating your own threads, just click on your
profile icon in the bottom right hand side. Then click on this button here to create a thread. And then you can just go and type out the content for your thread, what you want this
to say. You can also attach videos and photos as well by clicking on the gallery icon and just allow full access to your camera roll. And then you can go and select the photo or
video that you want to upload. You can click on anyone can reply and quote at the bottom here and you can select who's able to go and see this post. So typically it's going to be
set to anyone. So this is going to be a public thread. But if you just want your followers or your friends to be able to see this, then you can go and select that from the list and
click on post. Now once you've created your thread, people can come and interact with that thread you've now posted. If you need to make any changes to your account, click on the
edit profile button. And then from here, you'll be able to set up things like your bio and also if you want to add links to your page. And it's really as simple as that. in so what
is threads it's a brand new What is Threads? social media app that's been developed by meta remember meta is the company that owns Facebook and Instagram so they now own a brand
new app called threads and it's basically being described as Twitter's rival right because if you spend any time on the app already and if you haven't don't worry I'll be showing
you plenty of screen recordings but if you have seen the Apple already you'll notice that it looks eerily similar to Twitter in fact the whole purpose of it is very very similar to
Twitter it's a text-based social media app where people will use it to start conversations share their own thoughts and in response to the Creator sharing this content and Their
audience can interact with their content by liking it responding with their own comment reposting or you know retweeting or is it re-threading is that is that the lingo we're using
for this I don't know but you catch my drift it's super super similar to Twitter it also reminds me a bit of like the old days of Facebook and I'm going to be showing my age here
but do you remember like you know 2010 Facebook era but that was like the lead social media website and we're all just sharing status updates every few minutes and it would say
something like Jade is feeling and then I would finish it by saying like stressed because I have gcses you know anyone who's a millennial is going to be listening to that being
like yeah I can relate anyone else is going to think I'm a weirdo but regardless it is very reminiscent of old school social media sites but specifically Twitter now I'm willing to
bet that the next question you want to ask is why has meta released Why has Meta created Threads? a rival to Twitter Twitter already exists why do we have another version of it now
without going too far into meta's history I think we all know that meta apps like to copy other apps right so then I remember when stories was released on Instagram and it was a
direct replica of Snapchat like that is meta strategy they like to copy what's working now they're super clever because they've noticed there's been a huge rise in negative
sentiment towards Twitter and the reason for that arguably is partly because of their new leadership with Elon Musk being at the helm I know they have a new CEO now but Elon Musk
is still very much the owner of Twitter and ever since he took over the app he's installed a few changes that have ruffled some feathers for example the paid Subscription Service
Twitter blue and also more recently limiting the amount of tweets that you can actually see on a daily basis just to name a few so because of this Rising negative sentiment towards
Twitter meta being The Savvy social media company that they are saw an opportunity they thought you know what we can take the essence of Twitter and make it into our own package it
up neatly and Market it as a safer alternative to Twitter and that's exactly what they've done and that has resulted in the threads app being downloaded over a hundred million
times in the first five days of it launching a hundred million times that's insane it's absolutely insane the success that you've seen so far so with that all in mind let's move on
and let's do a demo Fred so that you know exactly how to use it now the first thing to know about threads especially if you're How to use Threads (full demo) just getting started
is that it syncs with your Instagram account so what I'm going to do for the purpose of this video is I'm going to create a separate threads account because obviously I've already
got one I'm going to create another one using a private Instagram account that I only use for like friends and family just so you can see what the login process is like so I'm
going to click on my private account and by the way if you're feeling like you're missing out on anything there you're really not I literally upload like one post a year on that
account but anyway it's going to take you through to the screen where you can set up your profile so here you can say it's imported my name already it's then going to allow me to
write a bio add a link or I can click import from Instagram so if I click that you'll see that my bio and my link all directs to my main business channel right so then you click
next and then you can click your privacy so either a public profile or a private profile this is obviously my private account so I'm going to click private for this instance and
then and this is the fun part it's going to take you through to this page which will allow you to follow follow everyone who you already follow on your Instagram account so
obviously I've blurred out some names here because he's all my friends and family but it's basically showing all of my friends and family who I already follow my private account
and there's a button on the bottom which says follow all when you press that button it will automatically follow every single person who you're already following which means when
you open up threads and you're ready to get moving with threads you already have content from people who you like that is unlike any other social media platform that has ever
existed so once you've done that you can click next and then it's going to show you how thread Works give you some tips for getting started and once you click join threads it's
going to create your account okay so now what you're seeing is my public threads account right this is the one that if you're going to follow me anywhere this is the one to follow
me on because let me tell you I am not consistent on my private accounts so this is my threads account as you can see I have 4275 followers you might be thinking my God Jade have
you done that already well if you remember when you set up your threads account it had that follow all button most of the people who follow you are going to select that follow all
button because it's just easier which means when you create your threads account not only are you ready following everyone who you're interested in but you also already have a
bunch of followers it's like an instant Community it's incredible so that's why I've got 4 000 followers on there right so the navigation's at the bottom of the page there's the
Home tab which is similar to any other social media site where when you press the Home tab you're able to see content from people you follow in addition to posts that threads
thinks that you'll like there's also the search button but I'm not gonna lie the search functionality on threads isn't quite there yet it's something they're working on so at the
moment yeah you can search for specific accounts but you can't really search for topics or hashtags like you can on other social media platforms there's then the draft button right
this is for a new thread so this is the button you want to press when you want to create some new content so you just click on the button you can write down a thread for the day
here you go some really interesting insightful threads for me just absolute nonsense and then if you click the attach button it will allow you to add a photo or you can add a video
of up to five minutes in length a couple other things for you to be aware of is that there's a 500 character limit on all of your threads and also you might be seeing people
creating these really cool threads where it looks like they're creating their own story from one Central thread you might be wondering how you do that well if we click on a thread
that I shared recently all I have to do is Click add to thread and I can reply to my own post and that's what's going to create this timeline of content all under it so you know
when on Twitter when people say things like here's five reasons why you need to have a morning routine a thread and then you've got all the content underneath it that is how you
achieve the same thing on threads as I said this I'm like oh my God how clever of meta to call this app thread and basically take that term and nickname that was literally created
on Twitter and make it their own they're so clever anyway so that is the basics of how to use threads there's also this little like button here which is going to show you all of
your activity so people who've responded to your comments your replies your mentions verified accounts Etc right couple other things to keep in mind before we move on to what you
should actually be posting on this app the Important things you should know about Threads first is to do with blocked accounts and muted accounts so as you know it links to your
Instagram account now what that means is anyone who you've blocked on your Instagram account will also be blocked on threads which is great however anyone who you've muted on your
Instagram account will not be automatically muted on threads so if you're like me and you mute people because you're like oh my God like I want to support you but your content
gives me anxiety and there's no shame in that being you by the way like I honestly tell my clients to mute people who give them anxiety on a daily basis so if you're like me and
you've done that just be careful because when you open up your threads and you start using it you're going to start seeing those people who mute it they're going to start popping
up on your home feed and they might start triggering you again so just keep that in mind you can mute people on threads it's just that you have to do it manually it won't happen
automatically another thing to know is that hashtags are not a thing on threads at the moment and that makes me so happy the fact that there really isn't any like tactics aligned
with threads right now and there won't be for a while because let's face it it is brand new makes me so happy and calm it just feels like this fun free place where you don't have
to worry about all these all these additional strategic things that we do on other social media platforms like you don't need to worry about that yet or talk more about that in
just a moment but in terms of hashtags they just don't work so don't bother trying to use them there's no strategies around them there's no certain amount that you should be using
just don't bother they literally just do not work at the moment right also a quick word on the algorithm yes of course your girl researched the algorithm before I sat down and
filmed The Threads algorithm this video yes there is an algorithm in place however the head of Instagram Adam Missouri has specified that the algorithm on threads is a light
algorithm which is interesting way to describe an algorithm I feel like that's kind of how you describe like you know low calorie butter it's like a light butter but no it's a
light algorithm so the algorithm being light basically means that it is not fully dictated every single thing that you see there's a huge chronological element to thread still
which is great however it is still going to show you content from people who you don't follow in the hopes that you like that content now I think this is really clever oh my God
how many times have I called meta clever in this video this is like a meta fan video it's not you know there are several cons to this app and I'll talk about those a little bit
later on but an issue that meta had with Instagram is that when they started sharing content on people's home feeds from people who they don't follow people got very annoyed
because it felt so opposite to what they were used to on Instagram yeah other apps like Tick Tock which have done that from the beginning never had that pushback so obviously when
meta is going to create a brand new app they're going to ensure that they've got that recommendation element to it where we're used to seeing content from people we don't follow
that needs to be inbuilt and that has to be present from the jump so that they don't have to do that later and then we all get angry about it again right right so it was a smart
move on their half we don't really know much else about the algorithm and I believe the reason for that is that it simply isn't very robust yet as I mentioned it's a brand new app
and in order for algorithms to really work effectively it needs to have a lot of data so that the algorithms can learn from the data to figure out what content we want to be seeing
and it's just too new and there's just not enough data I don't think for them to really hone in on the algorithm life just yet so who knows maybe they'll never really hone in on it
and maybe we'll be like the old days of social media but I'm not gonna lie to you guys if that's what you're hoping for I really wouldn't hold your breath all Free creator
resources right guys I'm going to quickly interrupt this video just to tell you about some resources that are available in my description that are completely free and are going to
be really useful for you if you're a content creator or if you use social media as a way to grow your online presence right I've created a brand new company it's called The Creator
project and the mission of the company is to help content creators get paid so I actually have a free ebook all about different ways for you to earn money as a content creator and
I have an entire podcast which includes interviews from industry leaders Brands successful create as agencies the lot they're all designed to help you thrive in the world of
content creation so if you're looking to level up I've got links to all of those different things in my description they are free and I really recommend that you check them out all
right shall What to post on Threads we talk about what we should be posting I think before we get into this I need to make the caveat that I'm sure you're all fully aware of right
I do not have any proven growth strategies or tactics or engagement tactics or any of that good stuff for you yet I simply don't we as a community and referring to like social
media gurus will start to have those over the months right we'll start to test and learn we'll start to figure out what's working based on our clients and our community but right
now none of us have that because the app is too new so if you're looking for me to sit down and be like this is going to be how you're going to grow we're not there yet but don't
worry at some point that concept will come but for now what I want to do is talk about your approach towards thread so that you feel comfortable and confident sharing content on
this brand new app so one of the main ways that people are currently using threads is as a community building platform and as a way to start a conversation that is also how the
head of Instagram has actually marketed the app as a way to create public conversations so one thing that I've noticed ever since that I've been posting on the app is that
engagement there is a lot heavier than it is on other apps so I can upload something and the likelihood of me getting a lot of comments as a response or likes as a response to that
post is actually a lot higher than it is on other platforms especially when you look at my following size right and again the reason for that is because the app leans heavily
towards conversation so if you're thinking about what type of content do I want to share think about your audience who they are and what they'd want to get in a conversation with
you about and lean into those topics right in addition to that it's a brand new app so a huge part of this is going to be a lot of test and learn it's a great opportunity for you
to Showcase your personality and that stands whether you're a personal brand or you're like a team of people running a business figure out what your Brand's personality and toner
voice is if you haven't already and use the app to communicate that to your audience again the word conversation could not be more prevalent it's literally like one big DM chat
with your audience think of it that way right in terms of frequency and I work be really careful here because I really don't want to lean too heavily into this hole you need to be
posting eight times a day stuff because again we How often you should post on Threads don't know what the optimum posting frequency is on this app yet however what we do know is
that the shelf life of your thread so your posts on threads tends to be fairly short so what I mean by that if we compare to social media apps that we know really well already on
Instagram your shelf life of your content is fairly sure you post it might hit the algorithm which means people might see it for about 24 hours if you're really lucky it might live
longer than that but for most of us it gets shown to people for about 24 hours and people scroll past it and then it just kind of gets lost into the abyss so that's a short shelf
life if you compare that to other platforms like YouTube YouTube is long shelf life because I'll post this video right now and it will continue to get views hopefully for months
maybe even years to come right so that's a long shelf life platform naturally platforms where the content has a short shelf life requires more content to be shared versus platforms
that have a long shelf life which requires less content to be shared so on Instagram you post daily on YouTube you post one to three times per week right do you see how the two
things differ I'm putting threads in the short shelf life column in fact I think it's even further away from Instagram like I think it's really short shelf life I think you post
and people kind of see it for maybe half a day and then it kind of goes into the abyss and it gets lost amongst all of the other content so because of that you need to post more
naturally short shelf life equals more content right so if you are desperate to have some idea of a posting frequency I would recommend that you try to post at least once a day on
threads but realistically from what I'm seeing so far is that people are posting multiple times a day but remember we don't know which option is going to get you the best results
