about it. It's more likely to go viral and be seen by a lot of people because as I said threads fosters conversations. So basically, if you are more natural, people feel more
connected to you and they're more likely to ask questions or like talk about it in the comment section. And obviously you can use chat GPT, but make sure that it doesn't sound very
robotic. Just make sure it's in your tone, in your pace, and it sounds like how you usually talk to people. Next, we have the most important part of the post, which is the CTA,
which stands for call to action. So this is where people convert to followers or buyers. So there are specific kinds of CTAs you can use. So if you want people to follow you, you
use a CTA like this. If you want people to buy your product or go ahead with your subscription or sign up, anything related to a lead or a sale, you can use something like this.
Now, all of this comes down to how relatable and valuable your posts are. The more value you provide in your post, the more likely they are to follow you or click on your link and
become a lead. I've written down every single point that I talked about this video in a written format in more detail in my threads growth system. In this I also talk about the
short forms and carousels as well. There are other types of posts like ghost posts or spoilers. I talk about every single post type, when to use, which kind of post type, what do
you expect from it? If you want more followers, what kind of post do you use? if you want more likes, what kind of post do you use? All of this with real data and with real
examples of my own posts. And if you choose to go ahead with the course, I'll also provide more than 50 viral plug-in playosal templates that got me a lot of likes and a lot of
followers. And I'll also share my viral hooks, the CTAs that got me the maximum conversions, and this one secret hack that got me over 1 million views and over 1.5,000 followers
just from one single post. And this secret trick is guaranteed to work every single time. The link is in the description. You can start completely for free. So go ahead and grab
yours now. Now that you have your threads profile set, the next step is to come up with your own digital product so you can drive traffic from your threads profile and redirect
them to your product so they can make a lot of sales. Now, if you have any questions about what product to create, how to create a product that actually sells, you can watch this
video. I talk in complete detail about how I made my very first product and that got over 800 sales. So, you can click here and watch this video. And until then, I'll see you in
the next All From the series From Poorav Bolar Strategies Learning Related Watched In this video Chapters Transcript Introduction What if I told you there's a social media platform
out there that actually feels fun again, allows you to be yourself, share unhinged thoughts, and still contribute to brand awareness? Yes, it exists. Threads is the underrated
social media platform that feels like a breath of fresh air these days. It's real, it's messy, it's funny, and it might just be the place where your brand finally feels human
again. Hey, I'm Connie, the social media coordinator here at Sendable. And in this video, I'm going to be sharing exactly how we grew our threads views by over 30,000% in just 3
months. Yes, that number still shocks me, too. I'll show you what worked, what didn't, and why Threads might just become your new favorite place to post. If you want the full
breakdown, make sure to download our free Threads report below. Why Threads is different When threads launched, a lot of people, including us, treated it like Twitter 2.0. We just
repurposed post, copy pasteed content, and hope for the best. It wasn't bad, but it definitely wasn't working. After performing a social media audit, which we've linked in the
description, we realized that Threads wasn't built on that kind of content. It's not a broadcast platform, it's a conversation, kind of like the group chat of social media. Once we
dropped the more corporate voice and embraced a more [clears throat] relaxed human tone, things changed. We leaned into the silly stuff. Inside jokes that only social media
managers would get, relatable struggles, random thoughts that sounded more like text to a friend than brand posts. And suddenly, people started replying, not just for the tips or
insights, but because of the person behind the platform. Setting up your Threads account Now, if you haven't set up your Threads account yet, don't worry. That part's easy. First,
create your account. You'll need to log in through Instagram, so your username, bio, and verification will come along with you. Then, you should optimize your profile. Keep it fun,
short, casual. Threads isn't the place for a corporate elevator pitch. It's more this is who we are. Come and talk to us. But you should always use keywords to make your profile
searchable. Then change your profile photo. You can keep it consistent with your Instagram one, but you can always mix it up with something funnier from time to time to join in on
trending topics and jokes. Just make sure it's a clear, highquality image. Then make sure to check your settings, privacy, and notifications. Threads is all about connections, so
you don't want to miss out on replies or quotes. Finally, talk to people, follow people, connect with others, whether that's brands, creators, or random users. The more you engage,
the faster you'll grow. And don't overthink your first post. Seriously, it doesn't need to be perfect. It just needs to be you. How to build a Threads strategy So, how do you
actually grow on threads without being overwhelmed? You need a strategy. That's why we created the real thread strategy, and it's simple but powerful. R is for relatable voice.
Think of threads as talking to your bestie, not replying to a corporate email. Skip the big words or hot takes and just keep it honest and conversational. Threads thrives on
textonly posts that sound like thoughts, not salesy announcement. E is for everyday. Threads moves fast and you need to keep up. Posting daily helps you stay visible and
consistent. That's why I use smart cues to schedule post in advance so I can focus on managing the platform. A is for anchored in content pillars. This is because you need
structure. Although it may seem like it, our posts aren't random. We carefully selected content pillars that work for our audience. So, for example, evergreen memes, social media
manager struggles, relatable thoughts, and reactive content. Yours can be whatever fits your niche. Just keep it varied and human. L is for led by community. Now, this is my
favorite part and what truly makes Threads special. You can't just post and leave because Threads is all about community. reply to people, quote other brands, and jump into random
conversations. Some of our biggest threads came from random interactions, like the time we replied to Fanta and ended up with 24,000 views. Threads is about relationships, not
reach. Once we focused on connections over perfections, everything clicked. Lessons we learned Here are the things that really stood out to us during our threads growth journey.
Repurpose content doesn't work. [music] Threads is completely unique and audiences can tell if you're just recycling posts from other platforms. Threads has always been incredibly
niche and fast-paced trends. [music] For example, the time that all the brands decided to post about radioactive shrimp. To grow on threads, you need to write specifically for
threads and be part of those conversations. Texton posts performed best. Whenever we posted with links and images, our engagement was significantly lower than when we posted
without. Simple, readable text posts will often get the most engagement. Funny and relatable posts are better than polished and salesy posts. Posts that make someone stop, laugh,
or say, "Me too," are always going to outperform a perfectly creative post. Humor and relatability go a long way in making your brand feel human. Replies matter way more than
reach. It can be so tempting to chase views and virality by posting. But we found that engaging with other people has actually been the reason for virality. And to top it off, we
created long-term connections with users. Showing up is all that matters. You don't need to be perfect. Even a simple thought of the day is better than waiting for a perfect post
that went through 12 approvals. Consistency and honesty build trust and keep your audience coming back. And finally, the importance of community. The more we focused on
conversations, interactions, and being part of those trends, the more our account grew. Not just in numbers, but in genuine Outro engagement. So, Threads has genuinely become one
of my favorite platforms. Because it's not about going viral, it's about being part of the conversation, having fun, and letting your brand breathe a little bit. So, if you've been
overthinking it, stop. Schedule a few posts ahead and start talking. You just need to be curious, reactive, and most importantly, you make sure to go follow us on threads to see my
unhinge post. And if you want to see exactly how we grew 30,000% in just 3 months, make sure to download our free threads report below. Thanks for watching. Don't forget to like,
subscribe, and tell me in the comments what platform you're currently loving or hating. I'll see you in the next video. All From the series From Sendible Social media marketing
Intro so threads it's the new social media platform launched by meta just a couple of days ago and it's growing insanely fast in this video first we'll look at the best ways to use
threads some growth hacks and things you can do to grow your accounts especially in the early days but they should apply anytime you're watching this video also I want to kind of
give you my thoughts on the best ways for creators and businesses to use threads so let's just jump right into it How Threads Works so threads looks and feels pretty much like
Twitter but I think it's going to be a little different in some ways the biggest way is it's essentially an extension of your Instagram and that's going to be the first thing that
we're going to get into so not everybody is starting from zero or at the same level at least on this new app that's because if you already had an Instagram following you're pretty
much going to retain a percentage of that at least all your followers that you know go over to the new platform and decide to follow everybody that were following on Instagram so
you should have somewhat of a built-in following already but just for the sake of this video Let's assume you're starting from 0 row but these rules kind of apply towards wherever
you're at in your account Journey so Frequency Consistency number one thing to keep in mind when you're growing your threads account is frequency and consistency threads is a new
platform that's growing incredibly fast and what that means is is there's a huge content demand so um the numbers right now like you know it's growing by you know millions of
active followers every day and uh there's just not a lot of content on the platform yet to post to those new followers so um that is a huge opportunity for you know smaller
creators and smaller accounts to post and get those posts promoted and I'm going to kind of talk a little bit about how to do that so those two things kind of go together so
because this is like a Twitter like app you know it's not going to be uncommon to post you know anywhere from five to seven times a day potentially um even more than that it's a
higher frequency social media platform for sure so keep that in mind shorter form shorter content you're going to want to show to the threads algorithm however it's being developed
that you are an engaging user that you are a power user that you are posting a lot and you're posting consistently that should help your posts get promoted more and more What You
Post Matters alright so number two which kind of plays into the first one as well is what you write and what you post matters you're going to want to deliver high quality um
engaging thoughtful content things that are going to increase your followers total user minutes on the platform that's what's going to help get your post uh promoted you're going
to want to post things that are really engaging and things that are going to drive a lot of conversation that seems to be what's getting promoted most on threads right now but most
importantly try to provide value with whatever you're posting make it where you know you're trying to make the time that somebody is putting into looking at your content or
absorbing your content engaging with your content you're going to want to make sure that that's providing them some level of value and the more value you're providing you know
naturally these algorithms are getting much better at promoting high value content so number three start finding Find Your Audience your Audience by directly in engaging with
account in your industry or Niche so I would be replying specifically to other creators or other accounts that are directly in your industry you know start trying to engage
conversations on your own posts you're going to start wanting to identify and find those accounts that are in that same industry and niche as you so you can start to kind of tailor
your audience because it should be kind of a vicious cycle once you start getting good user feedback on some of your posts it should just recommend to other similar followers that
are going to be looking for those types of content anyway uh number fourth Use Your Existing Audience best way to grow on threads right now is to use your existing audience so if
you have another platform somewhere I would start adding your you know kind of app threads handle everywhere you can there's social media buttons and pins and things on all
different accounts uh email that kind of stuff I would start adding your threads handle there I think being early at doing this is going to help a lot because people are still
interested and new at the platform so if you're driving there are kind of you know top of funnel first approach to the website or first approach to the app through your you know
email signature or something like that that could be a really powerful tool early on number Use Visual Content five I don't think it's talked about it as much right now but visual
content so photos and videos seem to be promoted pretty significantly on threads I mean vet this for yourself and your new your own feed but it looks like the majority of posts are
still going to be you know somewhat visual uh so that's definitely something to keep in mind I think threads would be a great place to post uh to kind of repost and share it and
use use it as another channel to promote your existing content and it looks like a great way to use that content as a strategy is to just kind of tailor as a little bit more of a
short form um kind of bite-sized piece of that where you can kind of link it to your longer form content on another platform like YouTube perhaps or uh you know potentially
Instagram something like that either way Conclusion I wanted to also talk about how threads could be used uh you know for a business or you know like a Creator somebody who's
looking at this strategically and I think the best thing to do is find your audience and find your audience early and like I mentioned before with number three I think by trying to
engage directly with accounts in your industry or Niche is going to be the best thing um just get on there and you know engage with the platform a lot this is a conversational
driven platform and uh the number one way to grow is definitely by kind of having those Network effects and working on that really early on anyway guys I'm really excited to see
where threads is going to go if you want to see more content like this please consider subscribing here on YouTube also check out my threads it'll be in the bio below and let me
know if you liked this video let me know if you agree disagree anything like that I'll be responding to comments below thank you so much guys and I will see you in the next video
All Intro jumping into a new social media like threats can be challenging you need to experiment try new things fail and succeed to figure out what really works for you boy to make
it a little easier and help you avoid starting blind I've prepared a guide with five tips you can start applying right now to grow on [Music] threads if you want to grow on threats
you need to understand how how it works Algorithm at its core in other words you have to understand its algorithm like most social networks threats is powered by an algorithm that
decide what content gets displayed on each user's feed and in what order these decisions are made based on certain signals and predictions for example the algorithm can predict
whether you'll like a new post from a threats profile based on signals like how many post of that user you've seen how many you've liked and how often you have clicked on their
Post in your feed if these signals are all positive it will show you their latest post if not it won't screenshot time here's a quick summary of the signals threats algorithm uses
to make these predictions as you can see whether your content works or not isn't just a matter of luck but about matching with the audience depending on the social Med Network to
hit the goal and reach the users that will actually resonate with your content you need to understand a key point and this is where my second tip comes in you need to Define your
Niche and carve out Define Your Niche space in it on social networks trying to do too much means you end up doing very little if your passion is Fitness focus on that and try to
create valuable and original content in that Niche whether it's te SS memes tutorials or guides I know valuable content is something that you hear about a lot but it's actually not
always clear what that means so here are some key points to help you determine if your content is valuable it's relevant and interesting to your audience it provides your
perspective on a current Trend offers data information or even a little bit of research it encourages your community to engage one way to know know if your post adds any type of
volume is by looking at the interactions it generates with that clear it's time to start sharing content and my next tip although it might seem obvious is essential to any social
Post Often network you need to post often meta steam already stated these in a carousel post you need to Poe at least two to five times a week why well posting frequently has
several advantages it shows your profile is active ask yourself this would you follow someone whose last post was 3 months ago probably not no no no the more you POS the more
chances you have to heat your target audience in micr blogging networks like threats content is fleeting so reaching a huge audience with only one post a month will literally be
impossible and in my opinion this can be the most important reason the more you post the more information you'll gather to see what actually works for you it's pure statistics the
larger your sample the better insights you'll gain about what works and what doesn't a simple way to stay consistent on social media is to schedule your content so my advice is to
set aside one day a week or a month to schedule several posts at once that way you're account can stay active when your inspiration isn't flowing to schedule threats post you can
actually use a tool like metrical which is also free it allows you to schedule content across multiple social media platforms with just one click automating this task frees up your
time for other things which brings me to my point number four engaging with other accounts Engage with other accounts this tip is one you need to keep in mind according to meta
responding to someone is just as important as posting content let me ask you this when you see a post that Sparks a debate or has lots of replies don't you open the comment section
to see what the people are saying no no no yes exactly leaving a good comment or response can go a long way help helping others discover your account as you can see these four tips
help you be a solid foundation on threats let's quickly recap you need to understand how it works Define your Niche share valuable content consistently and interact with others now
you can get the wheel turning to identify your strength and how are you doing that you read my mind by analyzing which brings me to point number five you need to an analyze your
Analyze Your Metrics metrics this is essential if you want to grow on threats metrics can help you figure out for example which content attract new users or generate more
engagement this way you can replicate this type of post based on your goals to view your threats metrics you have two options you can do it directly on threats go to a post and
click on view activity here you'll see data like views likes repost and quotes if you go to insights you can see additional data like follower activity on that post to check
General profile stats go to your profile and click on this icon from there you can view interesting stats like your top posts on metrical with metrical you can see all these stats
on a single screen along with metrics from other social networks like Instagram Facebook Tik Tok or blue sky and as I mentioned earlier you can also schedule your content here in
short you can centralize all your apps for growing on social media in one platform saving you time and effort now tell me this are you ready to take off on threats this year let me
know in the comments by the way if you want to learn how to create a social media strategy to help you grow without burning out check out this video and of course don't forget to
subscribe to see more videos like this bye metri cooler