client selects. Yes, you might be happier if they choose one over another. Generally speaking, there are some exceptions I won't discuss here. You shouldn't be putting forward
options that you don't think are right for the client that you wouldn't be happy delivering on. David: In other words, if it's good, better, best, actually, you're looking for the
best, whichever one of those three it is. You don't want to represent things wrong with the title. You're objecting to the titling of these, but you think the three option is a
good framework, right? Blair: Oh, yes, completely convinced of that. We've talked about that before. It sounds like you've done some research and you want to push back on the three
options. David: Oh, no, I have done some research and I do think it's valuable. Actually, not that this matters, but it actually fits. When I look at four or five options, I get
this cloudy look on my face. It's just weird like that's just one person, but no, I just want to separate for people this idea that the titling might not be right, but the three
options. Recap for us why the three options are still a really useful construct. Blair: We talk about multiple options. Three is better than two, four is fine, five, I think you
start to introduce the paradox of choice, although I haven't seen research that supports that it's at five. I'm with you, David, I think I can handle four options, usually. Five,
it starts to confuse me. Even four, I tell the story a lot. I go through the car wash there are four options. It's not a significant purchase, it doesn't take a lot of cognitive
load, there's not a lot of money involved. I'm not going to read what I get for the gold, silver, bronze, and platinum. I'm not going to read all. I'm just going to choose the
middle option because it's a routine purchase I don't want to waste any effort on it. It drives me crazy that the carwash I go through has four options and I have to spend some
time deciding do I want option two or option three. I never take one. I never take four. I take what I experience going through the car wash and that I just blow that up, make the
numbers a lot bigger. Now when the numbers are bigger, you're willing to spend more cognitive load. I think the principle applies, I just know from my own experience, I really like
three options. I'm okay with four options, but if it's a rote decision, it drives me crazy that I have to choose between two middle options. Three options is really powerful. Three
options also changes the question that you're asking the client to answer in a one-option, one-price proposal. The question is, is this solution that I'm putting in front of you
worth the money that I'm asking to be paid? Yes, you can do some ROI calculations when you're the client in this situation. As I've talked about previously, almost all of the
decisions we make in life are subjective and contextual. When we ask the client to make a decision about a proposal and there's only one option, one price, there's no context to
enable them to make the decision. We force them to go in search of that context, and by putting forward three options, we're able to provide the context and then when we can
provide the context, we can shape the context and nudge people in certain directions, such as the most expensive option is called the anchor price option. The job of that price is
not to sell that solution, it's there to frame the other options and other prices and make them look less expensive. That's one of the reasons it's there. There are a lot of
reasons we've covered them in earlier episodes on value-based pricing. When we talked about my book Pricing Creativity, when it came out five years ago this month, that's how long
we've been doing this. Three-option pricing is entirely, it's not only valid, if you're listening to this podcast, if you've been listening to this stuff for a few years and you're
not doing it, get your head out of the sand. This is the fastest way to just make more money quickly. It's the easiest way to make more money quickly. Start putting options in
front of your clients. David: What you're saying is not just the simple put options in front of them, especially if you think of it as good, better, best, but think of those
options as different ways to approach it. I could see somebody who has always presented a proposal with one price, and the options are yes or no, and they have this enlightened
moment. They decide to go to three-option pricing and they just automatically borrow from the SaaS world and start calling it good, better, best. The main point, I just want to
make sure that nobody misses here is that the three option stuff is good, but each one is a different approach to it. You're saying let's not just borrow everything from SaaS. The
three options is good, but it's more complex than that. That's the next point. The good, better, best is sort of, it's a really basic start that just misses so much of what could
be possible. Blair: I like to say the lowest expression of this three-option proposal idea is when your three options are three different-sized buckets of either inputs, time and
materials or outputs deliverables. The cheap price you get a little bit of time or a little bit of deliverable. The middle price you get a little bit more includes everything in
the A plus these other things. Then the expensive one is includes everything in A and B plus these other things. That's okay, that's valid. It's just the lowest expression of this
idea. The highest expression is the idea that your three options represent three different ways of doing business together. Three different ways in which the client might engage
you at three different price points. David: I just want to repeat that because that is such a critical. I think after all these years of knowing you and hearing this stuff and
talking about it, I think it's becoming even clearer for me now. The three options are not about, okay, I'm going to do this for you, I'm going to do this much more for you, I'm
going to do even this much more for you and it's going to cost you these three levels. That's not the idea here but that is the way we sort of experience it. What you're talking
about here is that these three different levels are different ways of working. There's more risk for not just the client but also for the provider, for the expert here. Three
levels is good but good, better, or best is the entry point here. Ideally, you're talking-- I'm just repeating what you're saying. I just think it's so important. I think we're
really missing this. It's about a different way of working, it's not just about more for the client, it's a different way of working at each level. Blair: Yes. Good, better, or
best is a judgment imposed by the salesperson on the options that are being put in front of the client, this is good but really, let's call it what it is, this is the cheap option,
this is the poor option, this is for people who can't afford it, aren't smart enough, aren't risk-takers- David: The losers. Blair: Yes. We're imbuing it with judgment. That
judgment of good, better, thinking of, talking of, and naming them in terms of good, better, best, that's not necessarily there, it's the salesperson's decision to imbue that
judgment into those options. They're not kind of natively there when you're selling three different-sized buckets. You can just call them small, medium, and large, cheap, middle,
expensive. There's no judgment in that. That's still valid. It's still the lowest expression of this idea. Again, the highest expression is, let's think creatively about different
ways that you can engage us to achieve these outcomes. Now, let's just go back to the simple one of three different-sized buckets. I put three different options in front of you and
it's basically how much time you want to buy from me. My judgment might be that the best option for you is to spend the most money with me because then I can have the biggest
impact in your business. The reason I don't like this judgment of the options, my thesis is that it doesn't matter how good of a salesperson I am, I am never going to uncover all
of the variables that you have to consider in making this decision. Every decision we make in life contains trade-offs, multiple, multiple trade-offs so if you are the client, and
I'm putting an option in front of you and I'm saying this is the best option for you, what I mean by that is this option allows me to do my best for you but what I'm not taking
into consideration when I put this judgment of best on this is whether or not this really is the best for you when you weigh all of the circumstances and one of those
circumstances, an obvious one is price, you're going to spend a lot more money. The other one that almost never gets spoken about is career risk. If you spend this much money with
me and I don't do what I say I'm going to do, I don't hit the results, you might lose your job. Who am I, the salesperson, to say that you're making a poor decision based on that?
I don't even know what those variables are, right? That's just one obvious example, this idea of career risk. I don't know what you're going through with your boss, I don't know
what's in your boss's mind, I don't know how tenuous your position is, I don't know if there's a potential sale of the business coming up and there's just no way anybody's going to
approve or should approve an expenditure of that level. There's so many variables, I have to accept that I have not uncovered all of those variables. I am in no position to impose
my judgment on you on what the best decision is. David: I could see their seat being warm at the moment and they can't afford to take much of a risk, in which case, one of the
options might make sense but I could also see the opposite, where their seat isn't warm, but they have this rare intersection of opportunity where there's a little bit more money,
a little bit more time, they've earned a little bit more leverage, and it's really worth it from their standpoint to take this risk and go deeper and really change something,
really transform it, in which case, that might be the best choice. David: Other than just $100, $150, $200, the price stuff for the three, can you illustrate with some other
examples of the three different ways to engage a client? Blair: There are really only three things that you can price and sell. We've talked about this on earlier pricing episodes
as well. You can sell the inputs of time and materials. You can sell the outputs of the deliverable, the website, the app, the campaign, or you can sell the outcome, the value that
you propose to create or to help create and that last one is known as value-based pricing. Those three things that you can price and sell now, start to think creatively about your
proposal options and imagine and I'm not saying this is the way to do it, or this is the right way, or even the best way. What I would say is it's the highest expression of this
idea of a three-option proposal. Is when your options align with those three different things that you can price and sell and the client can buy from you. I might say to you,
David, I've got three different ways that you can work with us at three different price points. I'll start with the most expensive one. I'm calling it partnership because this is
where you're engaging us. You're not paying us for the deliverable, you're not paying us for time, you're engaging us to work with you until these outcomes are achieved. That's why
I call it partnership. There's no cap on time. We have an idea of what the deliverables will be, and we'll talk about that. We're not limited to those deliverables. We're committed
to working with you until these outcomes are achieved. It's very expensive. It's priced at X. It might be, let's call it $150,000. Let's say you have a $50,000 budget, and I've
priced this at $150. It could be $500, it could be 1.5 million. The numbers don't really matter, but let's just pick something simple. I might price that at $150,000. I'm calling
it partnership. This is value-based pricing where you're paying me to work with you till the goals are achieved. If you're intrigued with this option, but you want to make sure
that we're really aligned, you might push back and say, okay, I want some of that compensation tied to incentives. That's another discussion, but that's a valid discussion. Now,
we're still in value-based pricing, but we're getting into performance pay territory. That's the most expensive option where I'm proposing you pay for the value that we create and
we're removing the limitations on time and deliverables. Now we can set some really broad limitations, or we can remove them entirely. We can say, we'll work with you for 12 months
to throw as many people as we have to, as many iterations, et cetera. Obviously, we would only propose this if we were familiar enough with the problem in the scenario, and we had
a high degree of confidence in our ability to actually do what we're saying we can do. That's one option. Another option. I might say, go to the other end of the spectrum, the
cheap end, and say, you said your budget was $50,000, for $50,000, we'll sell you some time. We price our two or six-week sprints at this much. You get these many sprints and we'll
see how far we can get. In the middle option, it might be that middle thing that we can price and sell and that is the output. If the client is looking for, let's say they came to
us looking for a website or an app, and they were looking to achieve these goals that we talked about with the expensive option. We can say, yes, for $50,000, we sell you some
time. There's no promise that we'll get the app built, but for $100,000, you get price certainty, we'll absolutely deliver an app at the specs that you outlined for $100,000.
There's three different ways that you can hire us. We can sell you $50,000 worth of time. You can spend a little bit more, $100,000, and then you know you will get the deliverable
you're looking for. You will get the app. If you spend 150,000 with us, we'll not only deliver, the app will keep iterating on the app until certain outcomes are achieved. Now,
there are lots of things you could pull on there, including the pricing, because the pricing for the higher one should be much higher. The gap should be bigger between the
deliverable and the value option or the output option, but that represents three different ways that you the client can hire me the agency, or the consultant. Three different price
points. David: I've got a lot of dev shop clients, and I was thinking about something you said early in this episode about how it's not just risk on the part of the client, but
also on the agency. It seems like a lot of folks default to this input side of things like two-week sprints and so on. Not because the client insists on it, but because they are
hesitant to take the risk of a bad estimate where they lose money. They've gotten burned so many times, they're actually very happy just to get paid for all their time without any
sort premium or additional risk on top of it. Do you see the same thing? Bliar: Yes, I see it. I was talking to somebody about this today. People who run agile shops, they're like
vegans. They're like so absolutely committed to this project management and pricing methodology. You and I have talked about how, I don't want to put words in your mouth, but from
my point of view, I get it, I see the benefits of it. I think there's a lot good about agile, but at the end of the day, it's a labor arbitrage model. You're selling time. Now, the
good news is you can be a 100% utilized as an agile shop, so you're a utilization rates, you can do really well in selling time, but just selling time period is only going to get
you so far. There's a question of whether or not your incentives are appropriately aligned with the client's goals. David: Yes. I asked earlier to think of different ways we might
describe this instead of good, better, best, it might be inputs, outputs, outcomes, and so on. It might be a retainer or project fee or performance pay. Talk about some different
names that are not judgmental but are more descriptive, because I think people buy what you're saying right now. I think they just need help putting it into practice. Like, "Ah,
that makes sense." Now, what do I call it? What would I call it different? Blair: Yes, so if it's not good, better, best, gold, silver, bronze, economy, economy plus, first class.
Whatever [crosstalk] David: You've been flying [chuckles] recently, you know what me off is, I'm platinum and American and diamond in Delta, but there should be some mandate that
they all use the same stuff, right? Because I want to compare myself with somebody else and it's hard to do. Blair: What's higher? I've never known, what's higher, diamond or
platinum? David: In American platinum is highest and in Delta it's diamond. I'm the guy sitting there as you walk past me to go to the back of the plane. Blair: Yes. [laughter]
See, in Canada we call it like it is. Air Canada, it's various levels of elite, then there's super elite. David: Oh. [chuckles] Blair: Yes. [chuckles] David: All right, so back to
names here. Give us some better names for this. Blair: Okay. The names of your options should be descriptive in the example I just gave, partnership, deliverable and time. Those
could be the names of your options. That's what you're buying. You're buying a partnership, you're buying the deliverable, or you're buying units of time. That's one way you could
name it. You could name it working from cheapest to most expensive now. You could also call it sprints, website and the partnership option. You can call it 2 million in revenue.
Assuming that that's the goal of the client for this app, to generate 2 million in net revenue. You could call it website plus campaign, so deliverable, deliverable. 20,000
marketing qualified leads. That's the outcome the client is looking for. You can think about it this way too. You can have an option that's like, here, let's do a little bit of
work real quickly so we can test the quality and the nature of the relationship, and we might call that the quick start, so that's the quick start option. Then there might be the
six-month campaign, then there might be the monthly retainer with an annual commitment, so you'd call it quick start six-month campaign retainer. You're just describing what it is
that the client is buying from you and you're not getting cute. Well, I've seen a lot of cuteness [chuckles] in the names of options on proposals. You don't get cute, but most
importantly, you don't get judgmental. You do not impose your almost certainly flawed, absolutely biased judgment of the client's decision. It's the client's decision to make the
trade-offs are theirs to make. You will never know all of the trade-offs they have to make. You have no business telling them this one is better than the other one. David: One
thing I love about this approach is that it's never going to work unless there is a conversation happening where you are asking lots of questions and answering questions too, but
you're asking lots of questions to even figure out what these options should be. Because you're never going to be able to propose three completely different approaches to a
prospective client unless you've done lots of discovery in a way that's in their self-interest, so that's good. It just forces you to be a good salesperson. Blair: Yes, it's a
great point. David: All right, so summarize this for us. Blair: Okay, so I'm all for, three-option, four-option proposals. Options in your proposals are good. It's also these three
different-sized buckets of inputs or outputs. That's a good first step. That's completely valid. It's just the lowest expression of this idea of three options, but even at that,
we're still not imbuing the options with any judgment. That's the lowest expression, just three different-size buckets. The highest expression is three different ways of doing
business together, so it's basically time deliverable partnership, which speaks to value-based pricing, getting paid for the value that you're helping to create. That's the highest
expression. Regardless of what you choose, those two are anything in between. You should have no judgment in the names for the reasons we've talked about a few times now. The
trade-offs are the clients to make. You don't even know what all of those trade-offs are. The way you need to think about it is you're putting three entirely valid options in front
of the client. If they want to save some money and take the risk that they're not going to get the outcome, that is their prerogative to do that. David: When you're putting these
three proposals together, you know how much risk you are incurring each of these, and you wouldn't be resentful if they picked any of these, right? You're okay if they pick any of
them. You really want to make sure it's a good fit, but you're not going to be resentful if they choose one in particular. Blair: Yes, you shouldn't be resentful of all the options
you've put forward. Again, there's an exception to this if you're negotiating with the price buyer, but we'll leave that aside for now. All the options you put forward, you should
be okay with a client choosing any of them. Generally speaking, we're more okay if the client chooses the more expensive ones, but sometimes when the client chooses the really
expensive one, it's a source of stress for us because we think, we're really on the hook here. We've taken all the risk in this relationship. We'll earn a lot of money as a result
if we achieve the outcomes we've promised to achieve. We're taking all the risks, so we're not necessarily happiest when a client chooses the most expensive one, but we should
never put forward an option that we would not be happy to deliver on. We shouldn't be secretly hoping, oh, I really, really, really hope they choose this one. It's okay to have a
preference. It's okay to subtly nudge somebody towards an option, and you would do that by making one a charm price, changing the way the price looks. There are other ways to do
this. We've talked about nudges previously, but generally speaking, you should see your role in the closing conversation with the three-option proposal. Your role is facilitator.
I've got three entirely different valid ways that you can hire us. They're different price points, so there are different trade-offs. Obviously, some of the trade-offs are the
amount you pay and the risk you take. Let me explain the benefits and obviously the cost associated with each option. Then, madam client, it's your decision, you choose. David:
This is good. It's sort of down in the weeds, but it's so important because we just kind of slap these titles on things and are creating judgment calls, which aren't necessary.
This has been great, Blair. Thank you. Blair: Thanks, David. Previous Inbound, Outbound, and In Between Next Reverse Trojan Horse Syndrome HOME EVENTS Blair Enns Blair Enns is on a
mission to change the way creative services are bought and sold the world over. He is the CEO of Win Without Pitching, the sales training and coaching program for creative
professionals, and a 25-year veteran of the business side of the advertising and design professions. He is the author of The Four Conversations: A New Model for Selling Expertise,
Pricing Creativity: A Guide to Profit Beyond the Billable Hour, and The Win Without Pitching Manifesto. David C. Baker David C. Baker is an author, speaker, and advisor, helping
entrepreneurial experts make better business decisions. He’s worked with 1,000+ firms. His work has been discussed in the Wall Street Journal, USA Today, Fast Company. Inc.
Magazine, Forbes, MarketingProfs, and BusinessWeek. He is the author of Selling Your Professional Service Firm, Secret Tradecraft of Elite Advisors, The Business of Expertise,
Managing (Right) for the First Time, and Financial Management of a Marketing Firm. He was referred to as “The Expert’s Expert” in the NY Times. Anyone who’s seen the Office Space
movie will immediately get the reference for “2 Bobs.” Each of us has been cast as “one of the Bobs” in our work with marketing firms and creatives of all types, so it seemed
appropriate to just embrace the connection and extend the inside joke. Milton, the red stapler, TPS reports, and coming to work on Saturday seem wickedly familiar. In each episode,
we take turns interviewing each other on a particular theme, for 20-35 minutes. We wander when appropriate, and it’s a bit authentically raw at times, but we want to capture
conversations with minimal editing. Both of us love working with entrepreneurial creatives and you’ll see our admiration bleed all over the conversation. You’ll also experience
candor, disagreement, and admonition when appropriate. © David C. Baker and Win Without Pitching. Website and audio by Marcus dePaula. 0 notifications Home 7 My Network Jobs
Messaging 19 Notifications Me For Business Attract clients with Premium Page Bryceden Jones Bryceden Jones Founder portraits + visual systems · LA · Building the Direction Stack
Los Angeles, California Sniped Media Profile viewers 413 Post impressions 30 Feed post View Peter Kang’s profile Peter Kang • 3rd+ Acquiring & growing specialized agencies
($500k-$1.5M EBITDA), Co-founder of Barrel Holdings, Author of The Holdco Guide Visit my website 1yr • Follow The three-option proposal framework and its different expressions...
In "The Four Conversations", a new book by Blair Enns, he advises on a one-page proposal that consists of 3 options: a high anchor, a middle option, and a budget option. He writes:
"The biggest case for a multi-option proposal is that it changes the question we are asking the client, from the objective 'Is this proposal worth this much money?' to the
subjective 'Which of these is the best value?'" The three-option proposal framework is a canvas for pricing creativity (which happens to be a title of an earlier book by Blair).
It's made possible through the first 3 conversations (The Probative, The Qualifying, and The Value conversations) that provide the inputs to crafting a compelling proposal. Blair
shares a few different "expressions" of the three-option proposal. The lowest expression, not shown here, is one in which the options are distinguished only by the amount of time
or deliverables. Budget one gets a little bit, middle one gets a bit more, and the anchor gets the most. The Three Levels of Problem Solving is a step up (and is one that we've
most commonly used at Barrel), in which the middle option is exactly what the client is looking for but the anchor option introduces other value creation activities inferred from
the conversations. For Barrel, the anchor option might combine website build with SEO, email, and CRO retainers. The Three Ways to Hire Us is yet another step up, where the
"Partnership" anchor option indicates some performance-based pay where an agency's comp can be at risk. The middle option is what the client is looking for, and the budget option
is a block of time. The Blending of Standardized and Customized approach is one where an agency might have an easily repeatable and productized solution that's sold at budget and
middle tiers. The customized option is reserved for those with much larger budgets and greater needs. Over the years, we've played around with many variations of this framework and
learned a great deal. The important piece is that the conversations you have early on really set the stage for what's possible in the anchor option. If you fail to get a sense of
the value drivers in their business and don't really know how your work can move the needle for the client, your high-priced option may get a very cold reception. Btw, my advice:
don't just blindly copy the three-option framework and then complain about it when it doesn't work like we foolishly did back in the day. Take the time to read Blair's book,
sharpen your sales process, and tenaciously experiment – gather feedback and iterate as needed. View image 104 reactions104 15 comments15 comments Like Comment Repost Send Most
relevant View Jamie Smyth’s profile Jamie Smyth Premium Profile 2ndJamie Smyth • 2nd CEO @ The Smyth Group | USA-Based Custom Software Strategy, Design, and Development 1yr Follow
Nice post Peter. We try to keep the same mindset when we draft proposals. Not about “do you want your ditch 100 feet long or 200 feet long?”—that’s a cop out. We want options to
feel like different EXPERIENCES for the customer, kind of like coach vs. premium economy vs. first class. In my custom software development agency, for example: 1.Core Build – We
create the app based on the client’s current scope. 2.Extended Build + Support – Includes the core build plus marketing, data integration, data migration, and staff training.
3.Strategic Partnership – Ongoing collaboration over two years where we keep refining the scope based on real-world feedback and changing priorities—no extra costs or “change
orders” every time we pivot. The key is giving the client real choices that match their needs and appetite for impact, not just more of the same. But to do this properly, there’s a
lot of upstream work. But I’ve learned a LOT from Blair Enns 5 reactions5 22 See previous replies View Jamie Smyth’s profile Jamie Smyth Premium Profile 2ndJamie Smyth • 2nd CEO @
The Smyth Group | USA-Based Custom Software Strategy, Design, and Development 1yr Follow Peter Kang well, to be frank, not much - mostly because of the nature of our work, size of
our team and our horizontal position. HOWEVER, using the principle of “anchor high”, always say a number before we show a number and understanding the concepts and vocabulary of
the value conversation has really helped us in the qualifying and value conversations.… more 0 View Blair Enns’ profile Blair Enns Premium Profile 3rd+Blair Enns • 3rd+ Founder,
Win Without Pitching | Sell & Price Like The Expert You Are 1yr Follow Thank you for the mention, Peter! 2 reactions2 22 See previous replies View Blair Enns’ profile Blair Enns
Premium Profile 3rd+Blair Enns • 3rd+ Founder, Win Without Pitching | Sell & Price Like The Expert You Are 1yr Follow Tim Kilroy 🙏 0 View Andy Brenits’ profile Andy Brenits
Verified Profile 3rd+Andy Brenits • 3rd+ Brand & Business Growth Advisor | I help founder-led professional services & B2B companies define what’s on-brand, off-brand, and exactly
how to act on it without losing time, money, or momentum 1yr Follow Peter Kang A few years ago I heard Blair Enns describe the four conversations and 1-page proposal on the 2 Bobs
and Ilise Benun talking about the “proposal Oreo” and tiered pricing on The Marketing Mentor podcast. From that point on I have only delivered a 1-page proposal with 3
options/fees. Not only does it save time and effort, but I haven’t lost a project since. The conversations preceding the proposal are critical.… more 4 reactions4 View Tomas
Riegos’ profile Tomas Riegos Premium Profile 2ndTomas Riegos • 2nd 🌳 Nature-based solutions | Regenerative finance 1yr Follow John Krueger Brilliant 1 reaction1 View Jacopo
Rodeghiero’s profile Jacopo Rodeghiero Premium Profile 3rd+Jacopo Rodeghiero • 3rd+ Strategia. Creatività. Performance | Co-founder Regina Rossa 1yr Follow Blair Enns books are
very insightful! in the three options framework Peter Kang is important in my opinion avoid options too low (in terms of value delivered) because are also risky for the agency if
client become frustrated by results under expectations. 1 reaction1 View Joao Landeiro MSc.’s profile Joao Landeiro MSc. 3rd+Joao Landeiro MSc. • 3rd+ Productize with Workshops ✺ I
Design Flagship Workshops for Expertise Businesses 1yr Follow this feels like a wonderful post to convert into a short video. Like a Loom. (not trying to create more homework for
you :) ) 0 View Ivona Namjesnik’s profile Ivona Namjesnik Verified Profile 3rd+Ivona Namjesnik • 3rd+ Building AgencyHabits Publicly | Psychotherapist-in-Training 1yr Follow I just
love how this framework shifts the focus from price to impact. This way, value leads the conversation, not cost. 0 View Chris Spurvey’s profile Chris Spurvey Premium Profile
3rd+Chris Spurvey • 3rd+ Feast or Famine for Consulting Leaders Is Structural. Not Bad Luck. 1yr Follow The three-option proposal framework is a game-changer in consulting,
shifting the client’s mindset from “should I buy?” to “which option is best for me?” One thing I’ve found is that success with this approach comes down to how well you’ve handled
the early diagnostic conversations… if you haven’t uncovered value drivers, your high anchor will fall flat. Experimenting with different expressions of this framework is key. It’s
not just about offering tiers… it’s about positioning your services in a way that aligns with what truly moves the needle for the client.… more 0 View Chris Wolf’s profile Chris
Wolf 3rd+Chris Wolf • 3rd+ Founder & CEO at Laramate GmbH | Solutions for SMEs with Laravel | Statamic | AI | API 1yr Follow Etheldreda D. NANFA, MBA, M.A. 0 View Chris Raven’s
profile Chris Raven Verified Profile 3rd+Chris Raven • 3rd+ Co-owner/founder of Heur. We’ve pioneered a unique agency service to unlock profitable, long term growth of brands D2C
channel, from P&L accountability to trading execution, customer acquisition and retention. 1yr Follow Ben St. George check this out, also the 2Bobs podcast for more!! 0 About
Accessibility Help Center Privacy & Terms Ad Choices Advertising Business Services Get the LinkedIn app More LinkedIn Corporation © 2026 Bryceden JonesStatus is online Messaging
You are on the messaging overlay. Press enter to open the list of conversations. Compose message You are on the messaging overlay. Press enter to open the list of conversations.
Sniped Media picture Sniped Media Home About Reading List Articles Agency Journey Barrel Holdings Subscribe to Peter’s Newsletter Peter Kang Co-founder of Barrel Holdings Lessons
from Pricing Creativity by Blair Enns February 11, 2018 by Peter Kang comments 5 agency-biz / book-lessons Lessons from Pricing Creativity by Blair Enns Pricing Creativity: A Guide
to Profit Beyond the Billable Hour is a book that provides rules and tactics to help creative professionals charge more for new work and run a more profitable business. It’s by
Blair Enns, the founder of Win Without Pitching, a training program that helps creative professionals win more business. I’ve been a follower of Enns for some years, having paid
for access to his materials, enrolling in his online course, signing up for his webinars, and listening to his podcast. I really enjoyed reading this book and found myself texting
excerpts to my partners at Barrel, insisting that we ought to try X and Y approach the very next day. Enns references quite a bit of the popular psychology terms that’s all the
rage in business books these days, especially the different types of cognitive biases that shape our behavior. What I appreciated was how he tied these concepts to the everyday
situations that creative professionals face when working with prospects and clients, and how, by understanding their biases, we can influence them into making decisions that can
improve our outcomes. This post isn’t a summary or a detailed overview of the book but thoughts on some of the takeaways that I found immediately applicable to my work at Barrel.
Enns presents 6 “Rules” that make up something of a framework for pricing based on value and not by selling time. Five of those rules are represented in my takeaways below. There’s
a great deal of detail and practical advice that I don’t discuss here, including the emphasis Enns puts on “mastering the value conversation.” If you are in the creative services
profession, I would highly recommend investing in the book, which you need to buy off of the website. One successful application of his tactics might net you 10X+ what you spend on
the book. Lesson 1: Price the Client and Not the Job A principle of price negotiation is that the sooner in the sale you offer a price, the lower it is likely to be. Understanding
the client’s context, and therefore your potential for value creation, takes time. If you find yourself offering prices early, you’re almost certainly short-circuiting the patient
information-gathering that needs to happen in order to price based on value. This wasn’t a revelation for us at Barrel, but it was a good reminder that taking the time during the
information-gathering process to deeply understand the client and their business would help us form better ideas on the value of our services to the client. In fact, when I think
about one of the more significant changes a Barrel over the past 2-3 years, it’s been the shift away from seeing a new client as another project and instead, viewing them as a new
relationship with the potential for several projects that may span from website redesigns to analytics and advertising work. Lesson 2: Present Options in Your Proposals One of the
biggest pricing mistakes that creative professionals make is to put a proposal in front of the client that contains only one option. In such a take-it-or-leave-it proposition there
are only two outcomes, 50% of which are positive and 50% of which are negative. If you resolve from hereon to always put three options in your proposals, you will increase the
percentage of positive outcomes by half. Presenting options changes the question you are asking the client from, “Does this proposal represent good value?” to a better question,
“Which of these proposals is the best value?” The brain is wired to answer the second question. In fact, it is incapable of answering the first question without first answering the
second. I’ve seen this work when it comes to our support & maintenance packages. It’s something we’ve been rolling out in more and more of our proposals. I can recall so many
conversations where I presented just a single price and the client, wanting a point of comparison, would go out and shop around only to get flustered because the prices were so
vastly different from each other as was the understanding of what was and wasn’t included. Lesson 3: Anchor with a High-Priced Option “Anchoring is the tendency to rely too heavily
on the first piece of information received,” Enns writes. Combined with the lesson above on presenting options in our proposals, I really like the idea of having an anchor option
that pegs the value of an engagement very high in the prospect’s mind. For a client with a budget of $20k, for example, it might make sense to begin with a $100k case study,
allowing the firm to show the depth and breadth of its work while leveraging a high anchor. By comparison, a second case study at the $50k investment level will look reasonable,
and a $30k option might look like a bargain. A lazy mistake we’ve made over the years is to find out a client’s budget and to craft an option at exactly that level or perhaps a
little bit higher, hoping the depth of the proposal’s details would impress and encourage more spending. This, of course, rarely happened. What I’d like to see us doing more, per
Enns’s advice, is to anchor with something high that equates to a “deluxe / the works” version, have a floor at the client’s budget that achieves the bare minimum, and present a
middle tier that inspires the client to spend more while also getting more. In terms of coming up with an anchor price, I really liked the question Enns poses in this highlight:
Whatever your answer to this question of, “What would we do, and charge, if money were no object?” it’s a great anchor option. When you present your proposal, beginning with this
