] Everyone said like, "Oh, I watch people the Tik Tockification of like, you know, 55:01 like stuff like that." I don't get upset. I'm flattered. You're like, "Let's go." I'm
flattered. You're like the homie that you hang around and you 55:07 just start picking up on their jargon. By the way, in real life, I'm that person. I uh I started for And by the
55:13 way, I I started saying heard instead of got it now. Like just all my whole world, everyone's like heard heard. And 55:20 everybody like comes into it, they're like, "What is
this shit?" I'm like, "But by the way, I do not believe I was 55:25 the person that invented herd. I'm sure I subconsciously heard someone say it." Like the audacity to think
you're the 55:32 one. By the way, what I said earlier, everyone's like, "But but Gary Vee is a Z Frank or a rocket boom or even a Dne 55:38 Cook and Tila Tequila. Throw it back."
Right. So, like I don't think I invented 55:44 anything. I think I've added my variation like we've all have because I'm uniquely me. 55:50 But man, people are audacious out here.
Insecure. They really are. They really 55:56 are. Like I watch everybody move cuz I spend a lot of time watching people move. 56:03 I'm at events where I'm like staying in line cuz
I don't even give a [ __ ] And like people go in the front line like I 56:09 have 80,000 Tik Tok followers. I'm like man people are [ __ ] emotionally 56:14 broke. Mhm. Lack of
humility is destroying a generation. 56:20 Yeah, 100p. Well, you're doing good getting them back on it with your content. So, I have two more for you and we got to get you out of
here on time. I What platforms you should spend the most attention on 56:26 want to know about the platforms you want to spend the most attention on right now. Like, what are they?
List them for me. That's a really good 56:33 question. Me or what I want all of you to do? Cuz me me I already alluded to. I've got to 56:40 get much more serious of my YouTube and
and my podcast because I've com those 56:46 require production and more meaningful thought. I took my social media excellence and I bled it into my YouTube 56:54 proper and and and
podcast and that hurt me there. So I Gary have to do better at 57:00 that in a world where many of you got that right. So I've got to do better with that in 57:05 26. Okay. And
live streaming. Okay. Give me the other platforms real quick for other people. Other people. It is a 57:12 Facebook Facebook Facebook. LinkedIn. LinkedIn. 57:18 LinkedIn. YouTube
Shorts. Still shorts. Okay. Shorts. Snap Spotlight is a 57:24 monster for people. Really? Yeah. Cuz no one's [ __ ] with it and there's a lot of attention there. Okay. Here's how
it 57:30 works. An 18-year-old that you're all trying to get on Tik Tok and Instagram, they're messaging on Snap, they're not 57:36 looking at spotlight often, but just enough that
there's so much attention there and no one's [ __ ] there. Wow. 57:43 Okay. I love it. Last Twitter. Twitter X is a monster monster and a lot more people should be IRLing. And then
57:49 finally, here's a good one actually for I'm so glad I would have not I'm so pumped right now. Okay, everyone who's 57:54 listening, this kind of audience, all of you have to
give a real try. Oh, this is going to be so good. Ready? Uhhuh. Many 58:02 of you who are listening right now will never become me. And you're trying to be. And I don't say that
cuz I think I'm 58:07 cool. I'm going to say something important. Many people listening right now are destined to be hundreds of thousands of 58:13 followers, not tens of millions,
which is still remarkable. 58:19 But a lot of people here who are trying to have millions or tens of millions or hundreds of millions and are destined to 58:24 fall short and will
not win and then have to get regular jobs if they start live social shopping 58:31 will be able to make millions of dollars selling stuff on whatnot and Tik Tok shop and all the
future platforms. So, I 58:36 think there's a whole group. I think 80% of the people listening right now are 43K, 113K, 400K will never get to like 58:45 the millions of dollars a
year they're trying to get to being just an influencer, but actually have 58:50 salesmanship in you. If you've ever sold blow pops or candy or t-shirts or DVDs, 58:56 if you sell
and you're an influencer, immediately get your ass to whatnot and Tik Tok shop and start selling [ __ ] 59:02 Selling things that like you buy on Tik Tok shop and then Right. Is
that what you're Well, that's affiliate. Okay. You're saying like brand build your 59:09 brand off of that and then Yeah. Like I'm saying like for you like you guys should
literally sell a pet rock on 59:16 whatnot and Tik Tok shop and just see how it goes. I don't know if you guys are salesman or not, but there are a lot of people listening right
now. You know 59:21 who's like a good You know who's a good demo for this? Pretty girl culture. Pretty girl culture. A lot You know, you 59:27 look at pharmaceutical sales and real
estate. There's a lot of young women right now who are attractive and like 59:33 they feel like that's going to get them there and it needs more but they happen to be good at sales
and there was a 59:41 whole generation pre- internet that those pretty girls went into real estate and pharmaceutical sales. I think a lot 59:46 of these girls are not going to get
to that place and instead of going only fans cuz that's the easy way. I think 59:52 the other thing to consider is live social shopping. I love it. I'm going to get you out of
here. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been episode 161 59:58 with Gary Vaynerchuk live in New York City. We'll see you guys all next week. FULL EPISODES THE 505 PODCAST 3 / 198
Intro 0:00 always my formula for anyone starting to create content. It should be the equation of three one two one. So three 0:05 attract, one nurture, two position, and one
convert. That's Junu. And that single framework is the reason his 0:11 content doesn't just get views, it builds businesses. After over 5 years of posting daily, he's built an
audience of 0:17 over 8 million and turned his personal brand into millions in revenue. Creative College in the last 9 months 0:22 did $3.6 million. June is living proof that you
don't need the perfect setup or a big production team to win in today's game. I grew my 0:28 first three million followers with a shattered iPhone 12. And everything he teaches
comes back to one core belief. 0:35 But for the very first time, you have access to one piece of content that can reach millions of people that shares exactly who you are, what you
stand for, 0:41 and what you have to offer. And if you do that effectively, you will never chase another opportunity again. In this episode, June breaks down 0:47 content like
we've never heard before. And today, you're going to learn all of his secrets. I promise after this episode, you'll never look at content 0:53 the same again. If you go into one
day with me and you actually sit down and consume content with me, I guarantee the 1:00 way that you look at content again afterwards will never be the same. Real quick, before we
dive into this amazing Paid Offer Playbook 1:06 episode with June, we want to tell you about an amazing free product we have for you guys. It's called the paid offer playbook. We
understand that one of the 1:13 biggest struggles creators go through when trying to build and monetize a personal brand is figuring out what to 1:18 sell. That's why we created
the paid offer playbook to help you get massive clarity on a product that your audience 1:23 is absolutely going to love. So check it out. It's the first link in the description.
Let's get into this episode. Okay, June, you've posted a piece of Consistency Is a System, Not a Personality Trait 1:30 content every day for six years. You've amassed an audience
of over 8 million. Is consistency you think the number one 1:37 thing that people need in their content? I definitely think it's part of the equation because I think the larger
body 1:43 of work that you have, the more you can extrapolate in terms of common successful patterns. But I believe when 1:48 people hear me say that I've posted every single day
for the last six years, they believe that I've been creating every single day for the last six years. 1:54 And that's not true. So I really do believe for a creator to be
consistent. It speaks much more to the back end of 2:00 how that creator operates. And so for me, it's very systematic based. I come from an engineering discipline, so it 2:05
certainly helps. So I do a lot of repurposing. I do a lot of batching. I do a lot of mixing of loweffort and high effort contents. And when you do that, 2:12 you're not necessarily
creating every day and you can still show up regularly. So I when I think a creator isn't 2:18 operating on a consistent level, it usually speaks to the fact that they don't have a
system on the back end. And that is more of the telltale sign that 2:24 they won't be successful as much as that they would like to be. So I think consistency is that first
barometer for success, but there's usually much more 2:30 behind the scenes that if you unveil it that you could help them in terms of the operation. So what do those systems look
like for Why Most Creators Fail Without a Backend Process 2:37 success? If you were to help a creator say, "Okay, 2026 is the year I'm going to stay super consistent." What does
2:42 that backend look like and what needs to be in place for them to stay consistent? It's a beautiful question and there's so much nuance that goes into it whenever 2:48 you're
thinking about all the different stages of being a creator. Today, my system is a lot more evolved than it was 2:55 when I first started, but it really does boil down to what are
you posting and how are you packaging it? So, what are 3:00 the content ideas that you have and ultimately which formats are you repurposing or do you know that you have 3:06 a
high confidence rate that it'll be successful? And so, if you boil down everything to that, ultimately a content 3:11 plan, a really good one, helps you a ton. But really after you
study content the way that you would study any 3:17 discipline, you start to recognize that nobody's really reinventing the wheel in its entirety. And so for me, I have this 3:24
entire principle called the creative vision. And the creative vision is oftentimes when I go and speak that that's what I normally speak about. But 3:30 the creative vision is this
three-pronged approach. You have the creative vision, you can write your name 3:36 with apostrophes s and then creative vision at the very top. And then you have your first branch
called the what. 3:41 And that is ultimately the message you're presenting and the various content pillars that you're using to share that with. Then second branch is 3:47 your
who, your target avatar. So the demographic and the psychoraphic. And then ultimately you have your uniqueness. This is your story, your 3:53 truth, your experiences, your skill
sets. And so that really helps me understand which content ideas are aligned to my personal brand while still 3:59 allowing me to diversify. And then the formats. I do this
practice called the 7 by7. And every single two weeks I'll 4:06 study 49 pieces of content. So, it's seven creators I look up to and seven of their highest performing formats and
4:11 I'll study it at great detail and it'll help me understand how do I package that content. So, when you combine the creative vision and the 7 by7 ultimately 4:18 you have
content that is going to work more often than not. Have you felt burnt out at all? I mean, I know that this is something you've The Creator Vision Framework Explained 4:25 done for
quite a bit of time. You're also still so young, but you've been at it for every single day. What like what 4:31 refills that cup up and what what what are the other things in the
background that you have in place? So even if 4:38 you're not feeling it that day, we still have something that's going out. Have I ever felt burnt out? The truth is 4:44 no. And I
don't even think that I've been very close to it. And I think I'm very very blessed in terms of the 4:50 background that I come from. So for me, I come from a very poor immigrant
household. And when I see my dad working 4:57 a bluecollar job the way that he has my entire life and my dad having to go through the separation after my parents' 5:03 divorce, it
gives you perspective, right? in the sense of knowing what is actually burnout, what's actually hard. 5:09 And therefore, when I pursued my bachelor's and masters in biomedical
engineering while building my first million-dollar business as a senior in 5:15 college, that felt hard, but it wasn't to the point that I was burning out. And so, I think
perspective really does help 5:21 drive performance when you calibrate it perfectly uh perfectly the way that I have. And so, I think that's a big part 5:27 to it. I think the
other part to it is just understanding that a lot of people are afraid to repurpose their content. 5:32 They think that because let's say you filmed a B-roll a few years ago and
you try posting again that it's going to 5:38 feel redundant to your audience, but it never does. And I've been doing that for the last six years and I still have been able to
build an audience around it. So 5:44 you will see my phone photo album in my phone and also in terms of our Dropbox shared folder with the team and it's 5:49 just listed by scene
actions, right? So if we know that we want a piece of content out, we know which format we just plug and play. So that definitely 5:55 helps too in terms of a systematic
standpoint. So in a Dropbox, it's like June writing, June eating, June, what 6:03 does it look like? What are these everything that you're saying? And up to this point in time now,
we have like 55 different clips in each of those. 6:09 Um, and we can pull from even young version of June doing X, older version of June doing Y. And it definitely helps 6:15 when
we're doing those storytelling content that's predicated around B-roll. So yes, it's literally listed out by scenes like that. So it's what I call my 6:22 scene library in terms of
managing my B-roll. Yeah, we got to get more organized on that. We're over here going through I'm 6:28 like, "Dude, this is in 2014." Like, you bring up a really interesting point,
though, because there's always a new set of eyes and How to Study Content Without Copying 6:34 ears to consume your content, and you're going to be consuming your content more than
anyone else because you're the one making it. 6:39 No doubt about it. And so, I've even found this to be true in the last week and a half of me 6:47 posting content every single
day. I'm like, "Fuck, I feel like I'm using the same B-roll clips or same photos to make 6:53 carousels." And I'm like, Well, who cares? Like, people who saw it 6:59 the first time
or didn't see the first time might see it or not see it this time. And it this is another chance for 7:04 me to be seen by a new audience who's never actually seen these photos of
me. So, I think that's also really interesting. But you also brought up uh 7:12 studying seven formats from seven creators. Do you find that the most successful 7:18 creators have
at least seven formats that they use? I think even if they 7:23 don't know they're doing seven different formats, when you actually study the nuances across, let's say even a
talking 7:29 head video will have many different discrepancies across a creator stylistic 7:35 choices. And so when you go through some one's content, you'll start to notice, 7:40
okay, this talking head is much more different. This talking head had multiple B-roll segmented in the very beginning of their hook, while this one, 7:46 let's say, had much more
of a static. it was just them putting their phone on the table and using it much more of a naturalistic standpoint. And so even in 7:53 that, I think a lot of creators actually do
have a lot more formats. I think the reason why people don't recognize is because they don't study their own 7:59 content or other people's as intensely as they should. And this
has always been the biggest biggest eye openening 8:05 experience that we do for all of our students at Creative College. Because if you go into one day with me and you 8:10
actually sit down and consume content with me, I guarantee the way that you look at content again afterwards will 8:16 never be the same. you'll go across your explore page and you
start picking up on things that you would have never thought about, but it completely changes your 8:22 perspective from a consumer standpoint to a creator standpoint. And so yes,
I do think actually a lot of creators do 8:28 the best ones have a lot of their formats. They might categorize it in one main bucket, but if you look at the 8:33 nuances, I think
there are a lot of differentiation. So what are some of those things that you're looking at? Like I think a lot of Breaking Down Winning Formats (Not Just Hooks) 8:38 people know
about a hook. Okay, first second, super important, but what are the other things that you're looking at that are like this is what really made 8:44 this video successful? I'll I'll
tell you exactly how I study it. So, I'll even go to the weeds to the point where 8:50 if I see what I call a silent film format, that is B-roll, music, and text. I will import it
to my cap cut and I 8:57 will literally break it up in terms of its scenes and its music and its cadence and its text 9:02 duration, every single part of it. So, I will see in my
brain, can I read this text aloud and how long has this text 9:08 been there? How many words are there naturally in this period of time? Am I looking at the call to action? does
this creative put in the middle of their 9:14 video and does this person put it at the end from story arcs. A lot of story arcs are oftentimes the same in terms of telling your
story from let's say 9:21 starting off with the pain and ultimately having some sort of pursuit and then a transformation. So I pay attention to all of those detail and 9:26 what
you start to recognize is that you will find one creator in the knitting space and then you'll find another 9:32 creator that is in the business space that are doing the exact same
thing from a format standpoint. So I've always had the ethos that if you want to be a 9:38 creator, you can. It's a skill that's learnable. And so I really do believe if people
understand from the format 9:44 formula standpoint, it really does open their eyes to it. And so those are some of the features that I look at. And then you can talk about in terms
of which 9:50 types of bureau are you using, static, dynamic, and all that in between. I think the closer you look at it, even if you did it for do you guys ever track 9:56 your
macros by any chance? Like in terms of food? Yeah, I have in the past when I was like, you know, really [ __ ] big. 10:03 I've gone through I've gone through stages of like
weighing out my food. Yes, exactly. And when a lot of trainers 10:09 will tell you that if you count your macros for even about a two month, three month period, you will never see
food 10:14 the same way. You'll start to be a lot more aware of what you're putting into your body. I think that's with content, too. So, if I can help you study content 10:21 for
about four weeks, I don't think you have to study that intensely afterwards, but you will completely change your perspective on the content. Why Niching Down Is Overrated 10:26
Yeah. Do you believe in niching down? I personally do not. I I do feel as 10:32 though some people can win in that world, but I've been creating content long enough to know that
you are 10:39 naturally going to have different interests over the span of your time creating. And for me, I don't want to be creating for the next two years or three 10:46 years
or four years. I want to be creating for the next 16 years, 17 years, 18 years. And I even know in the last six years, I've had a huge 10:52 evolution of my audience. So when I
first started, I was a student getting my bachelor's and masters in biomedical engineering. So I was creating a lot of 10:58 study-led content, right? Once I did that, I launched a
book that landed number one on Amazon's new releases, had 11:03 a digital product, and hit my first million dollars while I was still a student. Then after that, I went to a
mentorship program that actually went 11:09 into more of a wider demographic. So, I started to have a lot more working professionals inside of that. Then, we 11:15 launched
Creative College, which was completely different, more for entrepreneurs and creators. But, I've been able to have more successful 11:21 businesses each iteration and grow a larger
audience by understanding that you don't have to niche down. I think 11:26 it's much more powerful to find ultimately a message like what is the message that you want to convey and
then being able to branch out different 11:32 content pillars and I think what's really helpful is that if you are saying to me hey I really want to niche down 11:37 and I I just
want this particular topic the only thing that I'll ask of you is to actually tell your story significantly more because your story 11:44 tends to be that pivoting anchor. So, for
example, if you're going from, let's say, teaching about entrepreneurship to 11:50 teaching about artistry, right? If you could tell your story behind why you were in business to
why you chose this 11:56 new space of yours, if you could talk about the why a lot more versus the what, it allows your audience to champion you versus your tips, it allows 12:03
you to make that transition a lot more seamlessly than if people only knew you for a specific topic. So, I go through 12:08 this practice with everyone. Anyone that comes into
creative college or ever works with me personally, I go down to that creative vision and say, "Let's 12:14 find your message. Let's find your target avatar. Let's find your story.
And that's significantly more important to me than a niche. 12:21 Yeah, that's super interesting. But do do you feel though because you hear that you are the niche and I think that
“You Are the Niche” (What That Actually Means) 12:28 people struggle to conceptualize what that actually means in practice. And so if you were to explain to 12:35 someone, okay,
this is exactly what you are the niche actually means, what would you say? 12:40 Yeah. So I think the creator vision is literally the equivalent of what a niche 12:45 would be for
most people. So if I was to break it down and if we were sitting down together, I would say first let's 12:50 go into your what branch. Tell me your message that you want to convey
to the world. So for me it is something along the lines of a personal brand is the 12:57 greatest asset that anyone can build, right? Because I've experienced it myself. So I have
different content pillars such as content creation, the 13:03 skill of it from digital products to let's say even building up a team, relationships, whatever the case may be. 13:09
But the powerful part to that is that your message can be conveyed across different content pillars. So your 13:15 content doesn't feel the same to every single person and it
actually allows you to have much more differentiation in the 13:20 long term. So for another example could be if your message was that you believe everyone should live a life of
more 13:26 freedom so they get to do more of the what they want to do. Their content pillars may read travel, business tips, 13:32 financial tips, and even relationships with their
family. They can convey that message across multiple different pillars which allows them to not, let's 13:38 say, pigeon hole themselves into one topic. They're not a travel
creator. They're not, let's say, a relationship creator or a business creator. They're 13:45 they're them, the niche, and they have a message. And then you're looking at target
avatar, which is who your demographic and your psychoraphic. 13:51 Demographic is a bit more obvious, but psychographic I really dive into a lot. It's in terms of what is your
audience's 13:56 desires and what are their pain points? How can you best understand that? What type of content they currently watching? And so, there's a lot of content right
14:02 now. If you were to make a piece of content right now that said if you were between the ages of 17 24 and you're 14:08 struggling with burnout right now here's exactly what
you should be doing that content is very powerful because you've understood the avatar behind it. So if 14:14 you see it as someone 1724 struggling with burnout you're going to
actually be retained on that piece of content. The third branch is that storytelling one. 14:21 So it's your uniqueness branch your story your skill sets. And when I look at that
diagram, I start to extrapolate 14:26 many more differentiated ideas, but they all fit under this idea of a creator vision, like your entire branding. So 14:32 for me, I think it's
about getting an understanding of what type of ideas align with your brand, who is actually 14:38 receiving your content, and how can you tell more of your story. I think that's
much more of a holistic strategy than just finding one topic to dive into. Is It Too Late to Start Creating in 2026? 14:45 I like that. I also me and Brandon have been talking so
much about I don't know what is in the water in 2026. It seems 14:53 like the level of content has leveled up a little bit. Do you find that as well? And also 15:03 if someone
feels like ah maybe I missed the boat, you know, like do I still have time? 15:09 What would you say? I'd actually say that it's still early. The way that I think about it is I
15:14 believe there are about five billion users of social media and I believe when 15:20 I last checked it was like 200 million or so-called creators meaning that's about a 4%
difference right you have 15:27 literally a lot of time ahead of you and I think what happens is that we tend to look at 15:32 content that has a lot of high effort behind it right
so in terms of production quality especially from your guys' background you guys are very good 15:38 at that so when other people see the type of content that you guys like and
that you guys are creating they'll see and they're thinking, "Ah, it's too 15:44 much. There's no way I could develop that type of skill level." But you go across Tik Tok and you
go through my Instagram, you're going to start to see 15:51 a lot of creators that have very low effort content that are still winning. So, I think it's about understanding what is
your actual capacity. How much 15:57 effort can you put into it? And then if you can build a strategy around it, I think it's still early. And I think a lot of business owners, I
think a lot of 16:03 entrepreneurs, I think a lot of people in the service providing world are starting to recognize that. And I would 16:08 really encourage every single person if
they have any desire to build a personal brand that 2026 is not too late. It's Low-Effort Content That Still Wins 16:16 actually still early. Do you believe that someone can build
a strong personal brand around a lot of 16:21 lower quality or lower production value content? I believe that you have your own 16:30 stylistic choices of content. So I believe
there was a bodybuilder, his name was Sam Sulc, 16:36 right? So we're thinking about the YouTube side just iPhone, right? But if you then Exactly. [ __ ] audio. 16:42 Exactly. It's
really like But it's so good. So good. And if you look at the best It's the best content to watch. 16:47 A lot of even short form creators now are doing something quite similar.
They've always been this thought process 16:53 of you know what, like I know I can't compete with the high caliber in terms of production level, so I'm going to 16:58 stay in my
own lane. And so for me, I grew my first 3 million followers with a 17:03 shattered iPhone 12. a shattered iPhone 12 that had about 64 gigabytes of storage, I had nothing on there
and I 17:09 was still creating and still able to post and build an audience. So, I definitely think that even if you just use your phone, whatever's in your 17:14 pocket, um, and
you have loweffort content that's still strategic, like you're telling your story, you're tell talking about the right things. Yes, I 17:20 do think that you can build an audience
around it. So, with the back end of you actually batching stuff, what does that look How to Batch Content Without Burning Out 17:26 like? So, are you writing on Sunday and are you
shooting on Monday and Tuesday and then the rest of it? like what does your week look like to be able to have 17:33 this much output? Yes. So, I like to think of it as
pre-production, then you have production, post-production. So, I will 17:40 batch those stages. So, I will go through my script writing, let's say, for an entire Saturday
afternoon, and 17:46 then I'll go into my Tuesday mornings, and it's all about filming that day, and then my editing will be done on a 17:52 Thursday. But nowadays with everything
with business, it's really been really difficult to try and let's say have a 17:59 consistent approach to this. A lot of times it's kind of sporadic. But what I have noticed in the
past six months is 18:04 if I don't set boundaries with my team in regards to when I create content that they won't know how much time and energy 18:11 and effort actually goes
into it. So now my mornings since 2026 has been completely blocked up to actually create 18:17 content because that's like the driver of our business, right? Without organic
traffic, we're going to lose in the long run. So I think making time for that is 18:23 very important. If someone was going through a repositioning, you brought it up recently,
right? they're they're Repositioning Without Losing Your Audience 18:29 switching maybe niches or career paths. What advice do you have if they've built an audience around a
specific topic or 18:36 niche or message and now they're repositioning into something else? How would you recommend them make that 18:42 repositioning without it being like I'm
neglecting or doing something completely 18:47 different now than I was before? Cool. Can you give me an example of where they first started and where they 18:53 want to head to? I
can use myself as an example. I just quit being a freelance videographer and 19:00 my content, personal brand, a lot of that was built around photography and 19:05 videography
beforehand and now it's a lot more around the podcast, traveling, 19:11 um, building a personal brand and kind of what me and Brandon are doing with 505. 19:17 Cool. That's
beautiful. So, if I was to be working with you, firstly, I would say we can't just completely neglect the 19:23 audience that we've built up to this point in time. So, we can't
just rip the band-aid off right from the beginning and just all of a sudden completely 19:29 change our content because you're going to hurt obviously your existing reach.
Secondly, the thing that we have to do 19:35 is understanding that there's going to be a gradual process that you have to commit to. If you don't commit to it all the way through,
you're not going to see 19:41 the light at the end of the tunnel. Then ultimately, what we would do is start to on a weekly basis tell your story a lot 19:46 more often. So that
would be about three to four times in terms of short form content. And maybe if we're talking about once a week long form content, 19:52 maybe once per month is going to be
predicated around your story. And what we're really trying to get at is the why 19:57 behind the work that you have ultimately accomplished. So for you, if it's around videography
and photography, I would 20:03 want to understand why you even did that in your life. There's a part to it that's skill-based. Sure. But I mean, 20:08 you can scroll down, you find
another person that's really qualified as a videographer to share the same exact tips. But for you, it's like what drove 20:14 you? Is it having to do with your relationship? Is it
having to do with your purpose? Is it having to do how you were brought up? Is it the the 20:19 inspiration that you saw when you were younger? Talk to me about that. And if you
were to adhere content more towards that and on your story to do it almost 20:25 every single day, what would naturally happen is that a lot of the people in your audience right
now that are more ghost followers that are watching 20:31 content but not necessarily interacting, they'll come out. They'll start to be like, "Oh my goodness, I actually resonate
with that. I have the exact 20:37 same type of story as as you did." That type of content tends to build a lot more deeper connection to people. And 20:43 then if your why stays
the same, let's say when you're going to personal branding topics or what you guys doing with the podcast, you're like, I want to 20:48 do my podcast, but I still want to do it for
X, Y, and Z reason. There's a lot more connection. It's like the bridge between your content. So I always say if 20:54 you want to go from A to B, right? So it's like one topic to
another topic. You can't go from this to this 20:59 immediately and expect a good return. What you have to do is find your bridge gap. And your bridge gap is ultimately the story
that you're telling to help 21:06 people understand the why. So you can't go from what to what. It's what, why, then what. And that ultimately tends to be a really good process for
pivoting. 21:12 I like that. That is so so good. Yeah, that is game. Write that down. Get out your notebooks. You you talk about this The 4 Content Missions Every Post Should Have
21:19 in your videos how there's three different styles of storytelling, right? So, we have we have or three different types of content that you're putting 21:25 out. We have
storytelling, we have value, and we have reach. Talk to me about each of those different buckets and how it plays into the bigger scope 21:32 of what you do. Yes. I think when I
create short form content, it tends to be a much more oversimplification than the actual 21:38 process that I operate upon. And it's just simply because when I first started, if I
was to talk about everything I'm about to share with you 21:44 right now, it would be really difficult for me to digest that information. So, I think it's just understanding my
audience profile. So, yes, you can 21:50 bucket into those three, but let me buck it into something a little bit more in terms of our level and understanding of content. So, I
think of content having 21:56 one of four missions every single one of my posts. And there's attract, nurture, position, and convert. And I think that 22:02 ultimately is a better
way of looking at your content in terms of if you're already having an audience and how do you build upon that? So track content is 22:09 top of funnel, right? It's content that
you can maybe perhaps combine a viral format with and combine your own message to. So it's brand building, but it can 22:16 also be telling your story because we as human beings
universally we connect through struggle, right? So the ability 22:22 for you to lead with struggle in your storytelling content ultimately helps people understand why they should
champion you. So, for example, if you're 22:28 creating a piece of content and immediately you're flexing your fancy watch and you're flexing your nice lavish lifestyle and you're
wondering why nobody cares about you, it's it's 22:34 literally because nobody cares about you. But if you if you were to break that down a bit further and you were to 22:40 say,
"All right, well, you had a transformation in your life that had given you that success." Talk about the 22:46 before first before you introduce the successes. So, lead with pain,
lead with struggle. For me, it's the fact that we 22:51 came from a very struggling financial background. So, I want to do something for my family, but lead with something. Is it
heartbreak? Is it something in 22:56 terms of just a genuine desire to make something of yourself? Like start with that. So that tends to be track content, 23:02 top of funnel.
Then you have nurture content which is bringing your walls down and making people feel as though 23:07 you're a human being on the opposite side of the screen. So it's a lot of
existing struggles that you have. And there you don't need to showcase a 23:12 transformation. So for example, I posted a piece of content last week that was about how when I post
content, there's a 23:18 different reception from strangers and friends and family. Strangers often times celebrate your wins much more than 23:24 sometimes the people that you
care about. the most, right? So, I post that piece of content without necessarily transformation, but a lot of people are 23:29 thinking, "Oh my goodness, I feel the same way."
Like, I feel like I'm resonating with this person on a human level. Then thirdly, you have 23:35 positioning content, right? Content that actually positions you as someone of
credibility, of authority. So, brand elevating moments or if you're speaking 23:41 from an expert lens, right? And then ultimately, conversion content. So, when I look at all four
of those, right, 23:47 that's how I bucket my content from the way we operate today. And my always my formula for anyone starting to create 23:53 content, it should be the equation
of three, one, two, one. So three attract, one nurture, two position, and one 24:00 convert on a weekly basis for your reels. If you're posting seven times per week, and that is
ultimately a really good formula to continuously build trust 24:06 and bring awareness to your brand in the long term. I'm not leaving the room after the pod. I'm just going to be
writing. 24:12 Well, I was going to say I writing, dude. I was going to say I have to re-edit my post that's going out today. Perfect. It was just flexing with the 24:17
Lamborghini. It's the rental, dude. We got the rental. 24:26 Dude, just here in my garage. Um, for the all these books behind me. 24:31 Shout out if you know that. You know what's
better than a book is or what's better than a car? Knowledge. Knowledge. Knowledge. 24:37 Um, so funny. For the positioning. Yes. Hit me. Being seen as an authority figure. How to
Build Authority Without Being an Expert 24:42 Yes. What if someone feels like they don't have anything of credibility? How can they build 24:49 credibility if they're not yet in
the position where they've achieved success? That's a good question. 24:54 It's such a good question. Give him my fist bump. This is something that I get all the time. 24:59 That
was the bridge, by the way, of we're taking it's mental. You guys are already applying. Yeah, we're applying. 25:05 So, whenever I think about positioning content, you're totally
right. You have two types of people. And the way that I split up the perspective is either a 25:11 journey POV or an expert POV, right? And they still act as positioning content.
So, let me explain. If I was to be 25:18 creating positioning content, let's say from the expert lens of personal branding, I may say something along the 25:23 lines of, I've been
posting every single day for the last six years and here are the six things that I've learned, right? 25:28 But someone could also post a piece of content that says, I've been
posting every single day for the last six months 25:34 and I've lost 100 followers. Here's what you should not do. Right? That's journey POV. someone that hasn't necessarily 25:40
achieved the other end of it, but they're still sharing their experiences and from doing it from a perspective of 25:46 a peer, it's actually quite powerful. So, a lot of content
