pretty tough you know for the first like 3 to 6 months 2:39 but after a while the algorithm started picking me up and I just started ranking for certain keywords like what is 2:45
business development how to send a cold email and it was working right so because it was so hard to grow a 2:51 following once something started working I just double downed and
try to do all these helpful how-to tips and yeah it 2:57 did get me to my first 100,000 subscribers but the problem was that I was so niched into tech sales the only 3:02 thing I
couldn't really talk about is tech sales. So, when I made any kind of video of like this is my apartment or 3:08 this is how I'm living in Vietnam or anything that showed my
personality, it just wouldn't really get that many views. People would come for the how-to 3:15 tips, but they didn't really care about me. So, over time, I got so sick of 3:20
creating content around tech sales that I actually completely pivoted into NFTs when NFTs were a thing. And I started a 3:26 brand new YouTube channel talking about the NFT news.
Again, same strategy, going super niche. And yeah, I became 3:31 one of the top, you know, NFT influencers at the time. But again, when I got sick of creating that type of 3:37
content in that kind of subject, I just went back to my main channel and then made a hard pivot into more of the 3:43 personal branding, sales, and marketing kind of space, which
is what you're seeing now. So, I did it in three separate niches. And the problem that I 3:50 faced over the past 3 years was because I just talked about my topic over and over and
over, solving problems for my 3:56 niche, nobody really cared about me. So, my following didn't follow me to all 4:02 these different places. Yeah, maybe like a small percentage
did, but I wasn't really building a following that was, 4:07 you know, something that's going to last for a decade where I didn't have to keep switching niches and creating
different channels. And I do not recommend 4:13 creating a personal brand like this in this day and age. Now, to be fair, being niche did work and I generated seven 4:19 figures in
sales with my personal brand using these strategies, but had I went more broad and built a real brand, I 4:26 probably would have been way more successful. But at the time, I just
didn't know [music] how to do it. Now, you might be wondering, "Oh, okay. So, 4:32 if you're not going to go niche, let's go super broad." [music] But there's also problems with
being broad, too, because even before I started my sales 4:38 YouTube channel, I actually tried to do travel vlogging before and really just tried to be my authentic self. So, I
4:45 actually quit my job at the time, six figure tech sales job, moved to Thailand, and I was trying to figure it out, documenting the journey. [music] 4:51 And after putting up
maybe 20 videos in this space, I probably got like 50 subscribers. So nobody was watching, 4:57 nobody was subscribing, nobody cared. So when I tried to go broad and be my
authentic self, literally nobody cared. 5:03 And I wasn't willing to make 200 videos until someone did care cuz I needed to make money, right? Which is why I went 5:08 niche. So
being niche did allow me to make money faster, but it didn't allow me to build a brand. So, if there's pros 5:16 and cons to each of these, what am I going to do in 2026 to solve
this problem and build a personal brand the 5:22 right way that will allow me to essentially talk about anything I want, but at the same time be able to monetize 5:28 on that?
Going through this whole experience for the last like 6 years of my YouTube career, what I've realized 5:35 the way I should have done it from day one was just to build an
authentic [music] personal brand. So, I'll tell 5:41 you the biggest mistake I made was anchoring my identity into a topic. [music] So, before I was the tech sales 5:48 guy, then I
was the NFT guy. And now I'm teaching personal branding. But do I 5:53 want to be the personal brand guy? No. Because one day maybe personal brand as 5:59 a topic is not going to
be as cool anymore. Then what? Do I have to start over from zero? No. I'm not going to do 6:04 that. So, I found another workaround on how to build a brand that will last for a
lifetime [music] and allow you to 6:11 switch different subjects and niches and have people follow you because you are authentically you. Now, the perfect 6:16 example of this is
actually Kanye. Now, some of you guys might love him. Some of you hate him. Some of you say, "I love 6:22 the old Kanye and I love his old music." And some of you are like, "Nah,
these whack." But you cannot deny his fame and 6:28 his pull. There are millions of people around the world that will just buy anything he puts out. If you think about Kanye, he is
a brand, right? Yay is a 6:34 brand. If he does music, you have people that will listen. If he does a concert, people will buy a ticket. If he creates clothes, people will buy
that, too. He 6:41 has a record label. He signs people into his record label, right? He has a creative agency, DA, as well. So, he he 6:47 can start so many different businesses.
Some of you guys may know about them. Some of you never heard of him. Some of them are B TOC, some of them are B2B. He 6:54 can do anything because he has a cult following. So when
we think about our own personal brands, why don't we think 7:01 of ourselves as a brand? Just like how Kim Kardashian is a brand, Kanye West is 7:06 a brand, Donald Trump is a
brand, Elon Musk is a brand, Alexi is a brand. These are all brands, right? And a lot of 7:13 times when we're starting out, we often think of thinking of ourselves as like a
service provider or someone that just 7:18 solves problems rather than a brand that people just like and will buy anything you put out. And obviously I'm naming a 7:23 lot of big
names, but if we were to talk about the modern-day new personal brands are becoming popular, I would say Daniel 7:29 Dalen is definitely one of them. He pioneered the whole, you
know, POV kind of vlog style and a lot of people do 7:36 take inspiration from the way he is authentically himself. George Ein is another person that inspires a whole 7:41
generation of people who want to be creator athletes, right? Someone that runs a hundred million dollar business. 7:47 He's cool. He's fit. He's doing like marathons and all these
things. This is a brand. If he decides to sell clothes, 7:53 people will buy. He has a hydration company as well. And I'm sure no matter what he does, as long as it's related to
7:59 his brand philosophy and his mission, [music] people will buy. So if you're watching this, I would say, and you 8:06 know, for myself as well, my goal is to create my own
version of this. Yes, I don't want to copy them, but I want to 8:12 take inspiration to understand, hey, you know, how is it possible that they can build a brand where they can
sell anything, right? That's what I want for 8:18 myself, and that's probably what you want for yourself as well. Now, in order to do this, I've done a lot of deep 8:23 digging and
soulsearching to try to figure it out for myself because I was thinking, why is it that people watch my 8:29 videos sometimes and they don't come back? They come in, they watch a
helpful tip on top five, whatever, or how to 8:35 build a personal brand, and then they don't come back to watch my other videos. And it's because what I was 8:40 lacking was a
clear mission. So, to explain the concept, I want to play you a quick interview Kanye did and listen 8:46 very carefully to what he says. My music is the code to self-esteem. It's
the codes of who you are. If you're 8:52 a Kanye West fan, you're not a fan of me. You're a fan of yourself. You will believe in yourself. I'm just 8:59 the espresso. I'm just a
shot in the morning to get you going to make you 9:04 believe that you can overcome that situation that you're dealing with all the time. So, using what Kanye said, what is his
9:10 goal with his music, his clothes, his fashion, everything? Obviously, yeah, you want to make money, but there's a 9:15 mission, a reason why people connect with it so much
compared to buying any other products, right? Like, if you look 9:21 at Kanye's website and he's selling these clothes, like, you know, affordable, fast fashion, I wouldn't 9:26
call it, I don't know if it's fast fashion, but it's affordable, right? Are these, let's say, these socks going to 9:32 be, you know, significantly better than a Nike or Adidas,
right? Are these sweatpants going to be like, "Oh my god, 9:38 the design's so good, right? or like any of these products, you know, easily replicable by Zara or an H&M. So, why do
9:46 people buy Yeezy and I think it's like a billion-dollar company, right? And it's because of the mission. [music] Like 9:51 Kanye said, if you're a Kanye West fan, you are a
fan of yourself. He's just that espresso to get you up in the 9:57 morning, right? So, it's this vision to inspire others to become the best version of themselves. And because he
10:02 embodies it so much when there was a time where he was in a lot of controversy, people shutting down his 10:08 bank accounts, he's getting cancelled. And he proved to
everyone that no matter what people try to do, he will always 10:14 fight back. And even if he's wrong in the moment or maybe he reflects back and maybe he believes he made some
mistakes, 10:22 he's still going to fight for what he believes is right. And that's something whether you hate him or love him, you got to respect. So that mission is kind 10:28 of
like the story layer that's on top of all of his products. When you're buying one of his products or you're listening 10:34 to his music, you're not just consuming, you're you're
in a way becoming a better version of yourself or that's how he's 10:40 trying to make you feel in order for you to feel that connection. Now to explain how mission can relate to
anything you 10:47 create, whether it's a product or service, I have this little pyramid here, right? There's really three elements of building a mission. So the 10:53 first thing
is your mission, right? It's really just figuring out who are you helping and how are you going to transform their lives. What are the 10:59 things that you truly believe in that
you want to, you know, spread your philosophy, your beliefs, and your 11:04 values to other people. Then it goes into the method of, okay, you have a certain mission like let's say
it's to inspire others. What is your approach on 11:11 how you do it, right? What's your unique angle? Okay, now I'm going to give you some examples on that, but that'll make 11:17
it really tangible in a second. And finally, it's going to be momentum, which is some kind of action. Like what are we actually doing? What are the 11:23 products that we're
creating? What are the services that we're providing on a day-to-day basis that people can feel? So, if you think about Apple, one of 11:29 their biggest campaigns is think
different. There was a time where there was an advertising campaign about Mac versus PCs, right? So, it's like 11:35 creative versus like the boring suits. So, that's like their
mission, right? To empower the creative community, encourage people to think differently 11:41 about the world. Cool. If you think about their approach, everything they do is
trying to be aesthetic, beautiful, 11:48 um, simple, right? When it comes to technology, they were one of the first companies to like simplify everything 11:55 and also pay
attention to things like typography, making things look good on the screen 12:00 and obviously that played a big role with the app store and how modern websites are designed today,
right? And 12:05 when we think about the momentum, meaning what is the day-to-day executions of how do we actually feel 12:11 this? It's by the products we use, right? using an
iPhone, using an Apple 12:16 Apple Watch, using a a MacBook Air. You feel the difference because the core mission philosophy of these brands are 12:22 so different from all these
other competitors. Now, let's talk about using this example and finding another brand 12:28 that's not super big like Apple so you can see how you can use it for yourself. So, I'm
going to use Represent, which is 12:33 co-founded by George Heaton, the guy that I mentioned earlier. Right now, if you go on their website and you look very closely, it says right
here, "The 12:40 mission is simple. to build the best brand in the world. Now, I was I was listening to an interview with George 12:45 Heaton and he explained that philosophy. His
goal is to build, you know, the best brand in the world. Meaning, he's trying 12:51 to compete with Adidas, Nike, all these guys, right? But in order to be considered one of the
best brands in the 12:56 world, what do you need? You yourself need to become the best version of yourself as a leader so you can attract 13:01 the best talent. You have to develop
your talent to be top tier so they can compete against everybody else. Your 13:07 products also have to be super sick to be considered the best. Your supply chain, you know, your
customer service, 13:13 packaging, everything has to be the best if you want to claim that you're aspiring to be the best in the world. 13:19 Because he adopts that philosophy, it
bleeds into the culture. And the type of people he can attract into the business, 13:25 the athletes that they sponsor and collaborate with, they're pretty much like all top tier.
And that's how your mission determines everything you do, 13:32 who you work with, who your clients are, and ultimately what makes you different. Because let's be real here, right?
If 13:37 we're going on their website and we're like, "All right, I want to buy this black hoodie with, you know, team 247 on 13:43 it, okay? And I'm going to be, you know,
obviously it's a cool hoodie." You know, I think it cost uh $100 or $200, $165 13:51 right here. It's like, all right, cool. It's a hoodie. Now, if you go on Kanye's website, he's
got a hoodie, too, right? 13:56 He's got he got the Yeezy hoodie for $40. So, what's the difference between this hoodie and the other hoodie? They're both black hoodies, right? the
14:03 different price points, but the functionality is the same. So, why do we choose to buy one thing versus another 14:08 in like the most commoditized kind of product? [music]
So, when you're thinking about your services and when I 14:13 think about my services, I'm thinking, okay, if I'm helping people build a personal brand and monetize their skills
and there's other people that do the 14:19 same thing, why would they want to work with me versus anybody else? And it 14:25 comes back to the mission of why you do what you do and
the values that you have that people relate to. All right. So, 14:30 the question is, how are you supposed to find your own mission? Now, I think this is a personal journey where
there's no 14:36 like magic framework for you to follow to find it. You got to dig deep, but I'll share with you how I found my 14:41 personal mission and hopefully it can inspire
you and show you how you might be able to do it for yourself. Now, 14:47 after I graduated from college, I actually tried to start a business and completely failed. Didn't make any
money, right? Which is why I got a job. 14:53 And during this period where I was really lost, I didn't really know what to do. Um, I didn't know what kind of job I should get. I
didn't want to be 15:00 another gear in a machine working in corporate, right? So instead of jumping into a job right away, I actually spent 15:06 a couple months reading like I
think I read like a hundred books within a year because I was so hungry for knowledge 15:11 and I really wanted to figure out like what am I going to do with my life, right? And I
thought maybe I can find the answers in these books because 15:17 school didn't really teach me what I wanted to do. And so I read a bunch of books and one of the books that made
the 15:22 biggest impact on me was this one called the 4-hour work week. Essentially, it's about how to live a life of freedom, 15:29 build an online business, and do what you want
to do that makes you happy. And after I read that book, I came to two 15:34 big conclusions on how I want to anchor and base my entire life on. I think one of the greatest feelings
is to [music] 15:40 give love to another person, whether it's a friend, your family, your lover, whatever, and also receive love, right? 15:46 Because it's not just giving, you got
to get some back. Now, on the other end, where it's kind of more related to business is to inspire others. So 15:53 everything I do when it comes to making money and doing
business, I try to have the intent of inspiring. And part of the 15:59 reason for why I even started this YouTube channel to begin with was to share some of the lessons that I've
learned with other people who maybe it's 16:06 going to benefit, right? Um, in some ways helping the younger version of myself with the things that I struggled 16:12 with. And
hopefully you guys when you're watching this, you feel that that intention, right? And it's very different from just trying to create a 16:18 video to make money. It's more about
like why are we doing what we're doing? Um, and for me that internal drive is 16:25 really strong where like I will try to help my friends or go back to my high school and and and
speak to the kids and 16:31 I will do it for free with no cameras and I've done that many times um because I enjoy it genuinely, right? It allows 16:36 me to have a clear direction
in Northstar to where I want to take this whole personal brand, right? Because a 16:41 personal brand is not the topics you talk about. It's really an extension of who you are,
what you believe, what 16:48 values do you have. And I try to show that as much as possible in the content that I create for you guys. Hopefully, 16:53 my story of how I found my
mission can inspire you guys and help you think about what you can do. And so far, we got your mission. We got the vision of 16:59 what you want to do. We also understand that you
don't have to niche down into a specific topic, but anchor your entire 17:04 personal brand around your core mission, right? But the next step really is, okay, we have a vision on
where we want 17:11 to go, but what do you actually talk about in the videos that you create? It's similar to how Kanye has a mission 17:17 to help people become the best version
of themselves. But how does he choose mediums like music, fashion, and 17:23 business as vehicles to spread his message? And what are your primary vehicles that you're going to use
17:29 yourself? And I'm going to show you how to do this by building a movement. So, now that we understand the mission, 17:34 let's talk about building an actual movement, getting
people to actually follow you so that you can lead them in 17:39 the right direction and ultimately work with them to make money, right? So with building a movement, [music] what
you 17:45 need to understand that I have this equation for you. Movement equals your mission plus your community plus some 17:52 kind of action. If you have a vision of what you
want the world to be like and you get a community to also embody this 17:59 belief and you get them to actually do something, then you got a movement going on. So like I was saying
before, my 18:05 personal mission is to inspire others. But something I want to add to that is one of my core beliefs is that you can 18:11 have it all. Meaning you don't have to
sacrifice your health, your relationships in order to be successful 18:17 in business. Like you can be fit, [music] jacked. You know, for me, I train Muay Thai like five times a
week. 18:23 I have a beautiful relationship with my girlfriend [music] and you know, business is going well, right? And I'm trying to embody this vision. And 18:30 hopefully when
you see that and I kind of show clips of my actual life, especially if you follow me on Instagram where I post more personal things, like 18:37 you will feel that. You will see
that. And I'm trying to build a community of people who are like-minded, who want to 18:43 inspire others, who want to create content, build online businesses, and just live a high
quality life. So, this 18:48 is the mission. This is the vision. And how it works is [music] when you're building a movement, there's going to be 18:53 all these kind of people in
the world, right? Everyone comes from different walks of life. Some people will resonate 18:59 with what I'm talking about. Some people don't care. Some people say it's BS. Okay,
that's fair. Maybe it's not for you. That's fine. So, the key is you 19:05 want to find your tribe. You don't have to be liked by everybody. You got to find the people that connect
with you. 19:11 And at first, you know, when you're making your first YouTube videos or Instagram posts, like you're going to 19:17 get a couple of likes, a couple follows, and you
start building your movement one step at a time. Then once you get like, 19:22 you know, 9 10 people to follow you. Eventually, you keep going and then you get an army of people to
eventually follow you, right? When you get a,000 19:29 views on a video, that's a that's a stadium right there, right? If you get 10,000 views, like you that's huge, 19:35 right?
Like imagine speaking in public to 10,000 people. It's crazy. And then all these people, they all have the same 19:41 philosophies, the same beliefs, the same desires, [music]
right? For me, inspire 19:46 others, live a better life, that kind of stuff. And then they all kind of come together into this big movement. Okay. 19:53 Now, the interesting part
about a movement, and this is where we're going to get into the whole idea of niches, is 19:59 that it's not that this movement is connected by something so specific as a 20:06
niche, right? Notice how I didn't say, oh, like I'm targeting doctors in 20:12 California who have 10 employees and make one to two million in revenue. That's like like that's not
what we're 20:17 doing here. What we're doing is we're building a mass movement and trying to get as many people who believe in the 20:23 same philosophies to know who we are. And
when it comes to actually monetizing, what's going to happen is 20:28 when you have a movement and you are considered the leader of your movement, you're going to have your ideal
avatar 20:34 or your ideal client inside of this little bubble, right? Or this big bubble. And your ideal avatar is 20:40 somebody who believes in the same philosophies as you, but
also they're going to have money where they're able 20:46 and willing to spend. [music] And that's your clients. So to answer the question in the beginning which was should you go
20:54 very broad or should you go really niche when it comes to creating content and building an actual brand. My personal 21:00 realization after trying to go broad and then going
super niche finding success 21:06 and being super niche is for me and what I'm going to be doing for 2026 and 21:12 beyond is I'm trying to build a movement. Okay. I understand
that maybe 21:17 90% 99% maybe will never buy anything from me. But it's fine because if that 21:24 1% does buy, then we have a business. Especially if we're charging higher
ticket, right? We're only going to work with the people who have money to spend. 21:31 They want, you know, direct help working with working one-on-one with me. And that's okay.
You can build a really healthy business with that. If you think 21:37 about as percentages, right? So let's say, you know, you have a 100 people following you and 1% of people are
21:42 actually qualified to buy. Well, that's one person that's going to buy, right? 1%. If you had a,000 people following you and one person buys, that's 10 21:48 people buying.
Now, if you had a million followers and you converted 1% into a sale, that's 10,000 people. So, it's in 21:55 your best interest to get your movement as big as possible. So, who
are the best examples of this? Alexozi, 22:02 Gary Vee, anybody on Shark Tank, essentially Elon Musk, right? Like these 22:07 guys, what they figured out is they try to get as much
attention as possible. And the glue that puts everyone together 22:14 is their vision for what they want to do. So if you think about Elon Musk, what does he want to do? He wants
to like better humanity and like extend our 22:21 lifetime. So that's why he's, you know, trying to figure out how to live on Mars and there's going to be a bunch of people who are
interested in that as 22:27 well. So this is how you build a brand where you can take it anywhere you want because your movement is so big. You can 22:33 create different offers
inside. So let's go into a modern-day example of someone doing it, right? So Iman Gazi obviously 22:40 everybody knows him in the info space and something interesting about the way
he runs his businesses is he has 22:45 multiple businesses right so he has consulting.com which is for highlevel entrepreneurs who are already making a 22:50 bunch of money and
[music] he's going to help them build their business that's cool he also has monetize which is more 22:55 of an entrylevel info product helping beginners you know make their first
money online right so something for 23:01 beginners something for highle people right he also is a co-owner in Wap so he has equity in there then he also sells 23:07 sunglasses
Right? For the people who don't want to buy, you know, online courses, he's got $100 sunglasses for you to buy. So, the way I think about it 23:13 is if you build your movement as
big as possible, right? You can create all these different opportunities. Okay? So, 23:19 you might sell something, you know, less expensive like sunglasses. You might sell
something high ticket for like $20,000. 23:25 It really, you know, you're just finding different ways to monetize within your audience. So, the bigger your audience, 23:31 the more
people trust you, the more they believe in the stuff that you believe [music] in. Naturally, you can create 23:36 products for your audiences, right? The key I learned is not to
build your 23:41 personal brand around a specific topic because trends come and go. Like you might try to be create AI content today 23:47 and it's gone tomorrow, right? I did
NFTTS. It was popular at one point. Everybody was, you know, buying NFTs, 23:53 now nobody cares. What you want to do is build a personal brand. So, what I'm personally doing is
building a personal 23:59 brand where I can take my followers and really go in any direction that makes the most sense. So now that we 24:05 understand building a movement is
important, it allows you to talk about any topic you want. [music] You don't have to niche down because a bunch of 24:11 people know who you are and you can create different
products for different type of people within your audience. But 24:17 the next question is even if you have a mission and other people can literally 24:22 copy your mission as
well, right? So what what's going to make you special and stand out from everybody else? Now coming back to this idea of becoming the 24:28 best at what you do and keep redefining
what you do until that is true. I'm going to talk about how I'm personally 24:34 using my story, my journey to differentiate myself from anybody who also talks about the same
subjects as 24:41 me. And the key thing that I'm implementing more and more week by week is I'm trying to be so authentically me 24:48 that it's impossible to copy. Like you're
just going to have to be me in 24:53 order to beat me, if you get what I mean, right? And a lot of times it comes from again your beliefs. Like for me, 24:59 it's inspiring others.
So if someone were to copy me, do they also believe in the same thing? Are they also fit? Are 25:05 they also training Muai five times a week? Are they also disciplined? Like your
personality and who you are is a 25:11 big factor in differentiating yourself from everybody else. Like let's say if we're talking about, you know, 25:17 differentiation and we
look at Nike for example, 300 million followers, you know, very aesthetic, innovative 25:23 products. It's cool. You can see it appeals to a lot of people. Like it's good stuff.
Right? Now, let's take 25:29 another brand like AS6, okay? 1.4 million followers. And it's like, you can clearly see their social media guy 25:36 or girl. It's not doing that great
of a job. It's like a random feed. It's not cohesive. It's not that cool. It's kind 25:41 of Some of these pictures look like stock photo images. Like, it's not you can you can see
the difference, right? 25:48 And why why is it different? It's because of the vibe. It's the people they put, what they represent, what they believe in. like this is really 25:55
supporting the idea that you know you can be the best version of yourself and they provide the tools and equipment to 26:02 become help you become the best athlete right that's
like the feeling it creates whereas this one is just like selling product you know I don't want to be in 26:09 this category where everyone thinks I'm just selling stuff right like
I want to inspire people and they just naturally 26:14 want to buy my things so I'm a creator I create content teaching people stuff now 26:19 with AI I realized that anybody can
get any information online for free. They can go on chat GBT cla whatever tool 26:26 they want to use and get it instantly. They can get multiple books, put it all together and you
know ask chatgbt, hey, 26:32 review all these books and give me the answer. So why is it that somebody would work with me and why would they also work with you to learn something
or 26:39 coach or consult if they can get the information from like you know instantly 26:44 [music] for free and it's because of who you are like people just want to work with
you. They don't want to do it by themselves, right? They pay for 26:50 implementation not just for the knowledge. [music] sometimes they want to talk with another person to feel
that motivation to get them off their ass and 26:56 do something. It's like, yeah, like you can learn how to do, you know, training [music] exercises by yourself, but I'm 27:02
sure it's a very different feeling from having a personal trainer in order to be so authentically [music] you, so different that AI can't replace 27:10 you, other people can't copy
you. It's about finding your unique path. I'm going to use my unique path, and this is 27:16 how I essentially differentiate myself from everybody else. I tell my story in my
videos, which I've actually told in 27:21 this video, um, like low-key, I had a six-figure text job. Everything's going good. Then I said, "Okay, I'm ready to 27:28 start my
business. I quit my 9 to5, moved to Thailand, lost it all, tried all so many different businesses, 27:34 failed. Then I made some money back because I figured out how to make money
27:39 online. Then I had my biggest year where I made hundreds of thousands of dollars that year. Then I sacrificed everything 27:44 to get there. So I kind of went into like
depression and you know Yeah. So and you know it pretty much like killed 27:51 my relationship at the time and after those sacrifices even though I had the best financial year I
was depressed but 27:56 now got out of that and now we're doing really good and we're going up baby. And so people that follow me now they want 28:03 to know what's next. What's
the future for Patrick? [music] And when you think about like subscribers and followers, 28:08 right? The word follower is really interesting because if you see here, this is my
personal unique path that is 28:15 my own. Nobody else have walked this exact path as me. Maybe they've done something similar, but no one has done 28:22 the exact same path.
[music] So, because of these life experiences that I carve for myself and all the experiences I've 28:28 gained over the years, when I tell my story, I put into the content, there
are 28:33 going to be some people that relate to it. Some people also have a six-figure job that pays really well and they want 28:38 to quit. Some people made a lot of money and
then they broke up with their girlfriend and went into depression and 28:43 they're trying to find a way out. Some people try to start a business and they lost it all and they
don't know what to do. I've been through that. I get it. I 28:50 know the solution. I know how to get out of it. So, what would make me different from everyone else doing the same
thing I'm doing is the fact that I have my own 28:58 unique story just like you have your own unique story as well. you just probably don't realize that you can leverage it 29:05
in order to differentiate yourself, right? Because again, if people can get the same content, the same information 29:11 from AI, the thing that makes you different is not just
your skill set and being able to provide value, but it's 29:17 your mission and what you believe in, how you want to see the world improve, and your unique path that people are
29:24 interested in and they also want to follow. So, if you're interested in learning how to, let's say, build an 29:30 online business like I did, sell your skills online in the
form of online courses, coaching, and consulting, and 29:35 you want to also travel the world and live in places like Vietnam, like me, then you might say, "Damn, Patrick has 29:41
the life that maybe I want to live, maybe I should watch more of his content so I could be more like him." Right? That's the idea. I'm not saying I'm the 29:49 smartest. I'm not
saying I'm the most successful. I'm not saying I'm the most handsome. I'm not saying I'm the most ripped. there are going to be someone 29:55 who's better than me and all these
things, but it's this unique combination in which I put the information and my 30:00 packaging together that makes me different. All right, so I just gave you the exact framework
that you can use to 30:06 authentically build a personal brand and really be one of one. And if you follow these strategies very carefully, you 30:11 should be able to build a
cult-like personal brand and basically talk about anything you want and still be able to 30:17 monetize. Now, having a road map is one thing, but actually doing the work,
implementing these strategies, making sure that you're actually using your 30:23 authentic voice and all the execution that comes behind it is going to be a whole separate issue.
Which is actually 30:28 why I created this community called Founder X, where I essentially help people build their personal brands and monetize. We have people who literally 30:35
have 9 toive jobs making a side income. We got other people that quit their 9 toive jobs to go allin on their personal 30:41 brands. So, if you're starting from zero, this is
something I highly recommend you check out if you want to be surrounded in a community of 30:47 like-minded individuals. Now, if you do want to join this community or maybe just
learn a little bit more about it, I actually put a link in the description 30:54 to my calendar where I can talk with you [music] directly, map out your growth plan to figure out
exactly what your personal brand could look like and 31:00 exactly what [music] you want to sell and how you want to make money online. So, if that sounds interesting to you, I
encourage you to really book a time on 31:05 my calendar and we'll have a conversation. And if you love this video on building the fundamentals of your personal brand, you're going
to like this next one where we're going to go 31:12 into exactly what you should do once you have the vision of what you want your personal brand to look like. And so with 31:17
that said, I'll see you in the next All From the series 0:00 This is Yvonne. And just eight months ago, she was trapped in a six-figure tech sales job that looked successful on
0:06 the outside, but in fact, it felt like a cage. Every morning, she wake up dreading another day building another 0:14 person's dream. And that's when she found my videos about
how I escaped my 9 to5 to build a [music] business in 0:19 Vietnam. And she thought, "Hey, maybe I can do that, too." And so, she booked a call directly with me. We talked on the
0:25 phone and she decided to join the FounderX program. Now, one month into joining [music] the program and working 0:31 directly with me, she signed her first high ticket clients
for thousands of dollars, helping a person [music] break 0:37 into tech sales. 2 months after joining the program, she quit her full-time job to go allin on her personal brand and
to 0:43 build her coaching business. And 6 months after joining the program, she was making 7K per month while being 0:49 [music] able to work online in places like Barcelona,
Thailand, China, and Japan. And I've actually documented 0:56 every single step, every call we had, every client, [music] every breakthrough to show you how we were able to 1:02
practically change her [music] life and show you how you can do it, too. And if you ever wondered whether or not you can 1:08 do the same thing, I want you to watch [music] very
closely because this is a story of what happens when an ordinary 1:14 person decides to take a bet on themselves. Let's go ahead and get into Yvon's story. So, like I mentioned
1:21 before, when me and Yvon first met, she didn't really know anything about this whole internet marketing world, right? 1:28 And she knew something was wrong on the inside where
she was tired of building another person's business and she 1:33 thought, why isn't she building her own thing? Right? Back then, I was actually making pretty good money. I was
able to save some. But 1:40 I still feel like deep down like I was like, if I can like do settings, build pipeline for a company, like I can do it 1:47 for for myself, too. And
then also like looking at at your story you know like 1:52 you're in US and then like when you start your business you're able to like travel everywhere like live where you 1:59
want right and that's what I wanted to I guess like one of the core reason is 2:04 like I was in Canada and I want to explore other places. I want 2:10 to have the flexibility to
do that. More and more people today are building their brands online and they're making 2:15 money without having to work at a big company. So when she booked the call with me,
right, essentially what we talked about was how exactly was she 2:23 supposed to build an online business if she had no idea what to sell, didn't know what skills to be using to
build 2:30 this online business, and how is she going to even build a personal brand? Because at [music] this point, okay, she 2:36 didn't even have one year of tech sales
experience at her job. [music] So she was thinking like kind of have having 2:42 that imposttor syndrome like how can you be teaching other people and coaching if you barely just
started your working 2:49 experience. The first time we met, like during the first conversation I had with you, you were telling me like, yeah, 2:55 like other people want jobs
like yours. Like I was a data analyst, right? Like some super nerdy data job. Like it's 3:02 [clears throat] not client facing at all, but if I can make the transition go all the
way to like cold call people 3:08 like making good money in tech sales, like I can do it and they can do it too, 3:13 right? So yeah, I think that's how I came to that conclusion.
And so on these calls, we basically mapped out a plan. 3:19 [music] And I told her, "Look, it's okay that you don't know what to sell. It's okay you don't know who to sell to. It's
3:25 okay if you've never made content before and you have no following. Everybody starts from zero. And so my job if you 3:31 decide to join the program, right? This was on the
