talk to you all guys. Well, that's one of our the talk we're 28:22 giving at Collins Ash and I are giving are a lot about that. It's like it's we're actually it's kind of like a
meta talk. It's almost like all right, here's kind of what monoculture looks like and 28:28 then here's what uh what we think how con should have pivoted or should be pivoting now
and how people are approaching that. You know, one of the 28:34 interesting ones on speaking of con is uh is I was looking at all the events like who's doing an interesting event
and it's like very limited and but one 28:41 of the most interesting was LinkedIn which is uh a rare I'm not being out here like LinkedIn's marketing is amazing but their event
there today on 28:48 LinkedIn uh look at Ultravaluable Network a different thing but they uh they have an 28:53 event there where they are teaching professionals to make content
and they have a studio you can book time and they will film and record you that is their 28:58 con presence and I was like okay now we're cooking now they're turning all those
people all these ad professionals. Well, maybe 29:04 they'll make their first video with LinkedIn produced. They get that network effect of it and they're actually like 29:09
practicing what they preach. The video is in there. And I was like, it was interesting to me. I was like, LinkedIn has has a winner, you know? That was was LinkedIn 29:15 cool.
It's amazing what you can see in people that you can connect with on LinkedIn. It's just off of DM, off of posting 29:21 content, like the guy that we just had on, he's saying
there's a billion users and 1% of them are making stuff, which 29:27 is insane. Well, LinkedIn is bottom of funnel. That's why I like what a lot of creators don't realize is like,
okay, my content doesn't do huge views on LinkedIn. 29:33 Couple thousand, honestly, like on most things, but it's a people don't feel comfortable DMing you on Instagram. All 29:38
these brand deals, stuff that I've gotten is people, they will DM you on LinkedIn, no problem. SVP of a company, CMO, they're not DMing me from their 29:44 personal Instagram with
their kids on it to be like, "Hey, let's do the other." And so, I think it's just like connecting those dots and it's a smaller 29:49 network of it. I think brands underestimated,
too. When I was um I ran marketing at this company called Jelb Blaster before I started being a 29:55 full-time creator and we had a guy who worked there named Steve. He's at Pudgy
Penguins now, but his whole LinkedIn was just on I'm just going to post all the 30:01 awesome content that we make as a company and all our influencers. I'm just going to post on
LinkedIn because I work here and I'm stoked about it. And 30:07 it was a such a huge industry presence for us that this guy was just reposting our consumer content as our like head
of 30:12 partnerships or whatever that everyone would know B2B people like buyers at our retail, people at trade shows would know 30:17 more about our content than than like than
anyone else because he's putting out this constant stream and LinkedIn is 30:22 tight like that versus they're never seeing the consumer stuff. They don't follow the brand. And so
I actually think it's a really underutilized channel for brand marketing as well from Creating content while working a 9-5 30:29 a person releasing the content. How long did it
take you like during the time when you were head of marketing at 30:34 this company to then actually leaving? Were you cranking out content while you were there on your own
personal page? Like what was that like? Cuz I think a 30:40 lot of people that might be listening this right now or like maybe they're at a job and they're doing this stuff.
They're moonlighting on the side doing 30:46 it at night trying to create content. They want to eventually make it full-time. Like what advice do you have for those people? 30:51
So I was doing it in this position to understand it. I was had gone back the previous company I worked at before that I was uh like the president of it. I was 30:57 more way more
operational. I was dealing with distribution and trucking and retail and I wasn't in marketing as deep and I was like cool now I'm back in a 31:03 marketing job and I'm like I
don't understand organic content. So I started making Tik Tok to to like basically 31:09 understand how Tik Tok works and it went better than expected. Um but then yeah so then it
was like cool I'm making Tik Toks doesn't really 31:14 matter. I make one a night then it's like okay now there's some money and like no one really noticed or cared or like was
what it was but then it started 31:21 to be like uh and then it started to be a huge bonus because like started to get pretty large and then I'd be in meetings like retail meetings
and they'd be like 31:27 oh these other three people are here because they like your TikTok and I'd be like oh this is now like a tool and I think people at my company saw very
31:32 quickly being like oh this is a tool like put him in front of it introduce him as the influencer whatever and then it became when it was like when like the 31:38 real money
came when it was like cool I actually make more casually off this than I do an executive position was when it became a conflict you know I I still 31:45 like I went back to work
like partially uh recently just cuz I need that structure. I'm like 280D to not have 31:51 like a core thing that gets me up at like 7 in the morning and like has me doing
objectives. Uh so I kind of needed 31:56 that. So I never was was the goal. But then the fiscal incentives are so misaligned because you can make so much money from content versus
jobs 32:02 especially as a creative that like it's really it's an interesting time to be in. What was that first brand deal that you got? Oren’s first brand deal 32:07 Timberland.
Yeah. I I have huge love for Timberland. I would love for them to ever first check $1,500. 32:12 Wow. It was uh and I was like Timber this is sick and like out of the blue wasn't
expected and then from there it 32:17 was like a bunch of B2B SAS um and uh but yeah I was like this is this is awesome. So you started making content just cuz 32:24 you wanted to
understand it more not even with the mindset of I want to become a full-time creator. Yeah. Not at all. And I and I tried a 32:30 few different things. I was making um like I
didn't drink at the making like non-alcoholic beverage content. I was like cool. Can I review that? I tried a 32:36 few stuff but my whole thing was I'm not going to stop until I
get a video with 5,000 views. And I made like 50 before 32:43 we got to there. But then the first one that got 5,000 it was like the next one was 10K and then we're off to the
races. Um but I I remember like I was making You just gotta be hotter 32:50 videos and they were kind of bad and I had uh I got some advice from it was like a a girl I knew from
high school who was like hey she at the time she 32:57 said you need to slow down like you need to be hotter and you need to like talk that talk. And so you can actually literally
watch you can like go all the 33:02 way back and you'll see when I like don't talk the speed I am now like sped back up since then. But it's like me and I'm in like I'm in like a
tank top and 33:09 I'm like talking [ __ ] about like luggage or whatever and you could like watch the transition and everyone was like immediately I gravitated to it and I was
33:15 like man like sometimes just taking that advice from someone like she'd have been on TikTok forever and I was like oh you know oh I just got to be hot 33:23 she was just like
hey look good a lot of people don't care about their appearance and I was just like I wasn't lit well I wasn't whatever and she's just like like 33:28 I was decently cut at the
time and it was just like uh not like yeah now it's like now it's all crazy now people are all like yeah 33:34 everyone like looks amazing but Dude, we joke around and we're just
like, "Oh, so we just got to go to Bali, become tan, 33:40 and get ripped and then we're good." And then you're good. Just pop the puppies, brother. Then we're chilling, dude. What
is it? Like the What is it? 33:45 But it's caring is more caring more than being like super honest. Like that's the other cuz a lot of people just don't I'm like, "Yo, like if you
look sloppy, 33:52 unless that's what you're going for, people don't relate to. People want to relate to people they aspire to be like for the majority of it, you know?" 33:58
Yeah. We only look at hot people on on that kind of job. But I do feel like generationally now Fitness talk 34:04 everyone is like way more they understand what it takes. I look
back when I was in like high school and [ __ ] and it was like carbo loading 34:09 because we didn't know about social like that though. We didn't get bullied as much online dude.
Also, we didn't know what to do. If someone had told me when I was 16, eat 34:16 200 gram of protein every day and your whole life will be fine. Then you're concerned with nothing
else. My entire life would be different. You know what 34:21 I'm saying? I remember you you find like fitness YouTube in high school and it was was off to the races, dude. I was
like this 34:27 is all I need. You just got to follow this guy. He gives out all the advice for free. We were worried about taking creatine in high school. Dude, I was ripping it,
dog. We I gradu 34:34 No, when I graduated, I saw one YouTube all I needed. Didn't research it at all. I started bodybuilding.com bodybuilding.com. I'm 34:40 like, "Yep, let me
That is so funny. You just opened up a crazy memory." Bodybuilding.com. I literally ordered creatine. I remember this one kid's mom, 34:46 I go over and I had my little backpack on
to go to the gym and I just had every supplement. BCAS, creatine, protein 34:52 powder, needles. Like, I had it all. I had this stack and I go over and his mom's like, "What's that
in your bag?" like acting like it was like a class one 34:57 drug, dude. She's like, "Is that is that creatine?" Diego will not be will not be partaking in the creatine that you
guys 35:02 are having. I'm like, then I'm like I have watched one video. I'm like, "You don't understand. It's the most researched drug." 35:08 You haven't done your research. You
haven't done your research. We're going to fix Alzheimer's here. Dude, I I remember talking to a guy 35:14 named Adam. He was a few years older than me and he was really good at
baseball. And I was like, "What's like the secret?" He goes, "Dude, I I took 35:20 some creatine." And he goes, "But then I got off it and I I like uh became slower and I was like,
I can't take that." 35:26 And so I got scared of taking creatine. That was that's what it was. That's the level of education we had now versus these these muaxing kids out here
like 35:34 just have the whole recipe, you know? So God's higher. So funny. How dialed was your positioning as a Dialing in positioning 35:40 creator when you first started? Were
you just like, I'm going to go all in on branding? No. Zero. I like zero dialed. I was like 35:45 non-alcoholic beverages. Then I was like, cool, I'm going to talk about consumer
packaged goods. No one gives a [ __ ] And then it was like cool. I'm 35:50 like, and I started like really talking about like luxury, like nice stuff, like expensive stuff. And
then it moved a bit 35:56 into marketing. And then now it's like I always have like four pillars and I kind of like try to work around that, but it's like ever shifting. 36:01 Talk
to us about the pillars. Yeah. I just like to have like I plan my content like roughly like by month. I'll be like, "Here's what I'm trying to 36:07 focus on this month." And what
I've noticed is I'll have like topics that resonate, but they go away. That's why the monthly is important. So like packaging used to be a pillar. I used to 36:13 talk about
packaging a lot and it would always hit and I had a couple different approaches to it, but then it just stopped being it's like not in the 36:18 zeitgeist. wasn't interesting like
removed it as a pillar versus like right now um like travel content is like a 36:23 pillar so I'm always posting travel content every week and like like a unique approach to it
like design travel um and then I have like product versus 36:29 brand is like a pillar and that's another one too right where like I didn't do it for like six months was getting me
the wrong audience but now it's like I need the right top of funnel 36:35 so I bring it back so I kind of just have this list of topics probably like 14 15 things they're like what
are the four I'm really concentrated on like 36:42 next month I'm I'm like bringing luxury back I haven't made luxury content for a minute and it's going to be like luxury month
kind of at least in my head I'm 36:47 not going to like say that publicly, but it's like, all right, how is that like a recurring through line through this? But I feel like that's
how you keep it 36:53 interesting and keep it right is like, okay, is this working? Does it go? Is it tired? Bring it back. And I'm usually trying to be like, two things I know are
36:59 winning. One thing I know is kind of on its way out, and then one thing new I'm trying. Man, I've never heard it explained like 37:04 that. I've always heard the four pillars
when I diversify your content a little bit, but I love the not being scared to 37:11 almost reposition yourself monthtomonth. Yeah, because you have to because you'll see it like
if I was still making packaging content, it would be just it 37:17 would be dead, right? Um and that's why the travel was so big where I was just like cool again because also
what's the pillar? What can other people not do? 37:23 What's going to get replicated? You know, there's a lot of this like and I had carousels in there for a minute. I was like
cool like carousels to push to 37:28 my YouTube about the videos to do whatever. And it was great and like they still work now, but then that's me in my back of my head being like
this 37:33 content's too normal. when it comes to not a personal brand but a traditional brand, how important is positioning and 37:40 what tactics can brands use to dial in the
positioning more? Yeah. So, I think it's basically the same thing. I always look at like the 37:45 goal number one goal for brands, get one type of content that works and and that
can be also organic or ads, right? Like 37:51 it's just like find a thing that has some level of scalability. Like that is your number before you think about anything else like get
the one thing and 37:57 then it's like I would it's the same approach of like all right, how do I have these? And one of the biggest things I think brands need to think about is
people consume content in 38:03 different ways. Like I'm a green screen creator is how I started, right? But not everyone I don't consume any green 38:09 screen content. I can't
listen I can't watch something for more than like 9 seconds. I don't have the right disposition. So I I can't even make it 38:15 through my own videos or even like my friends
videos. So but that to me is I'm a huge consumer. I have a bunch of expendable income. I'm in my target 38:21 demographic. But I watch 11second videos with captions on them, right?
And I scroll a lot of carousels. Like it's a 38:27 different like approach to it. And so I think brands need to think about that same thing. Your target consumer consumes multiple
types of different 38:33 content. So, I encourage them to have like a bridge of those formats. Like there's a lot of people that only consume carousels. So, if you're a brand 38:38
um like what I've said about carousels is less relevant for a brand because I feel like that your job is to get views, approach um your consumer in different 38:45 ways. So, like
carousel should be a pillar. Same thing with uh like how you're looking at content that's like a 38:50 vlog or a storytelling versus a person talking and they're both valued in
their own way, but it's like that combination of like ideas you're getting across and 38:56 the formats you're doing it in. A brand I really like, I feel like is a good strategy
for people to look at is this brand PCL. They're like a UK men's wear 39:02 brand. What I like about them is they have founder content, but he's like one of every 10 videos. And
he'll do like a 39:07 conversation and sit down, but it's recurring. You know him. There's this educational component. Then they'll have their more traditional lookbooks. Then
39:12 they'll have kind of like their vlogs and skits. Then they'll have their more standard like unboxing showcases, whatever it is. But you get that 39:18 information about the
product. You get the behind the brand. It's all kind of symbiotic into this big thing. I think 39:23 brands need to find their multiple styles and their pieces and be kind of
testing their way through it and testing 39:29 every organic piece of content as an ad. That's like the thing I see people do the least that's probably the most valuable is like if
you're not running 39:35 every single thing that's on your feed that makes any level of sense and just putting it in your ASC campaign for meta 39:40 or like running it through
Spark if it hits on TikTok to just see if it hits your same rowass goals as your other stuff like you're there's just there's How to crush facebook ads 39:46 money waiting there to
be made. Gosh. Wow. It is so interesting because I think even when I talk like my core 39:52 business is going to brands helping them with their social and either we make it or we
just consult them with it and it's 39:58 mind-boggling at how they're just holding on to these dollars from other ways that they've traditionally marketed 40:03 and I'm like no no
no I'm telling you guys like this is what they're doing and they're a lot of the feedback that I get from them which is crazy and you just 40:09 said it is they're putting paid
behind [ __ ] that they don't know works. So they're just like they're just like oh 40:14 yeah we ran five paid ads. I go did you post them first? No. Why? And also, did you run
what you already 40:20 posted that you already have good metrics on and just and just test? And it's like mindboggling. And I only discovered that I was using 40:26 um it's funny.
I had I had a sponsorship deal with this company called Particle. It's like a research software for for branding. And I was looking at I'm going 40:33 through and I'm looking at
you can look at any brand sales. And this is when I was launching some of my like my little like little brand I have where I sell 40:39 like clothes and stuff like related to my
content. And I was looking at Represent Buxon, a bunch of these other brands. I like Cole Bucks because like 40:44 Represent's a big dog. You can't learn anything from that. Um,
but Cole Bucks's like kind of in that middle position. And I was looking at I'm like, "Oh, 40:49 they're running every single I'm in their ads manager. I'm in the other. They're
running every single organic post as an ad." And I was like, I hadn't 40:55 even thought of it like that. You know, we'd run occasional we'd put some in there in in jailb 41:04
it's going to either spend or not. And you're going to see rorowass or not. It's going to take like a couple hundred bucks to figure anything out. And then you get so many winners.
And the 41:10 outsized winners on social iss. 6.5 rorowass on at least for a few weeks. And like that's it's just such a Creative Volume 41:17 massive hack and you can watch is why
some of these clothing brands have crushed it, dude. So do you find do you find that 41:23 with these brands that you start working with when they get these like a bigger winner
like a 4x or a 6x it only lasts 41:29 for certain it doesn't nothing creative scales forever. It's a creative volume game like right now. I do this even small like 41:35 uh like
even for like even for my valuables brand like I run a lot of this is creative. I'll have a grip his creative for a few weeks 41:40 and but if you were putting in hella creative or
variations maybe it's better but like everything is a volume game for everyone I work with right now. Uh the 41:47 core brand I've worked with for a long time and in clothing it's
a women's wear brand. We run the same playbook all the time but it's a shitload of creative. 41:52 It's like every time we release a collection it's a uh lifestyle carousel for the
collection. It's a white background carousel for the collection. 41:58 It's a reel that shows fit on different body types and we run and then there's like a lookbook. Basically,
it's four pieces for every item in the collection 42:04 and but it gives us just a ton of content to test. I I noticed that Minted does this really well where like they're coming
out with 42:10 some like say let's say they're coming out with a collection it's like little teaser the tag little teaser the fabric show it on a body cool video drop and 42:16
it's like it's it's a playbook that a lot of these brands are following and it it's working. If you run that same playbook it works 42:21 on organic and all those are also ad
assets. all of a sudden you just like boom save money on your creative budget and then also you're getting that validation 42:27 you already know and also makes your social be more
popping, right? It's it's a it's kind of a win-win across the board and like Tik Tok's an even better 42:33 version of this because you can track the revenue better with a Tik Tok
shop. You've also talked about how important like BTS content is. I remember you I The photoshoot playbook 42:40 watched a video of you talking about like the photo shoot playbook
for for fashion brands. Can you talk about how 42:46 to execute BTS content or basically how to how to execute uh maybe a photo shoot 42:51 where you're like a a fashion brand is
dropping a new collection. What is all the types of content that they should be 42:57 getting like on top of just the Yeah, just the visual. Well, I think the BTS one's interesting
where most people 43:02 fail at BTS is you'll go into the single, oh, we shot BTS this shoot. It's like, okay, great. We have, you know, two hours or 300 gigs of BTS, 43:11 but
there's no plan. So, the number one thing is just the plan. And so usually it's like everything is references now, right? Everything's briefs. And it's 43:16 like you go into that
shoot, it's like, "Okay, what's the BTS plan?" And we're not just shooting BTS, someone's responsible. It's like Julie is shooting 43:23 the BTS and here's the four reference
videos we have. One of the BTS's is just like a sizzle reel and to get that hot 43:28 me to be able to do these two techniques or transitions like and so her job is to capture
stuff for that. The other thing is a before the shot after the shot. 43:34 Well, the more compelling the before is, if we can make it funny or an interesting angle, the better it
is. So it's like your BTS needs a shot list 43:40 basically at least for the hooks or the key parts as much as the rest of your stuff does. But you've identified that I'm doing
this type of BTS or that. And 43:46 so like all the people that really do this, all the like creative strategists are like they have their bookmarks folder or their notion doc or
their 43:52 foreplay board or whatever it is with each of these categories. Like this is the BTS reference, this is my launch, 43:57 this is my teaser and you just go through and
you just pull those for that shoot. But I think the biggest BTS thing is to plan it or you end up at that drive and someone's going to figure it 44:03 out and no one has a plan and
like that's the cursed state to be in. Yeah. Because literally you finish the shoot and you just have all this stuff. Yeah. All this BTS and that's why it 44:09 never comes out.
Everyone's like, "Well, we we have BTS. We just don't use it." I'm like, "Yeah, because there was no plan." And the plan is either like the best ones are before the shot, after the
44:14 shot. So, if you can be like, "Hey, you have show some crazy thing and make people wait and then you show them the result." Like that's a that's a surefire 44:20 format that
works. And then some kind of sizzle reel where you get to tease it is like another one. Uh and then I like 44:25 I've been doing this with my events where you do like a carousel
and uh there's a brand called Sunny's Face was the first one I saw do this. Philippines 44:31 like cosmetic brand, but they'd be like the location, the models, the talent, the
product, and they like have a slide 44:36 for each of them. I was like, that's a fun format to do BTS in. So, I've been doing that for events now. Brilliant. 44:42 It's also
interesting, too, because I remember back in the day, especially when we get hired to just go like cover an event. It would be a recap video, and 44:49 it's such a waste of money
to just do a recap video nowadays. It's like, dude, we should be doing iPhone. We should be posting live during the event. We should 44:56 be doing a photo carousel going live
during the event. we should be teasing if there's an important speaker there and brands just are not doing that. 45:02 We'll go back to the brand world. It's like, okay, is there a
makeup artist there? Do they have social media? Do you want to shoot them doing the look for that and give them a piece that then 45:08 goes on their social on your shoot? I'm
like, you can be when you really begin to plan out, it's like you can get so sick. Yeah. God. And you just have so many 45:14 more pieces and the money goes so much further and
makes so much more sense for them. Yeah. Well, I look at what's like Wimbledon posted a thousand times during 45:20 that one Wimbledon. Like we've all seen that. It's just like and
you when you look at how did they really do it a thousand times? It's like yeah, they had 45:25 highlevel art directive photography of everything happening. They had the actual
event coverage. They had behind the scenes. They had here's the drink 45:31 recipe. Here's whatever. Like you can really go down into it. If you have a media team that's savvy
enough, it's all just creating the shot list. The Laker’s content playbook 45:36 Bro, I remember during during a Lakers game, right, we would post I remember one of the games that
we had. We were It 45:42 was like one of the craziest games. We posted 56 or 57 times in an evening and 45:47 every single thing was humming and it's like you have photo the design
team's in the back. They're cranking [ __ ] out. 45:53 Photo sending [ __ ] to design to add into their little carousels. They're doing a carousel at halftime. We're doing a 45:58
video every damn minute. I'm sending a video from the court. You have another guy who's up in the rafter sending a 46:03 video from the court. You have a social manager who's
gathering [ __ ] on the phone. And then you have a QB who's asking for stuff. So, it's like, bro, we 46:10 are having all these different mouths are being fed and she's like, I
want this for Facebook or I want this for Twitter. I want this for Instagram. 46:15 That's a great Tik Tok. Or it's like LeBron just went and signed this little girl's shoe. That's
a Tik Tok. And it's like, dude, when you think about you 46:20 have a team of five, six, seven people that are all dialed that are all on the same page of like, we're feeding this
beast today. It It's an unbelievable 46:27 thing when you see. It feels good when you're doing it. I think what's funny is teams will have, oh, we have five or seven people on the
ground, but they're like holding a light 46:33 doing they're not they don't operate like like that's the difference. If you can get those operators or coach your 46:38 team to be
operators at that level, the amount of content and stuff that you can get is amazing. And to your point, if some of it starts hitting, the rest of 46:44 it starts hitting. And so
like don't be afraid to post that 50 times. We're actually talking about this uh Ash and I next week for con where I was like cool, 46:50 like do I try like maybe I try to post
like 30 times next week and like what does that look like and would that work 46:55 and kind of debating the merits of it or not or when do you evaluate it? But I think that's like
important for creators. We're I think Why Oren uses Notion 47:00 we're going to attempt it. I feel like you you guys would kill especially because it is such a culturally relevant
moment to be there and to see whatever 47:07 is happening and you're halfway around the world most people can't can't even buy that flight and it's just prep and so like we have
47:12 like we got videographers with us there's editors editing support there's overnight editing support there's design support so now it's just like okay what 47:18 concepts do
you have like everything comes back to it's so funny like I have a I like relentlessly bookmark catalog 47:23 like I'm I have everything tagged I have like this massive notion
database this is a notion that you work in do you 47:28 love notion uh notion's great I It's it's it's like there's you can whatever platform you 47:33 pick is probably fine. I
love notion for the way I think. I know I don't think like everybody else. The biggest thing about notion is that you can embed the 47:40 Tik Toks and the Instagrams and stuff like
uh is such such a big difference. I don't have to click. It's like cool. 47:45 It's a I use toggles all the time. It's like toggle. I have these things embedded. And so it's not
like I have a list in a spreadsheet. I got to go click and be like what was that reference 47:51 about again? It's like no no here's the visual. I watch it in app or in doc. Oh you
can just watch it right there. 47:56 And so that was to me it's like that's nothing else matters. You can use any database platform is whatever but the fact I can just watch it all
in the 48:02 toggle is like is gamechanging and but then it's just now it's just creating these lists being like all right like I have my uh I always look at launches 48:09 like
tease of launch unveil of launch after education. So I have like these four big docs for that but it's like 48:14 cool I need to go pull 15 things through that what applies to the
content like how do I have so when you're somewhere I'm at this event okay what is the idea 48:20 that we can run with cuz that's the hardest part is you're in this thing like what
is the content idea how do you drill down to it 48:25 how dude who can hold my hand with notion I want to be a notion guy we both want to be notion guys ide 48:30 university guy
for also on that I like it's at least for me it was like very intuitive he's going to be like it's stupid proof 48:35 brother yeah it is really dumbass proof dog well now with AI
too is like make me a table that does you know 48:41 and It has an AI thing. Dude, just type into chat. Say, hey, just say, "Teach me how to notion dog." Don’t copy the biggest
brands if you want to win 48:47 Teach me how to not God, I want to be a notion guy. Okay. You brought up represent and you said that's not a good example because they're a big dog
and you can't really 48:53 learn stuff from them. Yeah. I think everyone always wants to ask, "Oh, I'm going to be like Beta. I'm going to be like represent." Like 48:58 represent
is a cultural force from with like a decade behind them. And if you want to go craft your strategy after 49:03 them, like good luck. Like that's I like you need to learn from
people that are rising right now. And you look at like represent has every tool, right? like 49:10 amazing team, great design, great product, their own products, their own stores,
founder and founder brother, 49:16 they're both founders, right? Who like both have their own social media, everyone looks good, dialed in team, you can't operate like that to
start, right? 49:23 It's if you are in a mid-tier, if you are like, hey, our brand is doing 10 12 million a year, how do we that's a great 49:29 person to aspire to be like to be
how do we get to 100, right? Um, but that's so I'm always like, you need to look at whoever is kind of rising one step, two 49:35 steps above you to model after that cuz things
change too quick by the time you got to be able to follow that playbook at all. Everything would be different. 49:41 I guess unless you have a [ __ ] unlimited budget, unless you
got that budget wouldn't even make a difference, right? Like cuz 49:48 because they're like they all have their social media followings that are all built. You can't just contrive
that tomorrow even with a budget. like you 49:53 all have like they have found those things that work for them in terms of like pricing and the way they do the vaults and the
releases and like they're 49:59 so it's like oh if we limited budget we'd be ALD tomorrow like well do you have the cultural resonance with like investment bankers that they do you
know How to build real community 50:05 like yeah can we can we talk a little bit about community for one a creator and two a 50:11 brand I want to start with a creator because I
think it's a it's a thing that everyone's se around you got to build a community you got to do this you got to 50:16 do that right just having a broadcast channel isn't building
community and I think I saw a video I'm pretty sure that 50:22 you put out a bit ago just talking about community building. How can a creator go about doing this authentically and
50:28 something that's like actually a real community, not some [ __ ] that's just like, "Yeah, we have this channel, we post in it sporadically." Like, you 50:35 know, I'm just
curious of what you've noticed. And so, I think you can use those things correctly. And I'll call out um 50:40 so my friend Jordan Rogers, he is a like a sports marketing creator.
Yes. He's ex Nike, right? Ex Nike. He I felt like used his 50:46 broadcast channel and his stories really well for his niche to build community around because he's basically uses
his broadcast channel as here's all the news 50:52 you need to know in sports marketing and then asking for their takes and then really kind of making videos based on takes people
have like hey chat do we 50:58 like this Adidas campaign here's my thought he'll get a bunch of replies people are actually like oh I don't like this I do like this then you'll see
like 51:03 a video will come out the next day and it might reference something in the chat so you feel like there's an involvement level um and even like stories being 51:09
conversational uh but I do feel like really the community is bringing bringing value to people that goes 51:15 beyond when they just take your content. It's like, hey, are are you
like a part of their lives in some other way? And then I feel like connecting to the in 51:21 real life experiences is the biggest one. So, I've been like really focused on events
and meetups and stuff like that. And like don't charge for them, 51:26 don't any of the other like it's just like having those because like as soon as you have an in real life
thing with somebody like then I feel like it's 51:32 moved into community, but building it purely online is I feel like it's having a conversational space where people feel like
their input and back and forth is 51:38 valuable. Like you can totally have a community in your YouTube comments like 100%. Um, but then the next step will be 51:43 like bringing
that to real life. But it is not an easy undertaking and it revolves you having more than like more 51:49 than a one-way conversation I think is like the the minimum threshold.
Yeah. What are brands messing up when they do How to crush live events 51:55 their pop-ups? Um, I mean a lot of brands are doing good pop-ups now. But hey, having it be social
media friendly enough is like the 52:00 biggest one. Like is it something you want to put on your gen because you have to get this photo or this thing or that thing um is like a is
like a big part of 52:06 it. But I see lots of really good pop-ups and brand events and activations now. I feel like brands are starting to nail it, but it's like what are your
52:12 consumers creating content from when they do it and what are they excited enough to do and are you thinking about their experience? Uh, one of the ones 52:18 that like when
Road had like these long lines their pop up in New York, it's like they had like waters and gift baskets and like little [ __ ] for all the 52:24 people that were waiting all day
and it's like it's little [ __ ] like that like what is going to make my consumer potentially be upset? How do I 52:30 preemptively solve that problem? Miss Bibbs, dude, she is on
it, man. That brand's amazing. 100%. My girlfriend [ __ ] loves it. 52:36 She buys everything that she puts out and it's like it's incredible stuff. Every everything is very dialed
from a 52:42 product standpoint. I don't I wouldn't know but I've heard Yeah. I mean look at like the cultural 52:47 significance of the iPhone case and [ __ ] like that. Yeah.
It's like I think so many guys have that experience where like their girl saw it for the first 52:52 time and they like audibly gasped and you're like that's like impact, you know?
Yeah. God, it's so interesting. Speaking Your environment matters 52:58 about spaces or staying on spaces, you also talk about how important the space in which you live in is
important for 53:05 your creativity. Can you go into that? Yeah, I just feel like every your entire life now that you're fighting your phone 53:10 and everything around you for
attention is like everything is designed to distract you from like getting to your end goal. And I feel like then in your 53:16 own space, how optimized that is is like a huge
difference. Like I look at this, I have uh I have like my desk with my 53:23 ring light and my tripod and my mic and stuff right there. If I had to set that up every time, I'd make
a third of the 53:29 content, right? And so, and it's the same thing with your prioritization. Like, um, I was talking about this with a friend of mine where he was 53:35
complaining about something. I was like, but you walk in your house, you have a [ __ ] massive like 80inch television. 53:40 Like, that's the most prominent thing in your home. So,
like, what are you going to spend your time doing? It's going to be around that. And like, if the mood 53:46 boards for your brand were covering the television and that was the
center of the room, what do you think the prioritization of attention is? So, I 53:52 think it's like it's almost like dumb genius stuff where you're just like, "Hey, the biggest
or most easiest things to spend your time on is what you're 53:59 going to spend your time on." And so, I think it's like optimizing for that is uh is like super important. 54:04
God, we're we're about to be home office, guys. We cannot wait, dude. Yeah, that's definitely a big thing that 54:09 I found living here is it's been great for the podcast and we
have so much 54:15 camera stuff, but it wasn't designed for us to be creative. And also like I would 54:21 work out of my room having like my desk in there. And I'm so excited to
have a clean space. Living with a girl is nice 54:28 because she brings like she makes it all aesthetic. But having the home office to separate work and home and then also 54:34
having my own space to be like when I go in there I know I'm going to be working and my tripod's going to be set up, the 54:39 lights going to be set up. It's going to be way
easier to make content. Cuz see this this place was optimized for a podcast. It was not optimized to 54:45 to create content for ourselves personally. And it's like it's been super
difficult, but I feel like we've made it work to the best of our ability. 54:52 But like it's so much easier to make a pod. Like people just walk in, we just turn the table, we're
