Real-world examples of case studies Case study examples FAQ Start your online business today. For free. Start for free If you can write a résumé, you can write a case study. Just
as a résumé shows potential employers how your experience can benefit their team, a case study highlights an existing client’s success story to demonstrate your business or
product’s value to prospective clients. A compelling case study includes relevant data without overwhelming your reader, considers the customer’s perspective, and demonstrates how
you handled a specific challenge. The best way to learn how to write one is by reading a stellar business case study example. Start selling with Shopify Enter your email Start for
free You agree to receive Shopify marketing emails. What is a case study? A case study illustrates how a product or service helped a client achieve their goals, showcasing its
effectiveness. A strong case study introduces the client, describes their challenge, and highlights the results. Metrics and testimonials further validate your impact and attract
potential customers. Businesses that provide software, tools, or consulting services often provide case studies to potential customers trying to choose between several options. A
company’s marketing team is typically responsible for writing case studies, but if you have a small business without a dedicated marketing team, don’t worry. Anyone can write a
case study, and it’s a straightforward process if you use a template. Why should you create a case study? A case study brings your product or service to life for future customers
with real-world examples. These success stories offer tangible results. Case studies are, thus, a form of social proof, but their power goes beyond a mere testimonial or review.
Since B2B services often are expensive and require approval from multiple decision-makers, typical forms of social proof often aren't enough to convince potential customers.
Business customers want to be able to share compelling data with their teams, and that’s where the case study is beneficial. How to write a case study Choose a template Interview
your client or customer Describe the situation Identify the solution Present the results 1. Choose a template You don’t necessarily need a template to write a case study, but it
can make the process easier—especially if you haven’t written one before or need to write several at once. You’ll notice that most business case studies take the same general
format; after inputting the basics into the template, you can add your own personal flair. (That is, your branding and voice.) presentation Free Case Study Template Show your
expertise and highlight your company’s success with our free case study template. Get the template now 2. Interview your client or customer The client or customer interview is the
heart of the case study. Identify several current or past clients willing to chat with you about their experiences. Look for repeat customers and those who reached out
independently to tell you how much they enjoyed your product or service. A phone interview is the best way to get conversational quotes, but you can correspond via email if your
subject is short on time. Not sure what to ask? When social advertising agency Biddyco interviewed the VP of Marketing at Fellow, they asked him the following questions, according
to their case study: What were the obstacles that would have prevented you from choosing/hiring Biddyco? What have you found as a result of hiring Biddyco? What specific feature or
thing do you like most about Biddyco’s services? Would you recommend Biddyco and why? The goal of the interview is to better understand your client’s experience with your product
or service and grab a soundbite you can use as a testimonial in your case study. If you didn’t work directly with the client, you may also want to interview someone on your team
who did to get more context. 3. Describe the situation Give context to your case study with a brief description of the client’s business and the desired outcome that led them to
seek your product or service. You can follow this general formula: [Client’s name] is a [type of business] with [unique feature]. [Client’s name] came to [your business] seeking
[client’s desired outcome] while [requirement]. Here’s an example of a one-sentence situation summary in the case study for Sharma Brands’ client Feastables: “Feastables, a
better-for-you snacks company, came to us in need of a team to take the DTC setup off their plate.” Advertising company Adgile, which created moving billboards for the
non-alcoholic aperitif brand Ghia, has a longer description in its case study that provides background on the marketplace, but the heart of it is this: “Ghia was seeking creative
ways to break through the clutter of a crowded—and big-budgeted—adult beverage market, all while managing customer acquisition cost (CAC).” 4. Identify the solution This section
can vary depending on your field. Also described as “the action,” “the work,” or “the strategy,” the solution describes the strategic insights your company brought to your client’s
problem or how your customer used your product to achieve their goals. The basic formula: [Client’s name] partnered with [your business] to [service received]. Here’s an example
from email marketing software Klaviyo’s case study featuring olive oil brand Graza: “Graza uses Klaviyo’s granular segmentation tools to send automated flows and promotional
campaigns to small, targeted groups of customers based on purchase frequency.” This section describes exactly which of Klaviyo’s features Graza used (granular segmentation) and how
they used it (to send automated flows to small, targeted groups), without getting into any outcomes or results yet. 5. Present the results This section is where you’ll win over
prospective customers and build trust. The basic formula is: [Client’s name] used [service received] to [desired outcome]. Share how your product or service positively affected the
client’s business, whether that’s cost savings, more clients, or improved company culture. According to a case study from community platform TYB, the results it delivered for skin
care company Dieux were as follows: “Dieux was able to create thousands of authentic, personalized referrals ahead of its new product launch plus live out its brand promise of
transparency.” Depending on your product or service, your results may include quantifiable outcomes (like thousands of referrals), intangibles (like living out your brand promise),
or both, as in the case of TYB. Real-world examples of case studies Sharma Brands for Feastables Adgile Media Group for Ghia Meta for Lulus TYB for Dieux Biddyco for Fellow Outline
for Heyday Canning Klaviyo for Graza Culture Amp for Bombas Kustomer for ThirdLove A great way to write a case study is to look at a sample case study—or better yet, many. You’ll
notice that wildly different businesses have case studies that follow roughly the same structure, which is why we recommend using one of our free case study templates to write
yours. Learn from this mix of business, design, and marketing case study examples: Sharma Brands for Feastables Sharma Brands is a branding agency founded by Nik Sharma, “The DTC
Guy.” Sharma Brands keeps its case study featuring snack company Feastables short and sweet, breaking it down into three chronological sections: the situation, the work, and the
outcome. The Sharma Brands case study is a good example of how to incorporate meaningful results without sharing actual numbers (which the client may not wish to make public) or
getting into an in-depth analysis. Instead of metrics, Sharma Brands lists the tasks it executed: “Successfully launched their DTC site.” “Simultaneously launched on GoPuff with no
downtime.” It also lists some general achievements: “Broke Shopify records in the first 24 hours of launch.” “All revenue and engagement metrics were highly exceeded.” Adgile Media
Group for Ghia . Adgile Media Group creates outdoor advertising by providing brands with mobile billboards. Unlike traditional outdoor advertising, Adgile also tracks the digital
impact of its IRL campaigns. Adgile’s case study featuring the non-alcoholic beverage brand Ghia is the perfect place to show off the metrics it collects, like: 78% homepage visit
lift 91% conversion lift 82% lift on its Find Us page Increase in brand awareness and recall, more than 75% over the competition Meta for Lulus Meta, the social media and digital
advertising platform, does something in its case studies that every company can replicate. Instead of saving the numbers for the results section, Meta provides a brief overview
near the top. This breaks up the text visually, provides a quick snapshot for anyone who doesn’t want to read the full case study, and intrigues those curious to know how they
achieved those numbers. A screengrab of Lulu's case study results. Meta’s case study for the clothing company Lulus starts by teasing its most impressive stat: “The women’s fashion
ecommerce company compared the performance of a Meta Advantage+ shopping campaign with Advantage+ catalog ads versus its usual ad campaign setup and saw a 47% increase in return on
ad spend using the Advantage+ products.” It then presents three key figures in a visually appealing design, drawing clear attention to the impact it had on this customer. TYB for
Dieux TYB is a community platform that rewards fans for creating user-generated content. TYB’s case study for Dieux details how the skincare brand used its platform to involve
customers in product testing. It also does something small worth noting: Instead of sticking the call to action at the bottom of the case study, TYB places a “request demo” button
at the top of the page. That way, anyone compelled by the results of the case study can take the next step immediately. Screengrab of Dieux's referral with request a demo button
and image of a statue of cupid. Biddyco for Fellow Advertising agency Biddyco took a unique approach to its case study for the coffee- and tea-gear company Fellow. Unlike other
business case study examples that use the typical situation-solution-results format, Biddyco structured its case study as an extended testimonial, with a series of questions like,
“What specific feature or thing do you like most about Biddyco’s services?” In addition to client feedback, Biddyco also highlights a few key accomplishments under the heading “All
You Really Need to Know.” Screengrab of Biddyco's case study results. Outline for Heyday Canning A branding studio like Outline won’t approach case studies in the same way an
advertising platform like Meta would. What matters here isn’t cost per impression or ROAS, it’s how everything looks. That’s why Outline’s case study for ​​Heyday Canning is
relatively light on words and heavy on imagery. If your work is more visual than numerical, your case study is a great place to show your behind-the-scenes process. For example,
Outline shows the label design alongside images of the cans on the shelf and provides a brief description of the design inspiration. This example shows how you can have a
design-focused case study that still tells a compelling story. Heyday Canning product display with highligh on Apricot Glazed. Klaviyo for Graza Klaviyo, an email marketing
software company, puts numbers front and center in its case study for the olive oil company Graza. If your product or service involves tracking metrics like email open rates,
revenue, and click rates, highlight those stats in a larger font size, as Klaviyo did. Klaviyo’s case study for Graza also shows you don’t necessarily need to fix a problem to
create a great case study; you can also simply help your client achieve their goals. According to Klaviyo’s case study, Graza’s challenge was to create strong customer
relationships. Screengrab of Graza case study results and image of Graza products display. Culture Amp for Bombas How do you write a compelling case study if your service doesn’t
involve tangible metrics or flashy design? For the performance management software company Culture Amp, it’s highlighting key statistics about the subject of its case study, sock
company Bombas. Like Meta and Klaviyo, Culture Amp highlights three numbers in large font. But these numbers are stats about their client Bombas, not Culture Amp’s services: “120+
employees,” “25M+ items donated,” and “$100M+ in revenue for 2018.” Instead of showing off the results it achieved for Bombas, these numbers let prospective clients know that
Culture Amp works with big, important companies on their performance management process. Kustomer for ThirdLove Choosing a customer relationships management (CRM) platform is a big
decision. Switching platforms—as bra company ThirdLove did in this case study from customer support platform Kustomer—can involve lengthy data migration, customization, and
employee onboarding. That’s why it makes sense that Kustomer’s case study for ThirdLove is a four-page-long PDF and not a blog post. If your case study involves a long, detailed
analysis, follow Kustomer’s example and make two versions of your case study. The first page is an executive summary, with about a paragraph each describing the challenge and
results. If after reading the first page, you want to learn more, you can dive into the rest of the case study, but you don’t have to read the entire thing to get a sense of how
Kustomer collaborated with ThirdLove. Screengrab of ThirdLove case study with image of bra display. Case study examples FAQ How do you write a simple case study? To simplify the
case-study writing process, download a template. Shopify’s fill-in-the-blanks case study template can help you share your customers’ success stories in an easily digestible,
well-designed format. Why are case studies important for businesses? For the business reading a case study, the contents can help them decide between different products or
services. For the business writing the case study, it’s a chance to connect more deeply with potential customers. What is an example of a case study? An example of a case study is
a mobile billboard company’s overview of the services it provided to a client. The case study might include an overview of the client's goals and how the advertiser addressed them,
plus a list of outcomes—increased website visits, decreased costs per visit, and a rise in brand awareness. SS by Shopify Staff Published on Jul 19, 2024 SHARE ARTICLE Share on
Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SS by Shopify Staff Jul 19, 2024 • 10 min read The newsletter for entrepreneurs Join millions of self-starters in getting business resources,
tips, and inspiring stories in your inbox. Enter email Unsubscribe anytime. By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify. By proceeding, you agree to
the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy. Popular Posts SOCIAL MEDIA OPTIMIZATION How To Make Money on Instagram in 2025 (9 Actionable Ideas) STARTING UP How To Start an
Ecommerce Business: Guide for 2025 GUIDES What Is Dropshipping and How Does It Work? (2025) FIND AN IDEA What Is Print on Demand & How To Start a Business (2025) Start for free The
point of sale for every sale. Start for free Popular Posts SELL ONLINE How To Create a Website in 9 Steps (2025) STARTING UP How To Start an Online Store in 2025 (Step-by-Step
Guide) FIND AN IDEA How To Make and Sell Merch Your Fans Will Love (2025) SELL ONLINE 10 Best Ecommerce Website Builders for Your Online Store (2025) Popular Posts Graphic of a
mobile phone with heart shapes bubbles floating around it SOCIAL MEDIA OPTIMIZATION How To Make Money on Instagram in 2025 (9 Actionable Ideas) 2023-11-08 3D models of a shopping
cart and a smartphone on a turquoise background. STARTING UP How To Start an Ecommerce Business: Guide for 2025 2023-09-01 GUIDES What Is Dropshipping and How Does It Work? (2025)
2023-12-05 An introduction to print on demand and how to get started. FIND AN IDEA What Is Print on Demand & How To Start a Business (2025) 2023-11-09 Placeholder SELL ONLINE How
To Create a Website in 9 Steps (2025) 2023-09-20 illustration of a chef cooking up a shopify store: how to start an online store STARTING UP How To Start an Online Store in 2025
(Step-by-Step Guide) 2023-11-23 sweatshirt and socks from MrBeast merch line FIND AN IDEA How To Make and Sell Merch Your Fans Will Love (2025) 2023-12-02 Illustration of a basket
made out of bricks and mortar, showcasing how an ecommerce website builder can help you construct an online store SELL ONLINE 10 Best Ecommerce Website Builders for Your Online
Store (2025) 2023-11-06 The newsletter for entrepreneurs Join millions of self-starters in getting business resources, tips, and inspiring stories in your inbox. Enter
emailSubscribe Unsubscribe anytime. By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify. By proceeding, you agree to the Terms and Conditions and Privacy
Policy. Subscription banner Sell anywhere with Shopify Learn on the go. Try Shopify for free, and explore all the tools you need to start, run, and grow your business. Start for
free Start free then enjoy 3 months for $1/month Shopify What is Shopify? Shopify Editions Careers Investors Newsroom Sustainability Ecosystem Developer Docs Theme Store App Store
Partners Affiliates Resources Blog Compare Shopify Guides Courses Free Tools Changelog Support Shopify Help Center Community Forum Hire a Partner Service Status USA | English Terms
of Service Legal Privacy Policy Sitemap Your Privacy ChoicesCalifornia Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Opt-Out Icon Skip to content Products Solutions Resources Enterprise Pricing
GitHub Explore apps Contact sales Log in Sign up Blog App picks Automation with Zapier Productivity Business growth Product & platform Company updates Remote work Zapier guides
Home Business growth Marketing tips Marketing tips 13 min read 16 case study examples (+ 3 templates to make your own) By Hachem Ramki · September 3, 2025 Hero image with an icon
representing a case study I like to think of case studies as a business's version of a resume. It highlights what the business can do, lends credibility to its offer, and contains
only the positive bullet points that paint it in the best light possible. Imagine if the guy running your favorite taco truck followed you home so that he could "really dig into
how that burrito changed your life." I see the value in the practice. People naturally prefer a tried-and-true burrito just as they prefer tried-and-true products or services. To
help you showcase your success and flesh out your burrito questionnaire, I've put together some case study examples and key takeaways. Table of contents: What is a case study? 16
case study examples 3 case study templates Tips for writing a case study Automate your case studies with Zapier Case study FAQ What is a case study? A case study is an in-depth
analysis of how your business, product, or service has helped past clients. It can be a document, a webpage, or a slide deck that showcases measurable, real-life results. Grow your
business with marketing automation Learn how For example, if you're a SaaS company, you can analyze your customers' results after a few months of using your product to measure its
effectiveness. You can then turn this analysis into a case study that further proves to potential customers what your product can do and how it can help them overcome their
challenges. It changes the narrative from "I promise that we can do X and Y for you" to "Here's what we've done for businesses like yours, and we can do it for you, too." 16 case
study examples While most case studies follow the same structure, quite a few try to break the mold and create something unique. Some businesses lean heavily on design and
presentation, while others pursue a detailed, stat-oriented approach. Some businesses try to mix both. There's no set formula to follow, but I've found that the best case studies
utilize impactful design to engage readers and leverage statistics and case details to drive the point home. A case study typically highlights the companies, the challenges, the
solution, and the results. The examples below will help inspire you to do it, too. 1. Volcanica Coffee and AdRoll On top of a background of coffee beans, a block of text with
percentage growth statistics for how AdRoll nitro-fueled Volcanica coffee. People love a good farm-to-table coffee story, and boy am I one of them. But I've shared this case study
with you for more reasons than my love of coffee. I enjoyed this study because it was written as though it was a letter. In this case study, the founder of Volcanica Coffee talks
about the journey from founding the company to personally struggling with learning and applying digital marketing to finding and enlisting AdRoll's services. It felt more
authentic, less about AdRoll showcasing their worth and more like a testimonial from a grateful and appreciative client. After the story, the case study wraps up with successes,
milestones, and achievements. Note that quite a few percentages are prominently displayed at the top, providing supporting evidence that backs up an inspiring story. Takeaway:
Highlight your goals and measurable results to draw the reader in and provide concise, easily digestible information. 2. Taylor Guitars and Airtable Screenshot of the Taylor
Guitars and Airtable case study, with the title: Taylor Guitars brings more music into the world with Airtable This Airtable case study on Taylor Guitars comes as close as one can
to an optimal structure. It features a video that represents the artistic nature of the client, highlighting key achievements and dissecting each element of Airtable's influence.
It also supplements each section with a testimonial or quote from the client, using their insights as a catalyst for the case study's narrative. For example, the case study quotes
the social media manager and project manager's insights regarding team-wide communication and access before explaining in greater detail. Takeaway: Highlight pain points your
business solves for its client, and explore that influence in greater detail. 3. EndeavourX and Figma Screenshot of the Endeavour and Figma case study, showing a bulleted list
about why EndeavourX chose Figma followed by an image of EndeavourX's workspace on Figma My favorite part of Figma's case study is highlighting why EndeavourX chose its solution.
You'll notice an entire section on what Figma does for teams and then specifically for EndeavourX. It also places a heavy emphasis on numbers and stats. The study, as brief as it
is, still manages to pack in a lot of compelling statistics about what's possible with Figma. Takeaway: Showcase the "how" and "why" of your product's differentiators and how they
benefit your customers. 4. ActiveCampaign and Zapier Screenshot of Zapier's case study with ActiveCampaign, showing three data visualizations on purple backgrounds Zapier's case
study leans heavily on design, using graphics to present statistics and goals in a manner that not only remains consistent with the branding but also actively pushes it forward,
drawing users' eyes to the information most important to them. The graphics, emphasis on branding elements, and cause/effect style tell the story without requiring long, drawn-out
copy that risks boring readers. Instead, the cause and effect are concisely portrayed alongside the client company's information for a brief and easily scannable case study.
Takeaway: Lean on design to call attention to the most important elements of your case study, and make sure it stays consistent with your branding. 5. Arizona State University and
OpenAI Screenshot of the Arizona State University and OpenAI case study In true OpenAI fashion, this case study is text-heavy, but it packs a compelling narrative. While it doesn't
lean on flashy visuals, it includes a video that shows off how ASU is bringing AI into the classroom (and doing a pretty impressive job of it, I might add). What really got me
excited about this one is how it focuses on the nuts and bolts of real-world impact. Instead of getting lost in theoretical benefits, the study dives right into practical
applications: how students and faculty are actually using AI to work smarter, not harder. Takeaway: Get creative with the media you implement in your case study. Videos can be a
very powerful addition when a case study requires more detailed storytelling. 6. Shopify and GitHub Screenshot of the Shopify and GitHub case study, with the title "Shopify keeps
pushing ecommerce forward with help from GitHub tools," followed by a photo of a plant and a Shopify bag on a table on a dark background GitHub's case study on Shopify is a light
read. It addresses client pain points and discusses the different aspects its product considers and improves for clients. It touches on workflow issues, internal systems,
automation, and security. It does a great job of representing what one company can do with GitHub. To drive the point home, the case study features colorful quote callouts from the
Shopify team, sharing their insights and perspectives on the partnership, the key issues, and how they were addressed. Takeaway: Leverage quotes to boost the authoritativeness and
trustworthiness of your case study. 7. Audible and Contentful Screenshot of the Audible and Contentful case study showing images of titles on Audible Contentful's case study on
Audible features almost every element a case study should. It includes not one but two videos and clearly outlines the challenge, solution, and outcome before diving deeper into
what Contentful did for Audible. The language is simple, and the writing is heavy with quotes and personal insights. This case study is a uniquely original experience. The fact
that the companies in question are perhaps two of the most creative brands out there may be the reason. I expected nothing short of a detailed analysis, a compelling story, and
video content. Takeaway: Inject some brand voice into the case study, and create assets that tell the story for you. 8. Zoom and Asana Screenshot of Zoom and Asana's case study on
a navy blue background and an image of someone sitting on a Zoom call at a desk with the title "Zoom saves 133 work weeks per year with Asana" Asana's case study on Zoom is longer
than the average piece and features detailed data on Zoom's growth since 2020. Instead of relying on imagery and graphics, it features several quotes and testimonials. It's
designed to be direct, informative, and promotional. At some point, the case study reads more like a feature list. There were a few sections that felt a tad too promotional for my
liking, but to each their own burrito. Takeaway: Maintain a balance between promotional and informative. You want to showcase the high-level goals your product helped achieve
without losing the reader. 9. Hickies and Mailchimp Screenshot of the Hickies and Mailchimp case study with the title in a fun orange font, followed by a paragraph of text and a
photo of a couple sitting on a couch looking at each other and smiling I've always been a fan of Mailchimp's comic-like branding, and this case study does an excellent job of
sticking to their tradition of making information easy to understand, casual, and inviting. It features a short video that briefly covers Hickies as a company and Mailchimp's
efforts to serve its needs for customer relationships and education processes. Overall, this case study is a concise overview of the partnership that manages to convey success data
and tell a story at the same time. What sets it apart is that it does so in a uniquely colorful and brand-consistent manner. Takeaway: Be concise to provide as much value in as
little text as possible. 10. NVIDIA and Workday Screenshot of NVIDIA and Workday's case study with a photo of a group of people standing around a tall desk and smiling and the
title "NVIDIA hires game changers" The gaming industry is notoriously difficult to recruit for, as it requires a very specific set of skills and experience. This case study focuses
on how Workday was able to help fill that recruitment gap for NVIDIA, one of the biggest names in the gaming world. Though it doesn't feature videos or graphics, this case study
stood out to me in how it structures information like "key products used" to give readers insight into which tools helped achieve these results. Takeaway: If your company offers
multiple products or services, outline exactly which ones were involved in your case study, so readers can assess each tool. 11. KFC and Contentful Screenshot of KFC and
Contentful's case study showing the outcome of the study, showing two stats: 43% increase in YoY digital sales and 50%+ increase in AU digital sales YoY I'm personally not a big
KFC fan, but that's only because I refuse to eat out of a bucket. My aversion to the bucket format aside, Contentful follows its consistent case study format in this one, outlining
challenges, solutions, and outcomes before diving into the nitty-gritty details of the project. Say what you will about KFC, but their primary product (chicken) does present a
unique opportunity for wordplay like "Continuing to march to the beat of a digital-first drum(stick)" or "Delivering deep-fried goodness to every channel." Takeaway: Inject humor
into your case study if there's room for it and if it fits your brand. 12. Intuit and Twilio Screenshot of the Intuit and Twilio case study on a dark background with three small,
light green icons illustrating three important data points Twilio does an excellent job of delivering achievements at the very beginning of the case study and going into detail in
this two-minute read. While there aren't many graphics, the way quotes from the Intuit team are implemented adds a certain flair to the study and breaks up the sections nicely.
It's simple, concise, and manages to fit a lot of information in easily digestible sections. Takeaway: Make sure each section is long enough to inform but brief enough to avoid
boring readers. Break down information for each section, and don't go into so much detail that you lose the reader halfway through. 13. Spotify and Salesforce Screenshot of Spotify
and Salesforce's case study showing a still of a video with the title "Automation keeps Spotify's ad business growing year over year" Salesforce created a video that accurately
summarizes the key points of the case study. Beyond that, the page itself is very light on content, and sections are as short as one paragraph. I especially like how information is
broken down into "What you need to know," "Why it matters," and "What the difference looks like." I'm not ashamed of being spoon-fed information. When it's structured so well and
so simply, it makes for an easy read. Takeaway: Invest in videos that capture and promote your partnership with your case study subject. Video content plays a promotional role that
extends beyond the case study in social media and marketing initiatives. 14. Benchling and Airtable Screenshot of the Benchling and Airtable case study with the title: How
Benchling achieves scientific breakthroughs via efficiency Biotech R&D and health care nuances go right over my head, and the research and digging I've been doing in the name of
these burritos (case studies) revealed that these products are immensely complex. That's precisely why this case study deserves a read—it succeeds at explaining a complex project
that readers outside the industry wouldn't know much about. Takeaway: Simplify complex information, and walk readers through the company's operations and how your business helped
streamline them. 15. Chipotle and Hubble Screenshot of the Chipotle and Hubble case study The concision of this case study is refreshing. It features two sections—the challenge and
the solution—all in 316 words. This goes to show that your case study doesn't necessarily need to be a four-figure investment with video shoots and studio time. Sometimes, the
message is simple and short enough to convey in a handful of paragraphs. Takeaway: Like building the perfect burrito, consider what you should include instead of what you can
include. Assess the time, resources, and effort you're able and willing to invest in a case study, and choose which elements you want to include from there. 16. Hudl and Zapier
Screenshot of Hudl and Zapier's case study, showing data visualizations at the bottom, two photos of people playing sports on the top right , and a quote from the Hudl team on the
topleft I may be biased, but I'm a big fan of seeing metrics and achievements represented in branded graphics. It can be a jarring experience to navigate a website, then visit a
case study page and feel as though you've gone to a completely different website. The Zapier format provides nuggets of high-level insights, milestones, and achievements, as well
as the challenge, solution, and results. My favorite part of this case study is how it's supplemented with a blog post detailing how Hudl uses Zapier automation to build a seamless
user experience. The case study is essentially the summary, and the blog article is the detailed analysis that provides context beyond X achievement or Y goal. Takeaway: Keep your
case study concise and informative. Create other resources to provide context under your blog, media or press, and product pages. 3 case study templates Now that you've had your
fill of case studies (if that's possible), I've got just what you need: an infinite number of case studies, which you can create yourself with these case study templates. Simple
case study template Screenshot of Zapier's first case study template, with the title and three spots for data callouts at the top on a light peach-colored background, followed by a
place to write the main success of the case study on a dark green background Make a copy If you've got a quick hit of stats you want to show off, try this template. The opening
section gives space for a short summary and three visually appealing stats you can highlight, followed by a headline and body where you can break the case study down more
thoroughly. This one's pretty simple, with only sections for solutions and results, but you can easily continue the formatting to add more sections as needed. Detailed case study
template Screenshot of Zapier's second case study template, with the title, objectives, and overview on a dark blue background with an orange strip in the middle with a place to
write the main success of the case study Make a copy For a case study template with a little more detail, use this one. Opening with a striking cover page for a quick overview,
this one goes on to include context, stakeholders, challenges, multiple quote callouts, and quick-hit stats. Narrative case study template Screenshot of Zapier's third case study
template, with the places for title, objectives, and about the business on a dark green background followed by three spots for data callouts in orange boxes Make a copy Whether you
want a little structural variation or just like a nice dark green, this template has similar components to the last template but is designed to help tell a story. Move from the
client overview through a description of your company before getting to the details of how you fixed said company's problems. Tips for writing a case study Examples are all well
and good, but you don't learn how to make a burrito just by watching tutorials on YouTube without knowing what any of the ingredients are. You could, but it probably wouldn't be
all that good. Writing a good case study comes down to a mix of creativity, branding, and the capacity to invest in the project. With those details in mind, here are some case
study tips to follow: Have an objective: Define your objective by identifying the challenge, solution, and results. Assess your work with the client and focus on the most prominent
wins. You're speaking to multiple businesses and industries through the case study, so make sure you know what you want to say to them. Focus on persuasive data: Growth percentages
and measurable results are your best friends. Extract your most compelling data and highlight it in your case study. Use eye-grabbing graphics: Branded design goes a long way in
accurately representing your brand and retaining readers as they review the study. Leverage unique and eye-catching graphics to keep readers engaged. Simplify data presentation:
Some industries are more complex than others, and sometimes, data can be difficult to understand at a glance. Make sure you present your data in the simplest way possible. Make it
concise, informative, and easy to understand. Automate your case studies with Zapier A strong case study doesn't just showcase your success—it tells a story that builds trust and
fuels growth. But when customer feedback lives in one tool, approvals in another, and drafts are buried in email threads, the process drags—slowing down your ability to share wins
with your audience. On Zapier, you can orchestrate end-to-end workflows that automatically turn customer insights into polished case studies at scale. For example, you can use this
survey template to collect customer feedback, and store responses in Zapier Tables. Survey Template Collect feedback quickly with automatic notifications. Try it From there, you
can use a Zapier Chatbot to generate case study drafts that then get added to your project management tool for review. Blog Generator AI Chatbot Template Unleash your inner
wordsmith with Zapier AI Chatbot’s blog editing and writing tool, powered by OpenAI. Try it By embedding case studies into a larger, multi-step workflow, you're not just collecting
stories—you're building a repeatable, scalable engine for highlighting customer wins and driving business results. Case study FAQ Got your case study template? Great—it's time to
gather the team for an awkward semi-vague data collection task. While you do that, here are some case study quick answers for you to skim through while you contemplate what to call
your team meeting. What is an example of a case study? An example of a case study is when a software company analyzes its results from a client project and creates a webpage,
presentation, or document that focuses on high-level results, challenges, and solutions in an attempt to showcase effectiveness and promote the software. How do you write a case
study? To write a good case study, you should have an objective, identify persuasive and compelling data, leverage graphics, and simplify data. Case studies typically include an
analysis of the challenge, solution, and results of the partnership. What is the format of a case study? While case studies don't have a set format, they're often portrayed as
reports or essays that inform readers about the partnership and its results. What are the different types of case studies? Case studies come in a few flavors, depending on what
you're trying to achieve: Exploratory case studies dig into a problem without a clear solution. Descriptive case studies provide a detailed account of a specific situation.
Explanatory case studies break down cause and effect to explain why something happened. Intrinsic case studies focus on a unique case purely for its own sake—think of studying a
one-of-a-kind company, event, or individual just because it's interesting. Instrumental case studies use a specific case to gain insights into a broader concept. Collective case
studies analyze multiple cases together to find patterns. Businesses often use marketing case studies to highlight customer success stories, while academic case studies explore
theories in real-world contexts. Why are case studies important for businesses? Case studies provide real-world proof of a company's effectiveness, building trust with potential
