you an example of how I do it for myself for the Patrick Deng brand that you see on YouTube. So, a couple 12:24 passions I have is travel, anime, fighting, and Asian culture. So,
at first you might be thinking, okay, well, Personal Branding 12:31 Patrick is an expert in sales, marketing, personal branding. So, how does traveling and anime and fighting 12:37
and Asian culture relate to his personal brand. And let me tell you how I do it. 12:42 In a lot of my videos, you'll notice that I use a lot of B-roll. A lot of B-roll of me
traveling to different 12:47 countries, living a life in Southeast Asia, and just like, you know, building this online business. I'm passionate about traveling. It's fun for me.
like I 12:54 love doing it and I want to show this to you guys to show you that hey like what I'm doing is actually real like I'm not 12:59 just like sitting in my basement making
videos like I'm living this life in Asia take a glimpse right and so when I do 13:04 that what does that subconscious do it says oh Patrick actually made it and he can actually
teach me something so I 13:09 should watch his YouTube videos so by teaching personal branding and sales and 13:14 marketing which is the money maker and adding the sauce of travel
it just builds my credibility for what I 13:19 whatever I'm saying essentially that's an example of sauce Okay, now let's get into another one. Anime. So, how does 13:25 how does
anime relate to building a personal brand? So, if you think about the aesthetic I have, so let's say this 13:31 shot, literally this shot right here, right? You see it's dark in
the background. We we got the river in the back with the bridge, you know, the 13:37 colors and all that kind of stuff, right? So, high-rise building. And how did I come up with
this particular shot with the two two lights in the back and 13:44 everything? It's kind of inspired by anime and Asian culture. So, I basically used this scene from John Wick 4 in
the 13:50 Osaka, right? the Osaka scene where they're fighting in there and I saw like, hey, like I like this dark blue kind of vibe with the lights. And so you 13:57 kind of see
some inspiration there. I also like anime, so particularly characters that are more dark and edgy. 14:04 They usually have lightning powers, a lot of blue. So you'll notice a lot
of my aesthetic does use a lot of black and 14:10 whites, blues, and purples. Right? For this video, I'm using a lot of orange just to play around with it. But normally I'm using
blues and purples. 14:16 Even my website, it's like dark and blue. So the aesthetic and vibe actually comes from my passion or interest in 14:23 anime and Asian culture that I see
and examples and I mix it all together to create a YouTube video that is uniquely 14:29 me. Even fighting in Asian culture, right? Like I'm learning Muai from a basically, you
know, one of the top 14:35 national fighters in the country, right? And so how does that tie into personal branding? Well, when I show people clips 14:41 of me boxing or clips of
me doing Muay Thai or if I say like I'm training with this guy, then it actually makes me look 14:47 better, right? Because if you train in fighting, you can't hide behind
anything, right? Like you can punch a pad or you can't you kick the bag, you 14:53 can't, right? So, you can't fake it. And to actually be good at the thing, it's very difficult.
It takes a lot of 14:59 training. You have to keep your body fit. You have to eat well. You have to exercise. And you have to constantly train and get professional help. So, it
15:05 kind of shows like one, I'm committed. I'm disciplined like and I'm you know like really doing it right now. If you 15:11 apply that mentality into all aspects or other
aspects I do whether it's business 15:17 creative direction or coaching my clients I have the same mentality. So subconsciously I'm trying to convey that 15:22 by showing maybe
different B-rolls of me fighting or maybe lessons I've learned from being disciplined or getting my ass 15:28 kicked and I'm trying to attach it to the business lessons that I
give. So again, the personal brand, sales, 15:34 marketing, which I typically teach, is the steak, but the sauce is the travel, 15:39 the Asian culture, me living in Vietnam, the
anime, the fighting, right? That's what makes it interesting because it's 15:44 the personal brand gold rush. Literally, everyone's trying to like teach you how to build a personal
brand, right? Which which is fair. Now, it just comes down 15:51 to who do you like, who do you relate to, right? I'm sure a lot of people who are Asian, who maybe who like Muay
Thai 15:57 and anime and stuff, they're going to look at me and be like, "Wow, I like Patrick Sick. Let me book a call with him." Right? So, you have to use your 16:02 interests
and passions, backgrounds, ethnicity, whether you're a male or female, because that's going to attract a different audience. Use all these 16:09 things to your advantage to be
different. Now, I'm going to get into a even more advanced topic when it comes 16:14 to personal branding. This is going to be showcasing the right passions because here's the
thing. Not all passions are Passions 16:20 created equal and not all passions and hobbies are going to be marketable. So, you want to pick and showcase the 16:26 hobbies that
you're into that can be perceived as cool. Okay? Now, you could be a trends setter and do the uncool 16:33 thing and make it cool, but chances are you're probably not going to do
that. And chances are you got to ride the wave, right? That's just the reality for 16:38 most people. Unless you're just that 1% trends setter. Everything you do is cool. Like, I
don't know, you're Kanye 16:44 West or ASAP Rocky, then yeah, sure. But for the majority of us, we're not that cool. Strategically, how I've done it is 16:49 this. Everybody loves
to travel, right? So, like, everybody wants the life of freedom, be able to go anywhere you want. So, that's already cool off the 16:55 bat. Anime at one point it was like really a
nerdy thing but nowadays it's one of the most mainstream entertainment 17:01 uh forms there is like on the planet right it's one of the fastest growing categories on Netflix as
well everybody knows like you know Dragon Ball Z Nudo 17:08 Pokemon right Pokemon's like the biggest IP franchise so but I know this I look at the numbers I know it makes a lot of
17:15 money and I know a lot of people are interested and I know my demographic likes it so it's not just like oh I like 17:20 anime I'm going to share my hobbies it's like I like
it but I also know it makes a lot of money and it's a way for me to stand out Like you have to be very 17:26 strategic about this. Let's see Asian culture for example like you know
Asia's on the rise you know a lot of these Southeast Asian countries their their 17:31 GDP is going up like crazy like Japan Korean culture is like popping off. K-pop you know
Blackpink BTS. If we look 17:38 at Labu it's like one of the hottest trends right now. It's an Asian Popar is an Asian company right Lisa is an Asian 17:44 person from Thailand and
you know kind of represents Thai and also K-pop culture like but this is mainstream now 17:51 right? It's not like just hidden in a tiny like you know Southeast Asia. It's like pe
it's a global thing and billions 17:58 of dollars are you know to be made on these things. It's like you have to use your advantages and see these trends 18:04 right and fighting
as well like one championship is putting Muay Thai on the map. So if you look at all the other let's say gurus and personal brand guys 18:10 right they all box you know if you
notice they all do boxing very few of them do Muay Thai. So when I'm going to 18:17 bust out these Muay Thai videos and when I get better it's going to be different right and it's
going to be hard to emulate because again you can't just 18:23 fake it. you actually have to be good at kicking, elbows, knees, and all that kind of stuff. And I'm not saying I'm
I'm great or anything. I'm still 18:28 learning, right? So, you know, give me some time. But, you know, it's something that I see that's on the rise. I can use to my advantage to
stand out. I'm Examples 18:35 showing you how I'm thinking strategically about the hobbies and interests that I show. Let me give you examples of like good examples and not 18:41
good examples. So, let's say you're into trading cards, right? So, like Magic the Gathering, I used to play this when I 18:47 was a kid. Right now, Magic the Gathering, it's not
that cool. You know, you're talking about personal branding and then you're going to talk about Magic the Gathering. you look like a 18:53 dork, right? Because it's not something
that's cool right now. It's not trending. It's not hot. And it's going to take too much effort for you to convince people that it's cool. If you 18:59 like trading cards, but you
also like Pokemon, Pokemon is cool. Right now, there are people on YouTube making like 19:06 getting millions of views just literally buying a bunch of booster packs trying to find
a rare card. And these cards are worth a lot of money. So, it's not only 19:12 like a fun gambling thing. It's also like a speculative investment kind of thing. Like, oh, I got a
rare Charizard 19:17 that's like 10 out of 10 PSA, right? So, this is cool to the mainstream audiences, right? You can see like you 19:24 put Magic the Gathering and Pokemon side
by side, which one is going to give you more clout? Which one's going to get you more attention online? It's going to be 19:30 Pokemon cards. So, if you like both, why would you
choose Magic the Gathering, right? It's just not going to help you 19:36 that much. Whereas, Pokemon is going to put you on the map or it could put you on the map, right? It could
make you different, right? And there's no 19:41 guarantees. So when you think about the interests and hobbies that you want to showcase, think very carefully because 19:47 again
not all hobbies and interests are created equal. You have to understand what the trends are and just do the 19:53 thing that people like is it's going to be so much easier for you.
And so I have a prompt for you. So basically open your chatbt or any software you want to use Prompt 20:00 and then use a voice transcription once again because again you if you
give it more context in your stories, it's going 20:05 to have a better answer for you. So you say you are a top 0.1 personal brand expert, storytelling expert on the 20:12 planet.
My ideal customer is so tell it who you want to attract. Okay, be as 20:17 specific as possible. For example, 95 employees who have a high income but want to start their own
business and 20:22 personal brand and create content. Right? That's like my demographic now. And then you say, okay, my interests and 20:28 passions include and then just list out
all the interests and passions you have. Okay? It doesn't I I don't care if you 20:34 talk for an hour just listing it out. Just list it out because AI can 20:39 synthesize that
information, do the research for you. And then you would say using my origin story from above, right? 20:45 Assuming you're following the exercise step by step in this video and
taking my ideal avatar into 20:50 consideration, what interests, passion, or hobbies that I have can I leverage to 20:56 attract my ideal audience? So this way you can synthesize
everything that makes 21:02 you you and then also connect it with what's trending, what's hot, what's the 21:07 wave right now, what has motion, put it together, and then use that
in your 21:12 content to stand out. It's as simple as that. And I'll tell you a story. I actually have a client who is part of 21:18 the Founder X program, the business coach
program that I mentioned earlier. Her name is Javon. And essentially for 21:23 her, she actually combined her passions and interests, which is a lot of it's like sales, psychology,
and she was able 21:29 to start creating content around this subject, building her YouTube channel. She's getting thousands of views now. 21:35 And she's basically making like 10K
a month after like two month two months of working with me and she quit her 9 toive 21:40 job. And that that was from being a tech sales employee into being a coach essentially
helping other people get a 21:47 highpaying tech sales job. For her, it's like riding a couple waves. It's that number one, people want to make money. Number two, um they want to
get a highp 21:53 paying tech job. Tech is always something that's becoming more and more popular. And so she's just kind of like bridging the gap, right? And you know, 21:59 the
cool part is like she can constantly make content every day because she's interested in these subjects and the way 22:04 she's creating the content, you know, becomes more and more
authentic to herself. So instead of just saying like 22:10 here's how to get uh, you know, a job interview, right? Like she can add her own sauce, her own flavor so she can 22:15
stand out. All right. So, now we're going to get into another advanced technique for you, and that's going to be narrative and positioning. This one Narrative Positioning 22:22 by
far might be the most important when it comes to building a personal brand and standing out from the rest of your 22:29 competition. Now, here's the thing I've noticed after
coaching so many people through the Founder X program and just 22:34 being in the space for like, you know, like 60 or seven years at this point. Most personal brands fail because
their 22:40 narrative is unclear, right? And I even constantly have to relearn this lesson myself. And that is when you cannot 22:47 explain what you do and how you bring value and
who it's for in one sentence, nobody will understand. Right? So, a lot 22:54 there's a lot of people I talk to, they're like, "Oh, I can do this. I can do that. Like, I'm the I'm
the the boss. Like, I'm so cool. Like, everybody 22:59 should listen to me. I have a great story." It's just a lot of rambling and it's not concise. It's not clear. And 23:05
there's no reason for why people would listen. So, if there's no reason for why people would listen, like if you make a 23:10 piece of content with AI, like why do you think anyone
would watch it? no one will watch it because there's no reason for someone to listen in the first place. And so it doesn't matter how good 23:17 you are in the skill that you're
trying to promote online, if people don't understand what you actually do. And 23:23 also, even if they did understand, if you don't show them that you're different from everybody
else, why would 23:29 they watch your content when you're at zero subscribers? And it's okay if you're at zero subscribers because everybody starts from zero. But you just 23:36
have to have a strong narrative and positioning. And this itself will take you extremely far, right? Because I've 23:42 done a lot of consulting for brands and you know a lot of
times they would just pay me for narrative advice. So I would just basically explain how do they 23:50 position themselves in the market. So they seem different from everybody else
and they pay a lot of money for this kind of stuff because that 23:56 differentiator even if all let's say all products are the same will make the difference between if someone
buys and someone does not. I'll give you an Example 24:02 example. So how you want to do it is you want to associate yourself to mega trends and position yourself as 24:09
different. Right? So these are the two goals we have here. I want to use an example of a brand I recently learned 24:14 about. It's called Neuro, right? So it's like Neuro Gum and
they sell gums and mints and I'm sure they're going to sell 24:19 more products, right? So essentially it's a coffee and tea alternative, right? So there are people out there,
there's this trend where they don't want 24:25 to drink coffee every day, stain ste like something quick, fast. Like if you're running for example, you need 24:31 caffeine. what's
the best option, right? You're not going to hold a coffee while you're like running a marathon. So, you 24:36 just chew like, you know, caffeinated gum for example. That works.
Now, for Neuro, they understand this. So, there's 24:41 coffee and tea alternative. That's the first mega trend. Number two, there's a rise in neutropics. So, like basically a
24:47 neutropic, if you don't know, it's any type of thing you take, whether it's like a vitamin or a drug that doesn't 24:52 have a big side effect and it's supposed to enhance
your cognitive ability, 24:57 right? Your brain power essentially. So I mean the way they market it is like a neutropic powers the brain which a lot 25:04 of it's really caffeine
and other things to if you look at the ingredients a lot of it's really just caffeine and other things to like mitigate the the risk of 25:10 taking too much caffeine and just like
smooth out the ride but at the end of the day neutropics right people want to be smarter these days they want to be 25:15 smoking weed all the time and like being dazed out. They
want to be sharp. Now the other bang of trend that neuro is is 25:21 riding is going to be the tech talk creator wave. So, how they're blowing up right now is like they're just
paying 25:26 all these people to create user generated content on Tik Tok and then they're just selling it on like Amazon 25:32 and Tik Tok shop and on their website, right? And
people just buy this stuff out of out of like watching a short. So, 25:37 when you put all these things together, like let's think about what is the narrative that Neuro has. It's
a coffee 25:44 and tea alternative, caffeinated gum that you can take anywhere on the go. 25:50 It's a neutropic that makes you smarter. It makes your brain sharp. And also, 25:55
it's viral. Everybody wants to buy it. And it's funny because the only reason I'm using this particular product in 26:01 this video is because I was on the search for caffeine gum.
Actually, you know, I drink coffee every day and I was 26:07 like, okay, you know, are there any alternatives to this? And then I started researching about caffeinated gum. Then
26:12 I went on Amazon. I typed in caffeine gum and then this is the first brand that popped up and I was like, I don't really know it. So, I didn't buy. Then I 26:18 saw an
interview of one of the co-founders on a podcast and he started explaining his entire story and then 26:23 after he told his story, power of the personal brand right there. I was
sold on the idea. I was like, "Okay, like 26:28 this product's really sick, right?" But my point is this kind of product blows up and I think I think they do like 100 26:34 million
revenue right now per year. Mainly because it's like it's riding on so many narratives at the same time. 26:39 Let's say for me, let's talk about the mega trends that I am
personally writing and if you want to take inspiration here, feel free. Personal brand, creator Mega Trends 26:46 economy is blowing up. Everybody, their mom, dad, uncle, their
dog, their cat wants to be a creator now, right? So, 26:52 there's essentially a gold rush and there is like not enough supply for the demand. The demand for people just dooms
26:59 growing is like infinite. It keeps growing and growing, right? So, now is the best time to be a creator. Hint, 27:04 check out Cowfounder X. Now, specifically, there's an
increase in demand for online education, coaching, 27:10 consulting, and courses, right? So, this is where I kind of like mix different ideas. For me personally, I teach 27:16
personal branding, right? But, you know, I'm not teaching people how to be funny. I'm not teaching people how to stream on 27:22 Twitch, right? I'm specifically teaching people how
to build a following around 27:27 their skills, knowledge, and experience and passions. Package this into an offer 27:33 like coaching, consulting, courses, or info products. So,
they build an audience and they sell their audience to 27:39 make money. So, that's specifically how I do it. It's kind of narrow, right? It's like this narrow piece of personal
branding more geared toward online 27:46 education, which is a mega trend right now, right? Because I can't teach people like how to be funny online. I don't 27:51 really follow
those kind of trends, but I can teach you how to teach a skill online and make money from it. And a lot 27:57 of people want to do that. And in in YouTube and content creation,
it's either you're entertaining or or you're teaching and educating. So, I lean more 28:04 on the educational side because it's easier to make money for most people. And not only
that, the third mega trend 28:09 I'm writing is this unprecedented rise of AI. Now, how do I combine it? It's 28:14 like I'm not teaching people how to make an AI app, right?
That's a whole separate category. I'm showing people 28:19 like in this video, how do you actually use Jet GBT in the right way to speed up your process so that your your work,
28:26 your content doesn't sound like anybody else? And that's kind of novel, right? Because it's um like people will tell 28:32 you like, oh, just use chat and write your article.
But no one's really diving this deep into how to create an 28:39 interesting personal brand using your passions, right? So when I put all these trends together, the personal
branding, the education, the AI, it becomes 28:46 uniquely my own. And so the biggest lesson I've learned since I kind of put these ideas together is uniqueness can 28:52 come from
the way you combine trends together. That is the key to making this 28:58 all work. It's okay to follow trends. It's okay to ride the wave, but to not 29:03 look like a copycat,
you take multiple different trends, you put it together, and then suddenly it becomes something Example Prompt 29:10 new. I want to make sure you can apply this to your business
and your life. So, let's use another prompt here. So, open 29:16 your chat GBT and let's use this template. This one you can type. You don't have to talk it out, but it's just
29:22 I mean, it's up to you really to be honest. You are a top 1% personal brand, marketing expert, and narrative 29:28 positioning expert. Help me find three mega trends I can
use to find my unique narrative and positioning to stand out 29:33 from my competition. Combine my interest mentioned and mentioned above, right? 29:39 And the hero's journey story
mentioned above as well. So, you should have done that already. And make sure to align 29:44 these mega trends to what my market is able and willing to spend money on so I can
create an offer to monetize my 29:50 audience. Some mega trends I'm interested in are. And then you can say personal branding, AI, content creation, 29:57 uh you know, knitting,
sewing, Muay Thai, right? It doesn't matter. And use mega trends to help you figure out which 30:03 direction you can go. Because, you know, after working with so many people in
the Founders program, I've actually learned 30:09 the difference between the the people that succeed and the ones that don't are the ones that find a trend that's just 30:16
growing. You need to find a growing trend, okay? and then they just uniquely pocket themselves in like this little 30:23 niche. It's not too niche, but it just they just find a way
to separate themselves from everybody else, right? I'll give you an example. One of my 30:29 clients, Brandon, he basically was uh he had a YouTube channel creating videos on how
to help beginners, you know, with 30:34 Cap Cut and edit videos and film, right? And it was getting some traction, but not really. And then I asked him like, 30:41 okay, well, like
what do you do for a living and stuff, right? and that he's basically in the uh I don't want to give 30:46 away everything, but he's in the construction industry cuz I want to keep
it on a download for him out of respect. 30:51 He said like a lot of people he knows in the industry really like the way he you know films the construction sites. It 30:58 helps
these companies generate more leads and make money. And so I told him like look like why would you create a 31:03 YouTube channel helping beginners when it's so broad, right? Like
that appeals to too many people like a tutorial on 31:09 how to do cap cut, right? too too many people in the world and it's like the chances of them buying something from you high
ticket is pretty low because 31:15 it's not specific enough. So I told him like look I think you should just start an agency helping people edit their 31:21 videos specifically for
the construction space because if you were to take your 31:26 creative direction ability filming and editing compared to the best of the best on YouTube you know you're not there.
31:34 Now, if you took the skill set you have and applied it into construction, you can be literally number one in your 31:40 niche. And because construction companies make a lot
of money and there's not a lot of competition, then 31:47 you can literally just help people do that, get leads, and make a ton of money, right? So that's an example of 31:53 how
someone who's passionate about film, photography, tech, filming, editing, how 31:58 they can find their own lane, not necessarily be the best at what they do, but be the best at
what they do in the 32:04 particular niche in order to make money. And literally after I gave them that that advice, I told him to start 32:10 reaching out to people in his space
that he knew. He literally signed his first client making thousands of dollars per 32:16 month on a retainer just helping people like you know edit their videos and posted it on
LinkedIn and stuff, right? 32:22 It's not that hard. You just have to think a little bit and really sit down and use your strategic advantages like I 32:27 kind of been sharing in
this entire video and you know you can't just copy my advantages. You can't copy his 32:33 advantages. You have to look deep within yourself and AI like the way I'm showing you to
find these advantages so that you 32:39 can actually stand out from the rest of the crowd. So, if you made it this far, you probably are super interested in 32:45 building your
personal brand and monetizing and making a full-time living doing it. Which is why I highly, highly, 32:50 highly encourage you to check the link in the description for the free
training to learn how the Founder X program 32:55 works. How we can help you build and attract an audience by creating content and showing you how to take those views, 33:01
monetizing them, and turning into calls so you can sell them over the phone and test out your offers and finally sign 33:07 your first client so that you can be profitable in
building a personal brand. in literally 2 weeks like my buddy 33:12 Brandon. So, if that sounds good to you or interesting at all, check the link in the description to sign up for
the free 33:18 training and if it makes sense, apply to book a call with me and my team. Afterwards, you'll you'll see a little button, there's a nice flow to see if it 33:24 makes
sense to work together. And as a bonus, like I mentioned, we're going to include all the AI prompts that I mentioned in this video. I'm going to 33:30 organize it into a neat
Google Doc template for you to use and copy so you can get started in building your 33:36 personal brand today. Remember, it's all about action. Don't just watch a video and do
nothing. actually do something. Give it a shot because you never know 33:42 how far you can All From Patrick Dang 0:00 Over the past few years, I've built my personal brand to over
$320,000 0:05 subscribers on YouTube. And in the last 18 months alone, my personal brand has generated over $373,000 0:13 in revenue. While everyone else is trying to automate
everything with AI, I was actually using AI to just speed up 0:20 my content creation process. And this actually helped me brainstorm better video ideas. Most content creators 0:26
either completely ignore AI and they just don't use it at all or they try to use AI to literally automate everything. 0:33 But I found this middle ground in between that actually
works. And so today I'm going to be showing you 0:39 exactly how I personally use AI in my content workflow from research to 0:44 scripting to coming up with viral video concepts.
And I'm going to show you the exact prompts that I personally use, how 0:51 AI helped me create some of my most popular videos, and most importantly, I'm going to show you how this
all 0:56 translates into real revenue for my business. So, if you're trying to build a personal brand, but you're struggling 1:02 with content creation or you're spending way too
much time on the scripts, this video is going to change everything for 1:08 you. Now, to begin, we're going to be talking about why most people use AI wrong for personal branding.
So the 1:14 first mistake is that most people think AI will magically do all the work for them. So as an example, let's say 1:19 someone's using Chat GPD for the first time and
they want to write their YouTube scripts. Hey Chat GBT, write me a script about XYZ and done. And they 1:27 just call it a day. And they don't just use the script and say, "Oh, AI
wrote it so it must be good." And then when they 1:32 make the video, they put it out there, it just doesn't work. And why doesn't it work? It's because the content lacks
authenticity. It doesn't feel real. It 1:39 actually feels like an AI wrote it. If everybody has chat GBT and all these other AI tools, then the playing field 1:45 is now even. So
if everyone has the same tools and information, what's going to be happening from this point moving 1:51 forward is that the messenger, the person delivering the idea now becomes
more important than the message itself. 1:58 And this is why every day people are looking for real, authentic people that they can connect with. And they're going 2:03 to connect
with your unique stories, your personality, the things you actually went through. Because if they 2:08 want to learn it by themselves and learn from a robot, they'll go to chat
GBT. But when they want to connect with a person and actually relate to them, 2:15 they're going to go to YouTube and find someone like you. Now, another mistake people make is
that they are failing to use AI as a brainstorming partner. So, 2:22 I've discovered that the way you want to use AI doesn't matter which tool it is, is you want to use it as your
second 2:28 brain, not as a worker. Right? Everyone's saying, "Oh, you got to automate and these agents will write all 2:33 your scripts and analyze all your competitors." The
reality is it can do that, but if it doesn't have that human touch where you're curating the 2:39 different ideas, the output never comes out that good. And all these guys talking
about, oh, I'm using AI to 2:44 automate everything. If you really look at the scripts and the content and things that the output that it's putting out, it's usually not that good
and 2:51 they're just selling you on the idea of just press a couple buttons and make money, right? So, instead of relying 2:56 purely on AI to do all the work, use it as a
brainstorming partner to help you accelerate the ideas that you have, but 3:02 you still want to add your human touch. And I'll tell you a personal story. When I started using
ChatGBT, I was using it to write a lot of my emails in my 3:09 newsletter. They weren't getting the response rates and open rates that I was looking for. So I sent it over to one
of 3:14 my friends who was really good at copyrightiting. And he told me, he's like, "Yeah, you know, these are decent emails, but it literally looks like an 3:20 AI wrote it." And
so now I have to go back and change all of my emails because if it looks like an AI wrote it, people aren't going to read it because it 3:26 doesn't feel personal anymore. And even
if I use AI to write my scripts the same way on YouTube, it's going to feel the exact same way. So instead of just 3:33 relying purely on AI to do the work, now I found this middle
ground where I have to have a seed of idea. I have to have 3:39 taste of like what's cool, what's good, what does the market want right now. So here's how I think of it in a simple
way. AI by itself cannot write good 3:45 content on its own. A human, someone like myself or you, you can, if you put enough time, write a good piece of 3:52 content. The problem
is you can only write so much in a day, right? You have so much energy and so many hours. But 3:57 when you combine AI and a human put together and you keep a standard of quality,
the content is going to be 4:02 good, but the efficiency of being able to generate a bunch of scripts every single day is just so much more faster. 4:08 And that is how I see
people using AI right now. And to show you how all this works, I'm going to dive into my 4:13 personal AI research and ideation process that I use every single day to come up with
YouTube video ideas and the 4:19 scripts themselves. So the first thing we're going to cover is how I actually use AI to find inspiration from inside 4:26 my niche and outside of
my niche, right? And so this is just idea generation. So if you were to use something like chatbt 4:32 and you said, "Hey, give me 10 ideas on personal branding." The ideas are
just going to be mid. They're not going to be that great. It's because right now it it 4:39 still requires a human touch. So what I personally do is I follow a bunch of creators
that I like, whether they're in 4:44 my niche, outside my niche, and when they come up with an interesting idea that I think, "Hey, that's actually different. That's really cool.
What if I 4:51 applied it into my niche, which is personal branding, to stand out? And so, I'll give you a live demonstration on 4:57 how I would do this. So, when I'm generating
ideas using AI, there's really three steps. The first is we want to find an inspired idea. So, I don't 5:04 actually use AI to find the idea. I don't say like, "Hey, give me the
top 10 ideas on personal branding." I feel like 5:10 it doesn't have that taste on what's, you know, the polls on the market. So, what I do is I follow a bunch of creators that I
like, whether it's in or 5:17 outside my niche, and then I get inspired. I see what they're doing. I see their packaging and I'm like, "Okay, that's pretty cool. How do I remix
that 5:23 for my niche?" And then once I remix it, I'll take it to AI and be like, "Hey, this is the idea. Give me 10 new ideas 5:29 and apply to my niche." And I would just run it
through ChatBT. And then once it generates all these ideas, I'm going to pick the best one. And then I'm going to 5:36 create 10 variations of that best idea to see which angle
makes the most sense. So let's give you a live example of how 5:43 I do this every single day. So going into YouTube, one of the channels I really like is called Neighborhood Art
Supply. They're essentially a creative 5:49 agency helping artists blow up, right? So, their niche is kind of like personal branding, marketing, but specifically 5:55 for
musicians, right? So, it doesn't actually compete directly against me. However, the concepts of building a 6:01 personal brand and building an audience, whether it's for music or
for business coaches or consultants, it's really 6:07 similar in that sense, right? And so, because of those similarities and differences, if I go on to his channel 6:12 and see
like, hey, maybe there's some ideas we can take inspiration from. So one idea that caught my attention was 6:18 this one, right? So using a tool called Vid IQ, I can see the
outliers. How much does this perform against its other, you 6:25 know, videos that the person puts out? The video is how to build an audience of millions of fans. So I already
watched 6:30 this video. It was pretty good. So I'm like, okay, I like this idea of building an audience of millions of fans. How do 6:36 I take this concept that works for him,
his whole aesthetic, the vibe, the packaging, everything, title, thumbnail. 6:42 I want to apply it to my niche. I want to help my audience with the same thing. Maybe it's not how
to attract millions 6:48 of people, but maybe hundreds of thousands of people, right? I will give you guys a prompt that I use and you can 6:53 use it for yourself. So, the prompt
is, you are a top tier YouTube strategist who helps creators, coaches, and service 6:58 providers build a personal brand and monetize their skills. Brainstorm 10 YouTube video
ideas based on my ideal 7:05 viewer. Right? So, this is where you input your thing, what I'm selling. So, whether you're coaching, consulting, courses, and what makes me different.
So 7:13 if you have any you know experience that's unique this is where you put it. Also put in the video inspiration. So if 7:18 you paste copy and paste you know the YouTube
links it will find those videos right and then for each idea that it's 7:24 going to give me give me a strong YouTube title and one to two sentences explaining what the video is
about. 7:30 Okay. So basically I'm going to take this fill it in with my information and then I'm going to run it through AI. So 7:36 I went ahead and filled this out already. And
so we're going to focus on 9 to5 employees who want to build a personal brand and make money online. 7:42 right? Which is essentially my niche. So, let's go ahead and enter that
and see what we get. All right, so let's dive into it. So, here are the 10 elite 7:48 tier YouTube video ideas designed for my ideal customer and let's get into it. Right, so
number one, I was stuck in my 7:54 9 to5. Here's how I built a 250K personal brand. Okay, not bad. How to monetize your skills for a personal 8:00 brand. Not super sharp. So, let's
see what other options are. Build your first 10K per month offer. Okay. From 0 to 8:06 100K subscribers. What I do if I start over? That's not bad, right? like AI knows I have, you
know, 300,000 subs. 8:12 So, if I start over, what would I do today? I think this would be interesting for a lot of people. Uh, this is why your content isn't 8:19 growing. I don't
think so. This one's kind of interesting. How to build a personal brand without quitting your job yet, cuz I know for my audience, a lot 8:25 of them have like these really
highpaying jobs. They want to build a personal brand, but they're just like, I don't know how to do both at the same 8:30 time. That actually is a pretty relevant uh point, and it
is an objection I get on my sales calls. So, that is a very 8:37 interesting video idea. So, let's say I want to do this video. I want to help 9-5 employees build a personal brand
8:43 without quitting their job. Cool. And this idea was generated from his video, which doesn't actually have much to do 8:49 with my new video idea, but because I used it as the
base, it basically gave me this idea. So, you see, even when 8:54 you're taking inspiration from other people, sometimes the idea that it generates using AI and your human touch
9:00 creates something new that you maybe wouldn't have thought about by yourself. Now, I'm going to use another prompt, right? So this one is you are a top tier 9:06 YouTube
strategist who help creators, coaches, service providers grow their authority and monetize through content. 9:12 I'm building a content series around this core idea. So I'm going
to copy and paste the core idea here and then based on that brainstorm 10 related YouTube 9:19 videos idea that is either you know going deeper into the main concept solving
connected painoint. So different 9:24 variations of that idea and for each video idea I want you to provide a YouTube title, short explanation of what 9:30 makes it unique,
emotional hooks, thumbnail concepts. So basically the whole packaging for a YouTube video 9:36 right now going to chatbt. I'm going to copy and paste this and fill it out. And
