or help me." Or you need 2:02 to be like, "I'm making you funny." But the funny entertainment level is like has to be as good as what you're competing with. Netflix, what'sever on
2:08 the main screen, whatever else is in the feed. And so brands, it's the same exact [ __ ] but people are starting to nail it. seeing, hey, my skit to unveil my 2:16 clothing
brand is as tight as the most entertaining asset that's on there. Or, hey, how I'm going to present my hotel 2:21 group is I'm going to be the tour guide for Monaco or whatever
they're they're based at, and they're making content around that. So, I think it's like the 2:28 best era ever to actually be trying to compete with a brand story. These TV series
I've been seeing pop up TV series content 2:34 like crazy. I just was telling Costas this a underground artist who maybe had like 15,000 followers on Instagram did 2:40 one of the
coolest releases for a song and it's like their band and they're at like a diner. I don't know if you've maybe I don't know if I've seen that 2:45 maybe you've seen this but
they're so they're at a diner and it feels like it's a movie feels like a movie skit and they're like talking about the concept 2:51 for the song and like why they made the song
basically all these little details and then it turns out that it's like turns into like a music video and 2:56 they're like you know all drumming and stuff and I was like this is
one of the highest pieces of quality content I've seen and it's for a younger artist who's 3:04 just kind of coming up but it's like a TV show. It felt like I was watching a show.
Yeah, cuz that's the bar. But as you guys know it's like cool. You get a 3:09 couple FX3s. Mhm. you get two dudes some light and you like everyone's always like, "Oh, this is so
high production. I can't 3:15 afford this." I'm like, "Man, I want all these shoots where it's like a guy and it's 500 bucks and it's two cameras and 3:20 they can get so much
done." It really is the creative idea and and you're competing against people that have bookmarked so much quality stuff and 3:26 watched so much YouTube and have just nailed it
down. And if you're not operating at that level and you're spending all that extra money, you're like destined to lose. 3:32 It's It's funny too because even with this camera that
we have at the end of the table, this is a Sony FX3. It's four grand, right? That thing can compete 3:39 with some of the biggest, most expensive cameras in the game. And really,
for the most part, no one is going to tell a 3:44 difference from a $60,000 camera. For the most part, like enough difference to make a a matter on the actual algorithm 3:50 or
like when you're actually on the feed because really it's going to be the shot. Like you'll see, okay, we start with an angled down shot or it's wide or 3:55 it's a car mount. You
see, like it's about capturing attention at a minimum bar, not about like the highest 4:00 production wins. What would you say is more important, creative or the actual quality of
the product? I think it's it's 50/50. Like I think Creative vs Content Quality 4:07 everyone's always like, "Oh, which is you can succeed X or Y." And it's like I almost view every
one of these charts, even that value entertainment chart is 4:13 like, cool, you can succeed with just value or just marketing or just entertainment or just product, but then 4:18
you really go viral like with all of them together. One of my favorite anidos is people always talking about how do you get huge on social media? And I'm 4:24 like, all right,
well, there's like a barometer of these different things that really matter. Like, is there value to your content is a huge part of it. Like I look at Nara Smith, like the Tik 4:30
Tocker. It's like, okay, is there value in your content? Is it watchable and as good as television from an entertainment 4:35 value? she's teaching you how to do something. The
like the production, the look is as good. And then also then there's just the like either the another 4:42 chart of like likability and hotness of like the person if men, women,
and and some that doesn't always have to be like you're extremely good-looking, but are 4:48 you charismatic? Do you resonate? And so you get that personality value plus those
other two things. It's like the higher those bars are, the higher your 4:54 ceiling is. She's also in crazy, right? Do you feel like you need something like 4:59 that uh to stand
out? Not only does she need to stand out, but again, all of it elevates, right? Right? And having like a signature style, like 5:05 when you see her, you know she's going to be in
couture, maybe gets a couple extra comments. When you see um like the dude who chops wood all the time, has 5:10 the suspenders, you know it's him. A signature look, but it doesn't
necessarily have to be an expensive look, you know? Uh but it's like, yeah, 5:15 what stands out? What what gets comments? Like what works? But all those things like branding. It's
100% brand. 5:21 The same thing every single day. But can you succeed without those things? Yes. And I always look at like there's just a ceiling. It's like everyone's so obsessed
with I need all 5:26 these things for this to work for my for me or for my brand. Like absolutely not the case. You need those things if you're like, "Oh, I need to be able to 5:32
go from 20 million views a month to 50 million views a month." It's like solve problem one first, right? And get into 5:38 this like new world. What brands would you say are doing
this the best in 2025? Uh there's a brand called Cold Culture brands crushing in 2025 5:44 that I really like that um they're doing like skit-based uh kind of Instagram ads.
They're just killing it. They had 5:50 the one that went really viral where it was like the guy gets thrown up against the wall like he's getting frisked and then they kind of
frisk him and the 5:55 people are inside a window like watching this happen and it's the fit. Okay. And it was just like like and all the all 6:00 their content is like extremely
creative like that and they're a brand that like not a household name, not a whatever. Um but like you can just see like just 6:07 millions of views, millions of views have built
the whole brand off like creative short form video. I think that's excellent. And then someone like House of Errors who I think is like 6:13 taken art direction and like made it
the core of their brand where it's like you want to see the visuals of the campaign. They're telling the story like all all 6:20 around it. It's interesting. Um and the last one
that I use this example a lot for outside of fashion as a fashion brand to reference is Dutes if you've 6:26 seen them. So, they're like a streetear brand that has uh like comedy
creators almost like on their feet. They'll have 6:33 like a guy and a girl. They do skits, but then what they're doing is they're scaling it, which is what like smart brands are
doing where it's like they 6:38 have different accounts. Like they have these different characters, the founders a character, these people doing skits are a character, they have
other people coming in and out account by location 6:44 for where their physical stores are. So, it's like here's the Lisbon account, here's the UK account, we just opened a UK
store. And then the characters like 6:50 interact and overlap with each other in some cases and don't, but that's a world. And I keep looking at like skit-based creation is a great
way to 6:56 sell fashion and they have a lot of like a male female dynamic to the skits which always kind of hits but like that's also an amazing way to sell cosmetics or to 7:02
sell CPG like food stuff and that uh genre hasn't tapped into what they're World Building 7:08 doing at all. You bring up world can we talk about world building a little bit and
how a brand can do that successfully? 7:14 Yeah. Yeah. What the heck does that even mean? Tell people that don't know. They have no idea what world building is. So everyone thinks
like brand content 7:19 like almost linear. Like I'm going to see I have an Instagram account. I have a Tik Tok account. what do I actually say on that? But when you look at a 7:25
world, it's like your brand is really a TV show. And this is like an exercise I do like at brands and done it online where it's like cool, let's actually map 7:31 out your brand
world. And so from a TV show perspective, who are my characters? Like who are the people appearing on 7:36 screen? Like duruits has male creator, female creator, multiple regional
creators, and the CEO as characters. 7:42 They appear in the content. They're there in person on events. They're on the website. They're models and whatever. Those are all people
that are 7:48 part of the brand story, right? Um, and you'll see brands come up with this later. Like, uh, a brand I really like 7:53 is called Kosis. It's a like a skincare makeup
brand. My girlfriend does a brand with them every month. So, their founder became a creator as an 8:00 extension. She wasn't an influencer to start, but then became one because
they knew that that's an important part of like the story was to have someone that 8:07 is aspirational or relatable or whatever the core thing is. Uh, to be able to then tell that
story. That's a character of the brand. In the same way an 8:12 influencer is, right? Your characters extend out. But then you add that to, okay, where's our brand like located?
Like, is there a is it a set? Where do 8:18 we film content? Do we have an office? What's part of this? Our storefronts, the pop-up experiences, that's like the 8:24 world they
interact with physically and people either see online or interact with in the real world. And then there's the like put it on a timeline like 8:29 events of, hey, we have releases,
we have campaigns, we have collaboration, and you get those things up top. And then you add in plot, which is 8:36 basically, okay, what are we announcing? Do we actually have do
we have beef? You know, I always like to call out uh like Brian Johnson, he has a brand strategy 8:42 that positions himself against death. And so it's like he has an enemy, and
the enemy is a huge part of that content, right? Um, and so I think like 8:48 even like Liquid Death, they're positioning against thirst, quote unquote, but really it's a
counterculture positioning. But you kind 8:54 of add those plot lines of like what is the thing we should interact with? What are events that we can create? What are things we can
tap into in monoculture? 8:59 It's a Super Bowl, whatever. And this big cascading thing of influencers and our team members and locations and all that is the brand world. So
anytime 9:06 anyone interacts with it, it's like, does that experience tell your brand story the way you want? And the bigger the world goes, the more people interact 9:11 with it.
And when does world building come into play when building a brand? Is that something you need to think about at the 9:17 very conception of building a brand? I think a lot of
people overthink um what they need to do to start. Like 9:22 starting is to me is really about like product market fit, content market fit u where it's like hey do we have a
product people actually like let's get that into 9:30 people's hands. Content market fits then the exercise of like okay can we make videos or carousels or YouTube or live 9:35
streaming whatever it is that resonates ads with enough people that we can actually sell some stuff. Solve that first and then evolve into a gay brand 9:43 world. I feel like a lot
of people do think you can think about all this from the start, but like should you probably do those first things first and then be 9:49 like, "All right, there's something now.
Let me take this next step probably." Or else you're spending a lot of time on 9:54 something that might not resonate. I feel like it's almost like you're thinking about the really
fun [ __ ] where like when it comes like productivity, 10:00 you're like, "Oh, I want my notebook to be like color coordinated." It's like, well, you're not actually doing the work
100%. 10:06 Who's color coordinated? Yeah. Yeah. No, this is creators are like in the same boat where it's just like, "Oh, I want to do all these 10:11 things. I want to try." It's
like, yeah, get fit, you know, first and then think about your personal narrative. When I think about world building too, 10:17 the first thing that comes to my mind for a creator
is like Casey Neistat back in the day. You had New York as like this playground. Then you had Marlin, 10:24 the UPS driver, and you had his friends that lived in the building and
eventually Peter, what's his name was in there? Yeah, exactly. Exactly. And it was so interesting to 10:30 see like these characters popping into the show and you never knew each
day what we were going to get or who was going to be a part of the problem today 10:35 or like he'd, you know, run into Max's room, Max Joseph would be like upstairs and be like,
"Hey, I need your help like writing this thing." And then it just 10:41 built out into this crazy cast and crew that are all on this show that was the vlog every day. 10:46 And
like I think Instagram niches are and Tik Tok niches are very like that. They're almost like I I've used the metaphor of like the CW before where 10:53 it's like people will cross
over into episodes and it's like cool like marketing Instagram where it's like Ashwin and myself and Beimma and the 10:59 woman like stuff about advertising and Dar Denny and all
these people. It's like when we we all know each other, you all start to overlap and then people kind of feel like oh I'm watching this 11:05 channel. Oh, this is like a crossover
episode with X and Y. Like that's a real good way to look at it. So true. And we've had literally 11:11 comments like that where they're like, "My favorite YouTuber is now like
hanging out with 505 or something." And it's fun to like, you know, to like Tarte Cosmetic brand trips 11:17 merge those worlds together. People think that way. I think the best
example of it, the people I think have crushed it the most with this is Tarte Cosmetics with the cuz they basically 11:23 created reality TV on TikTok and arounding it where it's
like not only like they created Bravo and like that's like the most powerful of TV in my 11:29 opinion is reality TV where it's like, "Hey, we actually we're bringing all these
personalities out. We're putting them on our show. There's competition. There's reality. There's all those 11:35 people posting about their Tarte Island experience." And then
there's the commentary layer. There's the Bravo Andy layer of like here's all these people 11:42 being like this is terrible. Like this is whack. This is other she shouldn't have
said this to her. And I'm like now you've created like literally a reality 11:48 TV ecosystem as a brand and is monetized on Tik Tok shop. It's like affiliate monetized. It's it's
genius. 11:54 God, it's so crazy. I remember during that Tarte trip like even the girls that didn't get the specific the the premiere 12:00 gift, they're making Tik Toks like, "Yo,
I kind of pissed I didn't get the bag. Got the little lip gloss." You know, 12:05 that's selling people, dude. People are going to buy more Target. And then it's just awareness
100%. And then it becomes aspirational to like 12:10 get involved on trip. Like I'll do a free brand new floor tart. Hopefully they see it and then I get invited. Well, then it's
publicity then it's like 12:16 the whole thing of why you want to get on reality TV in the first place. You can do the club walkthrough circuit and it's just like this all this
kind of 12:21 stuff. But we're at the cusp. That's what I love about like a brand like Tarte. I don't know like the extreme details like they weren't like in the 12:27 most amazing
shape as like a brand before this. Goalie is probably a better example. Like goalie was like in huge trouble as a brand. It's a huge Tik Tok 12:34 shop like supplement brand, but
they were like fiscally in huge trouble. Like Tik Tok shop was their like last resort 12:40 essentially and like pulled them out of that and it's just like hey this is such an
opportunity when it's like fringe brands brands that like need to do it or 12:46 really shooting for something special are doing it but then no one everyone else is like still like
behind this 12:52 wave. I feel like there's just still so much more room to go inside this new world. Warren is just been so much game but I 100k Artlist Giveaway 12:57 have a
special announcement for the rocks. Okay, what would you do with $100,000? Now, that is the golden 13:03 question on the day, okay? Because Art List is giving away $100,000 to a
lucky winner out there who has a crazy idea 13:10 that you want to get made. And it's so simple. All you got to do is go to the top link in the description, fill out 13:15 your
idea, send it into them, and they're going to pick one lucky winner, and they're going to give you a $100,000 to go make your wildest idea happen. 13:22 Now, I'm sitting here
thinking, maybe we like podcast Antarctica with that 100K challenge. I don't know. My idea is 13:28 probably not going to be as good as yours. Whatever your idea is, you get one
good idea. That's all you can 13:33 submit. You can't submit 20 ideas and you're going to do it in the top link in the description. I hope one of the rocks comes out with this 100K
challenge and 13:39 maybe, who knows, give me a call. Maybe we'll be a part of it. I'm so stoked though. So, go apply, run, get your best 13:44 idea and let's lock it in. All
right, let's keep it going. How has your Tik Tok been performing as there's been so Value vs Entertainment creators 13:50 many more? I think 26 million videos are getting uploaded
daily to Tik Tok. Like, what have you noticed cuz you crush on 13:55 Instagram? super curious if like you've noticed that maybe it's dipped a little bit or kind of what your
experience has been like. Yeah, so it's all over. So I notic 14:01 there's like there's two there's say three types of like good Tik Tok style creators like one is that people that
14:07 almost like have their own algorithm. Look at like Victoria Paris, uh Chris Hayne, like some of these guy where people were like you watch their videos, 14:13 you get shown
way more of their videos. You're part of their life. Like Leo Skppy, Becca Bloom, where it's like that is a creator where like they are their 14:18 own vortex. People are getting
brought in because they want to spend time with them. And that is like the most best type of creator to be and it es and 14:25 flows based on if that person's like people are still
into that person a year later, two years later in their arc. Uh 14:30 I'm never going to be that person. I know a lot of things. I'm a valuebased creator. People don't care about
me or my life in that same way. they're not 14:36 trying to tune in to me being like, "Here's my new cutlery." Like, not gonna happen. I don't have that vortex. But then there's
like the valuebased creator 14:42 where it's like, "Okay, I see their content. I like it because it's either entertaining or it's valuable." It's like, but I don't really care as
much about them. And so, I'm in that mode 14:48 where your your stuff is way more hit or miss. Not all your videos are going to hit. You're really your your game is like, am I can
I consistently put up at 14:54 least like half of my content getting somewhere like where I want to go. And I'm in that bucket. It's going pretty well, but it's a fight. I fight
way more 15:01 on TikTok to do it than Instagram. And then you have people that are just like, "Hey, I'm uh like I'm just trying to get 15:06 I'm throwing a lot of content out
there and I just want a massive viral hit one out of every 10 or 20, which is a huge amount of creators." That still works. 15:12 You can still like generate your revenue, build
your stuff off that, but you're just hunting for virality. Um, but yeah, Tik Tok is way tougher cuz I'm 15:18 not that like same charismatic type. And also because it's less
lucrative. Like I make way more on Instagram, even YouTube 15:24 now that it's like, "All right, if it's not driving as much business, it's almost an afterthought." And I don't
want to build and be that other type of 15:29 creator. So I've kind got to think of it. But it's funny. People are always complaining about numbers and stuff like I don't know.
Like I'm still putting up like probably a million view video 15:36 roughly every week on like Tik Tok. Like even though a bunch of them will still get 5K and it's like I just look
at like what's that baseline like can can you 15:42 still get hits is really like the metric I look at. I'm so with you. And it's completely changed my approach to Instagram. And
I' 15:48 I've been open about this being like I think if I post 30 times a month or even 40 times a month like I'm seeing so much 15:55 more success than posting once every two
weeks. And like the creator brain in me is like take more time. uh you know you 16:00 know take a deep breath. The business person to me is like [ __ ] volume. Post as many times
as you possibly can. Quality is pretty subjective and most of 16:06 the stuff sucks. Like most people's stuff sucks. So it's like if you just hit a baseline, you have a well-lit
thing. You're saying good stuff. There's 16:13 a higher chance that you actually will hit a triple or a double instead of like these people that are sitting at at home plate.
They're just like waiting for Embracing the flop 16:19 It's also like experimental. People get really caught up um especially people I meet who are like of a similar creator size
to me where they're like, "Hey, 16:25 well I don't want to put out something that flops and obviously flops." And I'm like, "Well, my whole [ __ ] is experimental." Like the whole
reason 16:30 we're here is because I was like I'm going to keep experimenting, keep trying. And like you don't ever get any better. Like people find their one format, their one
video. And a lot of 16:35 people preach this. I'm going to make the same video, find your one thing. That doesn't actually make you interesting. That sets you up for one period of
time and then an end of your 16:41 success. And like if you really want to be interesting, you have to be constantly fishing for what these new things are. You need a couple
formats. Need to be able to adapt to what's 16:47 happening and have people still like you. And so I am constantly like, can I do this type of thing? Can I do that type of thing?
How do I make it my own? 16:52 And like I'll put if I don't have like two flops on the timeline every week, I'm not doing my job. Let's go, baby. Gary talked about that 16:58
literally on our show. He was like, "Most creators, you get something that works. They find a specific format and 17:04 then they beat it till it's dead." And then they're like,
you know, year a year from now, they're like, "Well, I didn't adapt. I didn't try anything new during 17:10 that period of time. I didn't exercise any new type of muscle." And then
when the the success is kind of gone, you're sitting there like, "Okay, well, what do 17:16 I do now?" And I think you're so right. And it's something that like I mean, dude,
that's I preach it to people. Like 17:21 that is what you got to do. You got to be testing and learning and seeing like it's an experiment. I could give a [ __ ] if something gets
like a thousand views. 17:27 I just know now the great data. Won't try that again or try something a little different if I really liked it. You got to give it some shots. That's
17:33 the other thing is people will try one thing and doesn't work and I'm like it's four to six each time. I wouldn't like I really tried to put travel into my 17:38 content. I
was like I need to make travel vlogs. Like travel is going to be a thing for me. Like I want this to work. My first three or four were like didn't work at all but five and six
17:44 started to hit and then now it's like I can put up consistent good content. And that's the other thing. You got to like stick with [ __ ] And that's hard. It's 17:49 your
it's all in your head. Everything for creators and internet [ __ ] is so in brand owners and creators heads. You bring up formats. Can you talk about Formats that win on social
17:56 different formats that people can use on social to see success? Yeah, 100%. Uh, so one one I love on 18:02 TikTok I encourage people to do if you want to yap, basically if
you want to just talk to the camera, nothing else is like what I call a um 18:09 it's just it's basically like a like a strong take like you're going to say I I want like in
absolute you say something. 18:16 Um this guy Christian CB writes copies like the king of this on TikTok where he'll be like blank is the best coffee 18:21 shop in Milwaukee. like
like Tampa is the best city in the [ __ ] south, whatever. And then he'll go justify it. 18:27 You basically get people into this zone where they're like, I really agree with you
or I completely disagree with you. 18:32 And it's easiest to do that like the least nuanced way is to just say one thing in an absolute because no one talks in absolutes anymore.
That's one 18:38 of the things about the content. Everyone's like, I'm too afraid to offend. I don't want to call this good or bad. Who are you to say X or Y? And so everyone's
become neutered. Then when 18:44 you actually hear a strong take and you have a visceral reaction of like, I love this guy or I don't like it. That's what 18:49 makes good content.
So, that's one format I think is um is really really solid and like good to partake in uh 18:55 that almost anyone can work in kind of right away. And then carousels are really hot
right now. I think that's 19:01 going to have like a bit of an ending era because it's content like AI can make and anyone can make it. But this idea that you're going to tell a
story, 19:07 anyone's story, your story, like a hero's journey through a slides is the other easiest one whether it's for your brand or not. But like take your brand 19:13 story or
take your story or take someone else's brand story and literally like type hero's journey into Google and be 19:19 like I'm going to make a slide for every stage of the journey and
I'm going to carry people through that. It's another really easy one if you don't want to be 19:24 on camera. Those have been doing super well for us. But it's going to be I just
feel like since everyone I just watched I know so many people were like I make AI Do carousels still work? 19:30 carousels. I use the same sans safar font. I basically like stopped
posting mine u because I was just like man this 19:36 is really like anyone can do it and you see they'll get the views they get the likes but I look at it's almost like the new
Buzzfeed where it's like hey you scroll through 19:42 these you get your news you get your story but the resonance isn't there none of us had any kinship with BuzzFeed we don't
give a [ __ ] about it it's like any of those news sites puck buzzfeed it's 19:48 like no one actually has any resonance with them they just like will read the content when it
comes in front of them and so it's like I was like cool maybe 19:54 I'll do it I'll put my face on it whatever I'm like no it's still it doesn't matter I'm like there has to be
like that's a format that's like 20:00 completely diluted and it puts up like basically fake views for you. Yeah. Oh, interesting. So, so you don't you don't think that 20:06
they're like just out of curiosity like I have had like my highest performing things have been the carousels and I 20:13 noticed too uh shares, comments like there's so much higher
engagement than so do you still think we need to be you 20:19 know going deeper into I say diversify it like here's the thing is like seven days a week. I look at if it's content
anyone can do it's hard to 20:26 have a moat and so there's early so some of the people that stood out really well early with carousels like like Outlander crushed it with
carousels uh and because 20:33 he had a perspective where it's like here's my perspective on fashion here's a lens it's a lens people want to build a kinship to but now it's
there's so 20:39 much of it out there that you don't you can't really develop your lens because it's just showing up in a feed you probably from so you don't follow the 20:46
person and you're just interacting with it and it's just purely that snippet and so I really like it's literally the news feed for to me and so if you are doing 20:52 something
with it it has to extremely special or it's just going to get ultra saturated like will it exist forever? Can you put up views forever? Can it 20:58 help achieve your objectives?
Sure. Is it what you're going to build a brand around? I think that's way harder. And do you think that is video Why video wins 21:04 specifically? Like is video the thing that
creators and brands need to be pouring? Yeah. Cuz it's like anything with a 21:10 moat, anything where it's like, okay, explain that. Explain the moat theory. So the idea that can
anyone else make 21:16 this, right? Because they will. And then how hard is it? And the harder it is and can they make it like the more time you 21:22 have before it becomes less
saturated, less powerful. And like I look at this like I have people that like clone my content. They use my same concepts, use 21:28 my same hooks, they use my same whatever. And
you can do that for like marketing educational green screen content. You don't need to have my 21:34 background, my history. I have very little. There will be people who are
funnier, hotter, smarter than me who can 21:39 then just basically copy it. And so that had a moat for a certain amount of time, but then it was over. So it's like, all right, what
can't they do now? All right. Well, they can't travel, 21:46 especially the way I travel. like I can go to China and people will bring me to the depths of the where people make the
lab diamonds cuz like I am connected 21:52 like that and I was like all right now I have that eventually people will probably catch up there so what's the next thing with the moat
and so I always 21:58 just look at like even if you do have a carousel what is that production level thing or that valuedriven thing that someone else couldn't just copy with 22:04
text and that's much harder than it is in video you look at the uh the the mode of someone like Becca Bloom where it's 22:10 like she's has such a prosperous she's so rich has all
this stuff no one can catch up with that no one's going to be like oh I can just get there tomorrow 22:15 her mode is They're basically infinite. Have you seen her stuff? No.
Crocodiles in the moat though is what I'm hearing, dude. 22:22 So, Becca Bloom is unbelievably wealthy. Okay. But she makes content that she's 22:27 not trying to like she flaunts
her wealth because it's in her content, but it's not like, 22:32 how would you explain her? Yeah. It's just she's just living such a life of opulence and she's so earnestly trying
to engage you like just about 22:39 normal stuff, you know? Like, hey, I'm making dinner, but I happen to be making dinner with my Christophel egg and like with my cat's caviar.
And but again, 22:46 that's the motive is that no one's no one can go replicate that lifestyle, right? Yeah. That's what I mean, that's also what made like Nar Smith [ __ ] so
crazy. The 22:52 kitchen look crazy. The ingredients are nuts. Say we're going to make licorice from scratch like 22:58 and so you can so again like the mode is super high. Even I
look at like Thor, the wood chopping guy. It's like cool, you got a tree, you got axe, you 23:05 charismatic, it's a lot of things. You got to be yolked. But all those things kind
of add up to that moat. And so I look at like and you 23:10 could have moes around intelligence and formats and cleverness and generalness as well and like unique ideas, but that's
where I feel like carousels has Merging value and entertainment 23:16 the least moat. Do you believe a creator can be both value and entertaining? 100%. I think that's the skill
you kind 23:21 of have to have both. That's where I look at like my biggest series is this product versus brand series I do where I 23:27 identify a category. I'll be like I'm
doing fragrances in like two days where it's like all right, are you buying it because it's worth money? Are you buying 23:32 it because you're buying into the branding? But like I
there's some value there because people have to think critically about marketing and branding and campaigns. But it's entertainment 23:38 because I'm like talking [ __ ] and making
jokes and like that's peak content for me because it's both because people are learning something and they're laughing 23:44 or they're getting angry. And so like so I always look
at like that's like your top of funnel ideally is probably is 23:49 that combination of it. Uh I think also people need to be multiaceted. So many value creators are so focused on
value 23:54 that they don't have a personality and no one cares about you. And I think that's why like my personality is polarized. Not everyone agrees with it 23:59 necessarily,
but it's why I can command a lot more people to an event than like a uh a just a purely valuedriven creator 24:05 because people like assume it's going to be interesting or cool.
If someone is just in that valuebased How to go from value to entertainment content 24:11 content and they want to kind of get into the entertainment space, do you have any tips
for how to kind of merge 24:17 those world? Just do skits. Like I started with skits. I would just whenever I was with another creator, we'd always do a skit. So I did a skit with
Zack Kravitz, who's 24:23 another like very serious creator. Uh and we never done anything funny at all. We like, you know, we just did a like a 24:28 Max for Crack style like skit
about starting a brand. It got like hell of views. Um, but I was like, skits is the easiest way to show people you have 24:34 personality. And I've done skits now with Ashwin. I
like I'm always trying to like find that if something's funny cuz then it's like, okay, these people don't 24:40 take themselves too seriously. You see another side. And skits are
so easy to create cuz they're all format. They're all like, okay, I see this person did 24:46 that. And they make a joke and they look like this at the end and just do it. I mean,
that is what's performed the best for any sort of branded content 24:51 we've done. It's a it's a skit of sorts. I mean, helps that we're just hilarious, right? Yeah. That also
helps just having that to sprinkle in once 24:57 every even it's like once every two weeks like that opens the floodgate cuz then people like oh I kind of want to know a little bit
more about it you know and then then there's like the vlog 25:02 element of like a lot of people like hey my my day in my life isn't that interesting. I'm like that I'm like on [
__ ] Zoom and pacing about angrily on 25:08 the phone like nine hours a day. It's not that exciting. Uh but like if you look at okay well how do I present that and you like but if
I say it like that 25:14 all of a sudden it became funny and it's just like come with me for a day to like pace around nine times like rep four sigs and like be on Zoom you know.
Building in public 25:19 Another format that has gained a lot of popularity is building in public. Yeah. 25:25 Do you feel like it's played out at this point? I do. Okay. I think
you can still succeed. Again, anything has played out. You can still 25:30 have some incredible take on it and do it, but I don't think it's that exciting to consumers anymore. I
feel like two 25:35 years ago, a lot of people wanted to have brands and didn't know how to do it. Now, you see 18,000 creators being 25:41 like, "Here's how you do it. If you if
you wanted to make that jump, like you've got the tools." And so, now I feel like people are like, "Okay, just 25:47 another one of those." So, I think if you do it, it has to be
like a really interesting way. What I don't think is played out around that is like alternative spaces. One of the ones I 25:53 saw blow up blow up recently was a guy starting a
coffee shop and then a guy doing like a burger cart. 25:59 Um where I was like cool this is like untraditional. It's not like I'm starting a clothing brand. I'm starting a drink
company. It's like hey I'm 26:05 building a brick and mortar. Here's how here's the economics of how it works. So I do think it's like the more off thebeaten path it is probably
the more 26:11 interesting it is and you can still succeed with it. But for anyone who's like I'm going to start my clothing brand and build it in public like truly no one cares.
26:17 It's like the beans guy on TikTok. I love that guy's you know what I'm talking about. the UK guy and he's like you he puts like a potato and beans and 26:24 he gives the
first one free every day and he has like a line that's a mile long. You've never seen this guy. It's all POV with like a GoPro chest mount. 26:30 It's that's the crazy part about
this. We would all have seen things we would assume everyone would know that like people at this table just have no idea like that's how wide and vast this this What brands miss
the mark on 26:38 world is. God, you've been able to consult for a lot of brands at like the highest level. Is there something that you find they are 26:44 constantly missing the
mark on when it comes to building a strong brand? Yeah. Well, I think a lot of people just struggling with how fast content moves 26:50 in this new world and like enabling those
teams and then the concept of scale. Like usually what I end up having 26:55 the most conversation with is like, hey, we're we're putting out this content, it's going okay, and now
we're we're trying to make it better. And it's like, 27:01 well, actually really your goal isn't to make it better. Your goal is like you actually need like all these different
accounts, all these different verticals, 27:06 all you need to turn your operation into a media operation. And then that isn't just social. That ties into your 27:12 performance.
It ties into like like a conversation. I have a a chart I use index a lot now that's uh very 27:17 controversial where it's like cool like it's like a circle is ven diagram not
it's a circle it's like marketing and then inside smaller circle content 27:23 budget that's like how everyone thinks about it and then the real answer is like it's a circle and
the circle is content and inside it is advertising of 27:30 the content is like a smaller bubble and if you change your framework to think that way that every single thing you seed
and giveaway is content every how 27:37 you optimize your retail experience for users to be able to film it is content your creators your things in all those 27:42 assets and then
you then run ads on the best performing of that. That is like a a better way. Um, but that's like a 27:48 paradigm shift for like a new a generation of marketers is like not
equipped for it. There's still billions of dollars in 27:54 print in [ __ ] that's out of home for news media journalism. Have you have you tried to read one of these websites
28:00 and read one of these news websites and a popup comes and an interstitial. I'm like this is the worst. You got to subscribe. I'm like dude 28:06 should have been a carousel%.
That's where all that goes, right? And you'll see more and more like people are getting their news from. I'm just I'm Cannes Festival 28:12 just going to scroll a carousel. The
next the next like six to 12 months are going to be very interesting to see if 28:17 they if you know you should do a little thing at can. You need to go up and be like I need to
