man, how am I going to present this to my wife or whoever? And then they just get wrecked. 46:02 Okay? So, you need to really let them know like, look, it's going to be a tough
conversation. Like, you got to like saddle up and like go to war here a 46:11 lot of times. So, and then you can end this whole framework by saying, "Now, let me ask you like which
one of those 46:16 two guys do you think is going to convince his wife." He's like, "Haha, obviously the second one." Okay, great. Because obviously, if you're not certain about
this, she's not going to be 46:22 neither, nor should she be because you're uncertain and you're the lead direction and leader as a man. So, the real question is like when you go
to 46:29 talk to that spouse, which one of those two are you going to be? Are you sure? Because if there's anything else that's keep you from being less than 100% 46:34 certain
that you want to do this, let's cover that cuz I need you to go into this conversation 100% certain. Right? 46:39 So now moving on from this obviously like you're not going to do
this sort of thing like hey there's two ways you 46:45 could go to your board you could go to your board like a complete wimp or you're not going to do that for that even with a
business partner unless it's 46:51 like a toxic relationship where you have some and this happens where you have somebody who's just like totally not on 46:58 board and not on the
same page as one business partner and that business partner is totally complaining and then you have another person who um they 47:05 really want like the lead generation fixed.
Sometimes you got to coach those people. That's tough. Uh generally 47:11 you're going to use something like this for the spouse. Okay? It's a little bit more BTOC, but it gives
you an idea of 47:17 again like you need to create a champion and then coach them on how to have the conversation with whoever they got to 47:23 have the conversation of. Um and
remember there's two outcomes. You coach them on how to set the meeting with you 47:29 or coach them how to actually get permission for the sale. Okay? uh what you pick is going to
depend on the 47:36 belief you have in that champion. So now few caveats. So like for boards uh any 47:41 type of upward mobility where it's a boss or a board just so you know
there's generally an investment amount that's 47:47 okay to where anything above that investment amount needs approved. So what you can actually do and this is 47:53 such an easy
way to close this without it going on to like a three-week process is you just figure out what that is. Do 48:00 a refundable deposit for that amount. get them started, then they
can work on the next week or two to get board 48:05 approval. And honestly, once an object's in motion, it usually stays in motion. They'll almost never refund. So, that's 48:11 a
very, very good way to do that. Um, and then, you know, if like instead of 48:16 refunding too, if like they don't get approval, you could like just give them some SOPs or some
training and then they 48:21 can, you know, that can be what they got for the four grand or whatever their threshold was. Uh, the other thing with 48:27 boards is again, I mean,
it's similar what I already talked about. You really want to just get somebody 100% sold. 48:33 It's much easier to get somebody 100% sold when it's not their money, by the way.
So, get them 100% sold, make them their champion, and then you got to just 48:39 go through this AMB framework. Um, if it's a boss, it's usually general generally best for you to
get involved 48:45 and them to get on the call. If it's a board, they can usually sell the board if they're the CEO. Now, if it's 48:51 downward authority, this is a tricky one
because you'll sleep on this thinking that, oh, they'll be able to convince 48:57 their team, their team works for them. You'd be surprised. Sometimes their team just throws
grenades into everything and 49:03 they have a bad team that's why they need help. So if it's downward authority, the big question to ask is what if they say no? What if they say
49:10 they don't have the bandwidth? What if they say, "Oh, we can just do this ourselves." What if they say, "Oh, I don't think this should be a priority right now." Because
oftentimes that's 49:17 exactly what they're going to say. And what we really want to do is ask these questions, start proddding, and then 49:22 actually have kind of the come to
Jesus that look like if you believe this is the number one constraint in your business, your job as CEO is to 49:29 determine determine what the problem is, what the priority is,
what the vision is, and align everybody to attack that. 49:37 You shouldn't really be going to them and asking for permission. Now, if you want to do that just to get them bought
in, I understand that. That's fine. But 49:44 if they say no, are you prepared to tell them no guys like we are doing this? I'm 49:49 not asking you for permission. I'm asking you
for buyin. So you would be surprised how often because a lot of 49:56 times when they go to their team that's going to be implementing. The team will see it as an attack on how
they're 50:03 currently doing their job. The team's already really busy, has too many priorities, and the team's like, "Oh my 50:08 gosh, this is another thing they're piling on my
plate. They don't think I'm doing a good job. Oh, what if this outside consultant comes in and fires 50:14 me? Um, there's all sorts of things that they're going to like delay and
be like, 50:20 "Oh, no, we can just do it." No, they can't. You would have already done it. You know, it's just like, so it's kind 50:26 of ridiculous, but I'm telling you, these
objections kill deals because like they don't seem like you would think 50:32 that the business owner would just have a sack and like just uh, you know, do it, but they don't.
Okay. Financial 50:39 objections. So this is really anything from I can't afford it. It's too expensive. I can't make this work. I 50:45 can't I got to make it work financially in
2 months. Any financial objection, we handle it the same. Okay. So again, you 50:50 say, "Hey, no problem. Money and everything aside, do you 100% want to do this?" Like, "Do you
feel like this is what you need to get to outcome?" Same 50:55 thing as always. So money aside, you're 100% in. Same thing as out, right? Same 51:01 thing as always. We want to
look for the specific objection or like if they're hesitating, tonality, wishy-washiness, 51:08 we call it out. If it's just the money, which a lot of times with this one, we'll
isolate it. We'll get the double tide on just the money. Then we proceed 51:15 and we'll say, "Hey, look, so most of our clients do it up front for certain clients depending on the
situation, we break it up. So look, are you open to 51:22 having an honest conversation financially, getting everything on the table so we can see if there's a way to make this
work now or at the very least 51:28 will work towards this in the future?" Does that sound good? Okay, they say, "Yeah, that's fine." Got it. So, and let 51:34 me get these three
these three data points. Hey, what's your net incoming cash in the next 30 days? Okay, what's your cash on hand right now exactly? And 51:40 what about credit and access to credit?
Now, when you ask this, here's what's key. If you make it weird, it's going to 51:46 be weird. If you don't make it weird, it's not going to be weird. All right. The reason it's
not going to be weird is because by the time you get to this 51:52 call, there's been one, two, three times they told you they 100% want to do it. 51:58 They just don't know how to
make it work financially. You offered to help them work, make it work financially so that 52:03 they can do something they 100% want to do. There should be no friction here. And
also in the solution, if you pitch that how I teach a course, they've 52:10 already told you that sounds perfect, too. So, they told you they want to do this like five times up to
this point and that they need help. So, if you 52:16 don't make it weird, it's really you're you're just helping them. Now, with cash on hand, sometimes what you have to do 52:22
is you're going to say, "Hey, what's your cash on hand right now?" They're going to say 1K. That's not their cash 52:27 on hand. So, always say, "Hey, I'm not asking what you can
spend right now. I don't even know this if you could do 52:32 this right now. This might not be something you could do. But what I am asking is like what's actually available
because even if we can't do something 52:39 now, I want to make sure you can work towards you have a game plan to work towards this in the future. Because when 52:44 you say cash
on hand, what I'm referring to is what's in your checking account. What I'm not referring to is how much 52:50 you can spend right now. Okay? So, this is very key that they tell
you this just quite frankly. And then credit and all 52:56 this other stuff. If you don't make it weird, it won't be weird. Believe me, I've used this I've used this probably 53:01
three, four, 500 times. I mean, I'm not even kidding. Maybe even more than that. I've used it so many times if you count 53:07 my sales team thousands of times. Thousands and
thousands. Now, once we get all the numbers, then we say, "Hey, 53:14 and you really want to do this, right?" Because obviously at this point, like I want to make sure they really
want to do 53:19 it before I close them cuz I'm going to close them. And they say, "Yes." Okay. Well, look, like I don't think I don't 53:25 think the best thing for you is to do
this all up front if that's going to like zero you out or put you in a financially bad spot. I also think the 53:31 best thing for you based on we talked about earlier is to do
nothing. So what I'd be willing to do for you is let you 53:37 come in for blank down. That way you can come in get X result, Y result, and Z result. And then that way when the
next 53:44 payment comes around 30 days down the line, you already have tons of momentum and it's really at that point just becoming an afterthought. So if I'm 53:51 willing to do
that for you, are you willing to move forward right now? Okay, that's the framework. So again, it's not 53:57 weird unless you make it weird. If you get resistance, like they won't
tell you their finances. They never really wanted 54:02 to do it in the first place. They're not sold. Okay? So, you ended up the reason you got to that place and that happened
54:08 is your tie-downs are weak. If your tie-downs are very strong, you would have they would have actually given you a real specific objection and concern, 54:14 but likely you
you blew the call away long ago. Um, big thing with financial objections, 54:20 don't ask, okay, well, like what's what what payment can you do? Okay, you need to lead them, not
the other way around. 54:27 The only way you can lead them is knowing what actually their financial situation looks like, which is why you have to ask those questions. It's very,
54:33 very key. Um, yeah. And generally, when you offer a payment plan, go to the highest thing 54:39 they you think they can do and always know you can do one lower. Okay? Um,
generally when I offer the first thing, 54:45 I almost think they're probably not going to be able to do it. And then I'll offer the next one lower, but uh that will keep your cash
collection up. And 54:51 then here's the final thing is always make sure when you offer something, you get something in return. So, if I'm 54:56 going to change my terms to a two
pay, I want to get a decision now. That's why I say, if I'm willing to do that for you, 55:02 are you willing to move forward right now? I'm the trading better terms for a decision
right now. Um, let's say they 55:08 say no, we go back and forth and I have to go to a threeay later. Instead of just being like, well, what about a three pay? I'll be like, hey,
if I'm 55:14 willing to do that for you, will you move forward right now and give me a case study when you get amazing results? So, you see how like when I ask for 55:20 something
in return, whatever I'm giving to them has more value. That's it for this training, guys. I see you in the 55:26 next training. All From Cole Gordon Lead generation Watched 0:00
All right, welcome to what might be the most important sales training that you'll ever watch. This is a full master 0:07 class on objection handling. It's not surface level at all.
There's a lot of 0:12 online programs out there that potentially you pay tens of thousands of dollars for just to get access to this 0:19 stuff. This is not scripts that you're
going to memorize. This is the deep work, the psychology, the patterns, the 0:25 frameworks. This ultimately what separates closers that are stuck at 3K a month to the closers that
are doing 20 0:31 30K a month. I've closed 200 million in high ticket sales. I've trained hundreds of closers in this exact methodology. 0:38 And I can tell you with absolute
certainty the way that most sales coaches and most people who are in sales 0:46 handle objections is completely wrong. So here's what we're going to be covering over the next hour.
The things 0:51 to avoid when it comes to objection handling. The four different types of objections. my exact framework that I 0:57 use. Like I used to charge thousands of dollars
just to give this system to people. Deep dives into common 1:03 objections, how to handle it, how to handle things like I need to think about it, the language patterns you need to
look out for, the mindset behind it, 1:10 quite literally everything you could possibly need. This is not a quick tip video. This is not something that you need to scroll through
and try to pick 1:17 certain things. It's essentially everything that I know when it comes to objections. So, if you're serious about 1:23 becoming a master of objection handling,
then at least take some notes. Um, pull up a word document, get a pen and paper, 1:30 because this is going to be literally everything that you need. Look, look how detailed this
sh is. We're going to be 1:36 going through all of this in this video. So, let's start all the way over here because the best place to start is the 1:41 foundations, right? So
before we get into how to actually handle objections, we need to talk about why the way that 1:48 you might be doing it right now might not be working as well as you'd like it to
be because most sales training 1:53 teaches you to memorize like these quick lines. When someone says this, you say this. When they say that, you say that. 1:58 And it makes sense,
right? You want to be prepared. You want to have answers ready. But real conversations don't flow 2:04 like that. When someone says, "I need to think about it." They're not reading
from a script internally. They're 2:09 feeling something. But if you don't handle that the right way and you're just thinking, "Oh, I'll just use this 2:15 script for this
section." They can tell usually to begin with, like how many times have you heard sales coaches say 2:22 things like, "Oh, is that the symptom of the cause?" If something's
expensive, is that the symptom of the call though? 2:27 It's like all people have to do is spend a bit of time on social media now and they probably see every single high ticket
closer do that same objection 2:34 handling remark. And that's going to actually do the opposite effect cuz they just know you're trying to handle their objections. you're going to
lose rapport 2:40 with them. It feels robotic, not authentic, like you're not actually listening, which you're not. You're just 2:45 waiting for your turn to talk. I used to do
this as well, so it's not just you. Um, I'd be on a call and I'd have like a 2:51 list of different objections. So, when I'd get into the objection part of the call, I'd have like
tabs. I need to 2:57 think about it, partner. I need 24 hours. And I click on it and it works sometimes. I'm not saying it doesn't 3:02 work. I'm just saying there's better ways to
do it. And often the difference between like a 10k a month closer and a 3:07 20k a month closer and a 30k, it's small details like this. This is what actually makes a difference
because it allows you 3:14 to close more people, those higher level prospects that a scripted line isn't 3:19 going to work on and they're going to go, "No, I just want to think
about it." And you're going to try some quick line with them and they're going to go, 3:24 "Yeah, I'm still going to think about it." And you're like, "I I could have got that
person." That's where this comes into play. It's that extra 10 or 3:30 20 percent close rate that makes the big difference. Because if you're not addressing what's actually going
on in the head and just reciting lines, then 3:38 it's not going to go super smooth. The big shift for me happened when I stopped trying to like handle objections and 3:45 started
trying to understand them. See, objections aren't people saying no. They're like clues. It's basically 3:51 prospect telling you what's holding them back. But you need to know how
to listen. So, in this master class, I'm not going to give you scripts. I'm 3:56 giving you something better like an internal framework for you to understand what's really behind
every objection and 4:03 how to guide people past their own limitations. This is what separates great closers from good ones. And by the 4:11 end of this video, if you apply
everything that we've gone through, you will be better at handling objections than 99.9% of sales people out there. 4:18 So, let's look at the psychology behind objections here.
The truth is, most objections aren't real. I know that 4:24 sounds weird, but stick with me. When someone says, "I need to think about it." They're not actually saying they 4:29
need more time to process information. When they're saying it's too expensive, they're not always saying they can't afford it. They could be saying a 4:36 multitude of other
things. They might be saying, "I feel uncomfortable right now. I feel scared. I don't feel safe making this decision." But here's why this 4:43 matters. If you try to deal with
that surface level objection, you'll lose the deal. Humans ultimately make decisions 4:50 emotionally, then justify them logically. This isn't new information. Every sales trainer
probably tells you 4:56 this, but most people don't actually understand what that means in practice. It means someone gives you a logical objection like, "I don't have the money.
5:02 I don't have time. I need to speak to my partner." They're not giving you the real reason to begin with. Okay? The real reason is always emotional. 5:09 Objections are windows
into internal conflict. Often, if people are on like high ticket sales calls, they usually 5:15 bought into whatever you're selling like to an extent. They've sat with you over an
hour. They've gone through a sales call. They've probably gone through a 5:21 load of things before they got on the call, but then it's come to the price and these limitations
start creeping in. 5:27 So, this is just um an illustration of essentially what that process looks like. We through through our discovery 5:34 section, we're going to know where
they are. We're going to know where they want to be. We're going to know what the gap is holding them back. So, when we get 5:39 into objections, you're not here to overcome them.
You're here to help resolve the internal conflict by 5:46 shifting the belief that created the objection. You are the guide. So your job isn't to convince them. It's to help 5:52
them see what's really holding them back. And once they see it, once they articulate it, you can give them a different lens to look through it. And 5:59 you can allow them to move
past it. And often it looks like this. You've got the surface objection, which is what they say. Now, this is where most closers 6:06 trip up. They just try and handle the surface
objection. And it it goes bad. Like sometimes you'll capture people 6:12 with some quick lines, but ideally you need to be asking the right questions to understand, okay, what's
the actual 6:18 concern here? Let's get that. But then there is a layer below that. It's the underlying belief behind their concern. 6:25 And if we handle that, we're in even
stronger position. And then a layer below that is who they believe they are. 6:31 If we can handle that aspect of it, that's where you can really crush objections. So there's
essentially four 6:37 layers of objections and the first layer is the smoke screen or what I like to 6:43 call the [ __ ] filter. This is usually the reflective protective
responses. Again, we don't handle smoke 6:50 screens. We don't handle [ __ ] filters. This thing's like, "Can you send me the uh info over email? I'll get 6:55 back to you
tomorrow. I need to think about it." That's not the truth, right? Why is my gifts not playing? Haha, there 7:00 we go. Then we get on to the logical rapper. This is where the like
rational sounding reasons come into play. And 7:07 often this is just logic as armor for what's really going on. But this is where we'll start to get some 7:14 distinction between
what this potential objection is. Is it like fear-based or is it logistical based? So we need to 7:21 this is where we're asking better questions. I'm going to show you exactly how
to do this. But before I show you how to do it, I need you to understand 7:27 it. So the logical rapper often is people saying things like when they have a money objection worrying
that if they 7:33 spend money on this and it doesn't work they feel irresponsible. They believe that resources are scarce and they must 7:40 protect the money. They might feel like
they're not able to manage this on top of everything else. They may feel like 7:45 they need permission from a partner. So your role in this section is to isolate ultimately
whether it's logical, whether 7:51 it's fear-based and get to it. we need to get to the root and if it's not logistical because we deal with 7:58 logistical objections different um
often it's fear and that's basically the emotional truth behind the objection. 8:04 Fear of failure, fear of loss, fear of change. Your role here is to essentially position that
fear. You need to drag it 8:10 out the hat like a magician pulling a rabbit out of a hat. You need to get it up and look at it. Look it in the eye 8:15 because that's not them. But
let's view it as a separate entity and view it as something that's happening to them. And 8:21 then let them choose. Let them choose if they want to continue listening to fear
because it's ultimately what will hold 8:26 them back. And the layer below fear is the identity foundation. This is the 8:32 core beliefs of who they believe they are. Our identity
is our deepest operating system. So this is things like 8:39 people who believe they don't make decisions like this. They believe this is too much money for them and what 8:44
they've spent for the rest of their life because they don't they don't identify with being that sort of person. So our 8:51 job in this section is to help them see that the
decision they're avoiding is actually the decision that their future 8:57 self, the identity that they want would make right now. If they're already earning 100K a month, then a 5K
9:03 investment isn't a lot if it if it gets them further along. So it's allowing them to step into it. So this is a good 9:10 way to look at identity and it's a good way to also
improve the way that you make decisions. Most people think that 9:18 it goes like this. when I have the resources, I'll do the thing and that will make me successful. But real in
9:25 reality, it works backwards. And this isn't common knowledge. This is something that I've discovered way later in my entrepreneurial journey. You to 9:32 begin with have to be
the person. Do what that person would do essentially 9:37 before you are that person. And that's what brings the result. Like you've got to do it backwards because if you do it
9:43 the normal way like when you have the resources you'll do the thing, you'll be successful. You'll never have the resources because you never do the 9:49 thing. So you'll never
be successful. So you'll never have the resources. And it's just this cyclical nature. You've 9:54 got to do it in reverse. Like example, most people believe when they have the
spare money, they'll invest into sales 10:00 coaching and that'll make them better at sales and that'll lead to consistent 20K months. But the fact is to get to 20K 10:07 months,
you have to act like you're that person already. Be resourceful enough to find the capital to invest in the coaching and that allows you to become 10:13 that person. Your role in
objection handling is helping them to be the decision maker before they have all the 10:20 answers. So there are four kinds of objections and let's break them down. The first is
smoke screens. These like I 10:27 mentioned earlier are reflective exits disguised as reasons. But how can you 10:32 spot them? This is important. They're vague. They're flimsy.
There's no reason given. They just want to leave the 10:38 decision. So examples there for you. How how do we handle this? How do we handle a smoke screen? We need to pierce 10:44
through it immediately. We need to create safety, normalize, and ultimately dig for what's real. The second kind of 10:50 objection is logistical objections. These are realworld
constraints. Okay, 10:56 I'll give you an example. Someone really wants to buy whatever you're selling and they don't have the card and they literally don't have it. How are you
11:02 going to sell to them? But there is ways how we can deal with that leg logically to still get the sale, still get some 11:09 form of commitment, right? We deal with logic.
But these are usually very specific. The prospect delivers them 11:14 calmly. They usually say, "No, I I really want to go ahead with this. It's just X Y Z. This I'm traveling for
3 11:20 weeks. I'm in two other programs. Um I've left my card at home. I'm transferring it from my SA savings." 11:26 These are all real logistical objections. Um how we handle
them is acknowledging that that's the reality. 11:32 And then we need to test their commitment through various questioning which again I'm going to show you later in the master
class. But we we want to 11:38 test it by saying things like if XY Z wasn't a factor, just so I'm clear, are we like 100% in on this? Yes. Cool. Then 11:46 thirdly, explore
creative solutions. How can we if someone doesn't have the card right now, do they have Apple Pay? If 11:52 someone needs to transfer from the savings, can we get a deposit from
whatever's in the current account right now, even if it's $50? These are the 11:58 creative solutions how we can actually get some commitment, some decision, but leave the
logistical stuff until later. 12:05 The third type of objection is fear-based. So often these are disguised 12:10 as uh logistical objections, but they're not. How do we spot them?
Hesitation in voice, emotional language. It's usually 12:17 about themselves, not the offer. It's usually vague or they change reasons multiple times. I've tried. They might 12:23
say, I've tried before. These things don't work for me. Um what if I invest in it doesn't work? I'm a bit worried. 12:30 These sort of things. How do we handle it? Normalize the
fear. Separate them from the fear. Make fear the villain in 12:38 the room. Reframe the belief. Help them be the guide and then empower them. This is the difference between closing
12:44 someone and overcoming objections and helping someone make a decision that that they feel happy to make. It's the 12:50 empowerment. And then fourth is hybrid. This is
objections with both logistical 12:56 and fear-based components. So sometimes [clears throat] uh money can be logistical and fear at 13:02 the same time. So can partner, so can
timing. But how we handle it is by isolating the two of them, handling them 13:08 separately. So like for instance, if it was like a money objection, we we could use a phrase like
that. Is it that you 13:14 literally can't afford it right now, or is it more that you're just a bit unsure if you should we need to address the 13:19 root. So there the four
different kinds of objections. I hope you've taken a note of those because these are going to be really important as we as we go 13:26 through. Okay. Now, we're going to look my
framework. This is what I have previously chared thousands of dollars 13:33 to teach sales teams, implement offers, train salespeople, and I'm literally 13:38 giving it away for
free because I want to help as many people get started in this. This is the care framework. It's 13:43 the exact process that I've used to close millions in high ticket sales. It
works for any objection, any industry, 13:49 any offer. And here's how it breaks down. C stands for clarify. A stands for 13:55 ask and isolate. R stands for reframe. E stands for
empower with action. So let me walk you through each step in detail 14:03 and as we go through I'm going to give you real examples, language patterns and frameworks that you can
literally start 14:08 using today. Okay, let's look at C clarify. So the purpose of this aspect 14:15 is to lower the threat response and try to start discovering what's real. The
14:22 the purpose behind this is to get people to feel safe because when you've start asking people for 5K, 10K, 20K, their 14:30 fear response goes super high. And we want to get
them out of that survival 14:35 brain and into their rational thinking brain in back into the emotion because 14:41 if you don't, you're just going to keep getting smoke screens.
They're going to keep saying, "I just want to think about it. I just want to think about it." We 14:46 need to lower that guard here. We need to disarm them completely. There's a
few things we do in the clarifying section, 14:53 but mainly the clarify stands for clarifying their belief in the solution. So, we want them to number one, the most 15:01
important thing, do they believe what we've gone through over the past hour, we'll actually get them to the outcome that they want. If the answer is yes, we 15:08 are on to
something because if they say yeah, that means they they believe it's real. They believe we can help them, but 15:13 there's something holding them back. This this is what we're
going to figure out. But the most important question here is when they have said yes, I do 15:21 believe it can help me. We want to ask why. Why do you feel like this can help you?
Because this will get them out of 15:26 that survival brain and get them back into rational thinking. So we want to remove the sales pressure here as well 15:33 as much as
possible. We want them we want to step into that trusted advisor frame. I want you to think in 15:38 objections. You're like a big brother or a big sister helping someone to make a
difficult decision. Investing in 15:45 yourself is not easy, especially if it's the first time. We're going to normalize the objection in this section as well. 15:50 Like, yeah,
that's not uncommon. Most of our clients feel that exact way before joining our program. We need to create 15:57 permission to be straight up with them because in order for us to
help them, can can we be honest? Can we have an 16:03 honest discussion? And that is clarify. So, throughout that section, hopefully, we're going to gain a lowered guard. 16:09
We're going to get them back into their rational brain. Get them out of survival mode. Get them to confirm they believe 16:15 in the solution and explain the reasons why they
believe in the solution. We want all of those things before we move 16:20 on to the next stage, which is going to be ask and isolate. This is where we're going to ask various
different questions 16:27 to ultimately get to the root of the objection. Because in the previous one, we've only we've often only got the 16:33 surface layer to begin with.
Whether they've said it's too expensive, whether they said I need to think about it, whether they said they need to speak to 16:38 my partner, doesn't matter. We're still going to
keep going to the route. Most people don't even understand what the real objection is, they're just giving 16:45 you whatever the their mind is clinging on to because they've
usually like 80% 16:51 of the time fear response, right? They're just like, "Oh, [ __ ] Need to think about it. Um, yeah, yeah, it need 24 hours. A lot of money, shut down." 16:57
Your job is to help them discover what it potentially is holding them back. And again, be that guide. So there there's 17:04 different isolation techniques we can use just quite
simply asking why you know why is that what's beneath that if 17:10 we solve that problem would that mean that we'd be going ahead like for example a chain here is like I just need
17:17 to think about it it's like what what do you feel like you need to actually go over just so I can see if I can help they reply just to see if it's the right 17:23 time we our
response would be what makes you feel like it might not be boom the objection's going to come out this is 17:30 the sort of questioning that we're going to go down I'm going to
give you lots of examples on this later, but I need to 17:35 understand why you're doing things before just going and doing them because that's probably most people's issues 17:41
already because they're just reading a script. They don't even know why they're doing certain things. This is also the section where we start to figure out 17:46 whether it's
logistical or emotional because we're going to handle them different, right? We're going to hand 17:52 them handle them completely different. Ultimately, your job in this section
is to get them to ask questions that force 17:59 them to articulate what's really going on. And once they say it out loud, then you can address it. But if you do not 18:04 isolate
the real objection, you're just going to be swinging your hands around like you're trying to fight a ghost. 18:10 You're going to be solving the wrong problem. We need to figure
out exactly what it is. Is it logistical? Is it emotional? Because it's only then we can 18:16 move on to the next stage, which is reframe. This is the most powerful part of the
framework. This is where you help 18:21 people to see their situation differently, their beliefs differently, their identity different. This is where 18:27 deals close. But here's
the principle. You're not trying to convince them. you're helping them see what's actually true. I'm going to give you the the 18:33 different reframe principles. I'm going to give
you a lot of examples down here, but let me explain why. To begin with, we're not going to be providing new 18:40 information here. We're going to be providing them a new lens
through which to say the same situation. Reframe 18:47 reframes work because we may expose limiting beliefs as optional. Do they 18:52 really need this fear in their life? Like
what happens if they continue holding on to this fear? Are they going to progress any further than where they 18:59 are right now? What has fear bringing up these limiting beliefs
and saying over the past year while XY Z limiting belief 19:06 has been holding you back from achieving XY Z outcome what do you feel like you've potentially left on the table and
19:14 getting them to look at things through a different lens creating cognitive dissonance with the current pattern of 19:21 behavior and offering an alternative interpretation
that ultimately serves 19:27 them better. Now, I'm going to show you the different ways to reframe. But before we do that, I'm going to show you 19:32 the final the final step. And
this is this is powerful here because we want 19:38 people when they're buying to be in an empowered, excited state. We want them to embody the version of themselves 19:44 that's
capable of deciding. Ultimately, this decision making is an identity act. 19:50 When someone makes a big decision, they're not just choosing action. They're choosing what sort of
person 19:55 they want to be. We're helping them step into the decision. We're not pushing them. You're calling them forward into the version of themselves that's that's 20:02
capable of deciding. And I'm going to give you a really big key here, really big. You want to tie them into the 20:08 decision, not the investment. Obviously, the investment is an
element of it. But 20:13 when we're when we're tying them into this empowerment stage, we're not talking about the investment. We're 20:18 going to talking about the decision to
move forwards, the decision to unlock the skills that are going to lead to 20:24 their XY Z outcome desire. It's not about the money. It's ultimately about them choosing their
future from this 20:31 point on. Using back their language, using back their reasons that they have 20:36 brought up early in the call, their words, and inviting them to step into
the identity that ultimately makes this 20:42 decision. So let's let's take a step back and let's look at the different ways how we can reframe objections. This 20:51 is some key
reframes. Now these are not scripts. These are actual psychological 20:56 constructs of essentially changing the way someone looks at something. These are not scripts. These are
not word 21:02 tracks. I'm giving you real psychological frameworks that actually change people's decisions. The first is 21:10 aspirational identity framing. So when are we going
to use this? This is when we can see that a prospect is making a 21:17 decision from where they are right now instead of where they want to be. Instead of the version of themselves
who 21:23 they've told us throughout the goal they want to become, but they're still making a decision based around who they are 21:28 right now. So we're going to show them the
contrast between who they are right now and who they need to become and and 21:34 bring that to light. An example of doing this would be saying something like, "Which version of
you is ultimately 21:41 making this decision? The one that's been stuck for the past 5 years or the one that's actually living the life that 21:46 you've described?" We are
ultimately challenging um who they are here. And 21:52 it's very hard to move forward in life if you always make the decision based on the person you are right now. You need 21:58
to make decisions based around the person you want to become. And this is a 22:04 belief you should hold as a closer. This comes down to congruence and and acting 22:09 like the
person you are advising people to become. It's a hell of a lot easier if you are also that person. And we're 22:16 going to challenge them from a state of believing where they are
the current 22:22 patterns and behaviors um to I can actually choose who I become through making the right decisions. Second way 22:28 of handling and reframing objections is fear
exposure. This is where we're going to separate fear from them and make it 22:35 the villain in the room. We're not attacking them. We're not saying you're scared. We're saying
this is fear. Hello, Mr. Fear. Let's handle this 22:41 together because that [ __ ] right there is holding you back from your dreams. So, you're going to keep letting 22:46 it.
Separate it. People believe that fear is protecting them. But we're actually showing them that the fear is 22:51 holding them back from the version they want to become. Different
ways we can do this. Just understand it and then let 22:57 the let the handling come out of you naturally. That's how the best people at handling objections handle them. Not 23:02
with fancy word tracks, with real understanding and just handle objections by speaking ultimately like words that 23:10 are theirs, not [snorts] scripted. And you'll know which one
