customers. They take abstract claims—"We improve efficiency!"—and turn them into concrete examples, complete with data and a compelling narrative. They help businesses showcase
their expertise, build trust, and nudge potential customers toward a decision by showing real-world success stories. Plus, they're marketing gold: a well-crafted case study can be
repurposed into blog posts, sales materials, and even presentations. Related reading: How to make your case studies high-stakes—and why it matters How experts write case studies
that convert, not bore How to make customer marketing a priority Examples of corporate social responsibility done right This article was originally published in January 2024. The
most recent update, with contributions from Allisa Boulette and Jessica Lau, was in September 2025. Get productivity tips delivered straight to your inbox Subscribe We’ll email you
1-3 times per week—and never share your information. Hachem Ramki picture Hachem Ramki Hachem is a writer and digital marketer from Montreal. After graduating with a degree in
English, Hachem spent seven years traveling around the world before moving to Canada. When he's not writing, he enjoys Basketball, Dungeons and Dragons, and playing music for
friends and family. Tags Marketing Content marketing Related articles The Jasper logo connected to logos for Google Docs, Buffer, and Shopify Automation inspiration 4 ways to
automate Jasper with Zapier An orange icon of a laptop and microphone against a lavender background Zapier tutorials Automatically create audio versions of your blog posts A hero
image of the Anthropic Claude app logo connected to other app logos on a light blue background. Automation inspiration 7 ways to automate Claude with Zapier An orange icon of a web
browser against a lime green background Zapier tutorials How to create a Reddit content idea bot with Zapier Agents An icon of a video with a fire emoji over it against a lavender
background Zapier tutorials How to automate viral content creation with Zapier Agents Hero image with the logos of the best AI grammar checkers Best apps The 6 best grammar
checkers Hero image with an icon representing content marketing Marketing tips What is gated content? Examples and best practices A hero image with an icon representing AI writing
Marketing tips 8 ways to make your content stand out in the AI writing wave Improve your productivity automatically. Use Zapier to get your apps working together. Sign up See how
Zapier works A Zap with the trigger 'When I get a new lead from Facebook,' and the action 'Notify my team in Slack' Follow us Pricing Help Developer Platform Press Jobs Enterprise
Templates App Integrations Partners Program © 2026 Zapier Inc. Manage cookies Legal Privacy Skip to main content How do you structure your case studies? : r/agency r/agency Sign Up
Log In Expand user menu Skip to Navigation Skip to Right Sidebar Back Go to agency r/agency • 2y ago nectar_agency How do you structure your case studies? Do you use actual
screenshots of analytics results and or creative? Or is that the clients IP? How many pages are they usually? I'm looking to develop some case studies around digital campaigns I've
developed and implemented but not surr where to start. Do you also mention the business name or leave it a little generic? I have one client I worked with for 6 years so there were
multiple angles of work that I'm proud of but I don't want it to seem like that is the only client I've worked with - even though I was contracted with them full time for a couple
of years. 4 · 15 u/TsengCollegeCSUN avatar TsengCollegeCSUN • Promoted Deep knowledge and flexible skills for a fast-changing world: CSUN’s 100% online M.A. in Humanities. Apply
Now go.csun.edu Thumbnail image: Deep knowledge and flexible skills for a fast-changing world: CSUN’s 100% online M.A. in Humanities. Comments Section doubleohd • 2y ago OP, this
is a great question. We make different case studies for different purposes. We have short ones that are less than a page printed that we use to show we've done X in Y vertical that
is generic and doesn't mention company names. We have lead magnet case studies that are longer form and show how we dealt with challenging situations that have a narrative and go
into extensive detail. We only showcase the problem and the start of the solution before fading the content behind a soft "paywall" where people need to provide their email to read
the rest. We have longer form case studies we use in proposals where it makes sense that will include testimonials and client quotes. In these we include client names, contact
names, and contact info (witch client permission) We're tinkering with the idea of doing a video case study similar to a news report or dateline piece, but haven't gotten around to
that level of production Formats are pretty standard: Establish background Identify problem Insert us as hero and an overview on our solution Show how the solution led to solving
the problem and happy stats (yes, add screenshots) End with client quote/testimonial about how amazing we were We've incorporated into our launch processes / project completion to
include a project debrief that acts as a first-draft to a case study write-up. That way the people involved can write details while the memory is fresh. Regarding screenshots:
Don't just copy/paste it in. Format it to look nice and part of the doc. 4 ElPesimista • 1mo ago Mind if I have a look at any of them for reference? 1 notyourbroguy • 2y ago Follow
up question, does anyone ever actually read the case studies you guys have made? 2 doubleohd • 2y ago No. Very few will actually read case studies unless it's a client they are
directly familiar with. They just want to know you have them and went through the trouble of making them. 4 notyourbroguy • 2y ago I honestly don't think prospects could care any
less about a case study, hence my question. When they ask for it I think it tends to be more of a polite rejection of your offer. "Oh yeah this sounds great send me a case study!"
when they really aren't convinced and have no plans of reviewing anything. 1 1 more reply [deleted] • 2y ago Intro - Initial challenge - Solution - Achievements And yes,
screenshots! 2 Si-Certo • 2y ago you need more than the one client of course - you can't just show one for the reasons you've mentioned. But each one should have the client's
permission, and really it needs their testimonial. Talk about what their problem was when they came to you, how you solved it, and where they are now. If you use Case Studies do
3-5 of them with each one solving a different problem. 1 u/hyperagentapp avatar u/hyperagentapp • Promoted 42 agents. 216 threads. One dashboard. Deploy specialized agents across
your company — each with its own prompt, tools, skills, and budget. Managed from one command center. Made by the team at Airtable. Sign Up hyperagent.com Thumbnail image: 42
agents. 216 threads. One dashboard. Deploy specialized agents across your company — each with its own prompt, tools, skills, and budget. Managed from one command center. Made by
the team at Airtable. u/penji-official avatar penji-official • 2y ago It's always best to get permission from your clients before you use any of their assets (name, logo, etc.),
but I recommend you try. Few prospective clients will read the case studies, but many will scan your case study page and look at the names and logos. You can definitely get away
with having multiple case studies from the same client, but try to balance it out with at least a 70/30 split of that client vs other clients' work. An in-depth case study can look
impressive, but a simple landing page can be just as effective. Highlight results and data. Make it look impressive at a glance. 1 canuck-dirk • 2y ago Short description, a little
humour (which follows the main site feel) and a few good screenshots. Short, sweet and to the point. No one is scrolling down a long case study page. 1 u/JourneyTo1Percent avatar
JourneyTo1Percent • 1y ago I developed a tool for this! It’s called Instant Case Study. It’ll generate a professional case study in a minute from just a couple bullet points. 0
[deleted] • 1y ago New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue with Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User
Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. People also ask about section People also ask about Structuring digital marketing case studies Writing effective
marketing case studies Building a case study for digital campaigns Selecting a performance agency tips Choosing a branding agency advice Why Build a Giant Model When You Can
Orchestrate Experts? r/AIAGENTSNEWS • 6mo ago Why Build a Giant Model When You Can Orchestrate Experts? r/AIAGENTSNEWS - Why Build a Giant Model When You Can Orchestrate Experts? 2
29 upvotes · 7 comments u/Aware-Feedback-6576 avatar Aware-Feedback-6576 • Promoted 4 ad platforms. 4 CPAs. 1 conversation. See which platform is actually performing. Thumbnail
image: 4 ad platforms. 4 CPAs. 1 conversation. See which platform is actually performing. campaignagents.ai What is everyone working on?? r/saasbuild • 10d ago What is everyone
working on?? 54 upvotes · 125 comments Are Starter Story success stories realistic or overly polished? r/saasbuild • 7mo ago Are Starter Story success stories realistic or overly
polished? 8 upvotes · 8 comments Saturday is for building startups r/StartupSoloFounder • 4mo ago Saturday is for building startups r/StartupSoloFounder - Saturday is for building
startups 58 upvotes · 21 comments What is your start-up/Product ? r/devworld • 1mo ago What is your start-up/Product ? 24 upvotes · 76 comments How to Write a Case Study? A
Step-By-Step Guide to Writing a Case Study r/YouTubeViewsSubs • 3y ago How to Write a Case Study? A Step-By-Step Guide to Writing a Case Study r/YouTubeViewsSubs - How to Write a
Case Study? A Step-By-Step Guide to Writing a Case Study youtube 1 upvote · 1 comment I thought more supplier lists meant more opportunities. I was wrong. r/b2b_sales • 17d ago I
thought more supplier lists meant more opportunities. I was wrong. 6 upvotes · 16 comments Its Monday! What are you building? r/saasbuild • 6mo ago Its Monday! What are you
building? 32 upvotes · 64 comments How do you recruit to your startup? r/StartupsHelpStartups • 23d ago How do you recruit to your startup? 7 upvotes · 31 comments What are you
building this Monday? (I’m a VC investor) r/saasbuild • 3mo ago What are you building this Monday? (I’m a VC investor) 28 upvotes · 82 comments What are you building? Share your
product. r/saasbuild • 3mo ago What are you building? Share your product. 28 upvotes · 96 comments Things that worked for our GEO/AI visibility strategy r/aeo • 7d ago Things that
worked for our GEO/AI visibility strategy 5 upvotes · 19 comments What Startup are you building? Share to help startups 💯 r/StartupsHelpStartups • 4mo ago What Startup are you
building? Share to help startups 💯 30 upvotes · 130 comments Agency Metrics - What numbers do you run your business on? r/agency • 4y ago Agency Metrics - What numbers do you run
your business on? 4 upvotes · 9 comments How to get a rental in Perth, from a Landlord r/perth • 3y ago How to get a rental in Perth, from a Landlord 130 upvotes · 460 comments
What are some of your favorite marketing case studies? r/marketing • 5y ago What are some of your favorite marketing case studies? 57 upvotes · 34 comments How do you build a
portfolio when all of your work is owned by your employers? r/marketing • 3mo ago How do you build a portfolio when all of your work is owned by your employers? 54 upvotes · 45
comments Best case study templates - any suggestions? r/consulting • 6y ago Best case study templates - any suggestions? 2 upvotes · 1 comment Need Business help :( r/agency • 18d
ago Need Business help :( 21 upvotes · 50 comments What's the Best Case Study You've Read? r/agency • 1y ago What's the Best Case Study You've Read? 8 upvotes · 7 comments What are
you building right now? And how do you validate your idea? r/SideProject • 17d ago What are you building right now? And how do you validate your idea? 3 upvotes · 59 comments Case
study template recos r/UXDesign • 2y ago Case study template recos 3 comments What actually drives startup product success r/indiehackers • 22d ago What actually drives startup
product success 26 upvotes · 102 comments How do you write your experience on your CV? r/consulting • 2y ago How do you write your experience on your CV? 3 upvotes · 5 comments
Business Case Analysis | Newbie r/MBA • 8y ago Business Case Analysis | Newbie 2 upvotes · 7 comments VIEW POST IN 繁體中文 Русский See more Community Info Section r/agency Join
r/agency This is a community for agency owners and freelancers in the digital marketing space by agency owners. Help us make this community the go-to resource for peer-to-peer
agency growth and connections! Show more Public TOP POSTS Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 25, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2024
Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Home Popular News Explore RECENT r/mcp
RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Developer Platform Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Best of Reddit Best of Reddit in Portuguese Best of Reddit in German Reddit Rules
Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Campaign Creators - logo in dark blue and transparent background HubSpot
Services Our Agency Resources Insights LET’S TALK 6 MIN READ 3 Simple Steps to the Perfect Case Study Format Picture of Sean Farias Sean Farias : 11/08/18 Marketing Lead Nurturing
3 Simple Steps to the Perfect Case Study Format If you're a business owner, you know that case studies are a vital part of client attraction. Not only do case studies allow you to
showcase projects, but they also give your company a chance to reflect on things that have been done right (or possibly, not-that-right) and decide where you can improve for future
projects. But, what is a case study? In business, a case study is a way to conduct marketing analysis. A case study helps identify concerns and solutions in specific markets. Once
aware of case study concerns and solutions, a business can resolve related internal or external affairs, and even promote their findings. The idea for this blog originated when I
myself was on a mission to create an impactful case study format for an inbound marketing client. Even though there are plenty of case study templates available, it was still a
challenge to find one that would stand out from the rest -- or at least provide a structure to deliver better quality information. Eventually, I got to the point where I wondered
how hard it would be to simply imagine a case study format of my own. So, after a bit of contemplation and careful consideration, I realized that a proper case study consists of
three simple things: Lots of research and planning; Your strategic plan of execution; and How you present that information. Let's breakdown each of these three steps. Step 1 -
Research and Planning The goal of the research and planning phase of the perfect case study format is to ensure that you're prepared and asking the right questions to solve for
your case study hypothesis. It also ensures that the workflow you'll be following when conducting the case study is optimized and organized. Once you solidify a strong foundation
of research, you then must make your findings concrete by organizing them on paper. You can also use tools to aid you in your case study, including: campaign templates, marketing
project plans, flow charts and interview questions. It's up to you to discover how much of each of these to produce and how necessary they are to your specific case study. Ideally,
employing these tools will help guide your team and your client, or clients, to success. From my experience, the better the documentation, the better the end result will be. Let me
elaborate on each of the tools I suggested, what they are and how they'll help you begin planning your case study. What is a campaign template? A campaign template provides you
with a step-by-step, organized plan to set goals for your case study, identify your target buyer persona, ensure you're clear in your message, and revalue which marketing channels
are best for your case study. A campaign template is built by answering questions that solve for each of these measures, so make sure you're asking yourself the right questions, in
order to have the best tool for your case study. What is a Project Plan? Depending on how detailed you'd like to get with your project plan, it can physically detail the why, what,
who and when of a case study, which all basically give your case study meaning or life. Like a campaign template, project plans are a basis for beginning your case study, providing
you a formatted layout for it either through a digital or non-digital document. What is a flow chart? We talked about how to create a better marketing automation workflow in a
previous blog post, which uses the same principles as a flow chart. Some of those same principles include: Mapping out your strategy, whether it be a marketing campaign or case
study; Flow charts and workflows both operate on the basis of triggered events; and Both flow chart templates and workflows can be constructed within HubSpot. Crafting a flow chart
includes knowing the basic effect each action will produce. It is a defined plan of choices. Say, action A takes place, then actions B or C can occur, and when they occur, action D
will then take place, and so on and so forth. It's, of course, up to you how you craft your flow chart, but if you've done your research, the steps which each action of your case
study takes, will be more defined. How to craft great interview questions? Although this blog post heavily compares how your website's homepage is like a job interview, I think
point #4 hits home about why crafting great interview questions is important. “Make sure to give your visitor a vehicle to enter into deeper conversation with you.” This itself is
a vehicle for better understanding the target audience of your case study. You'll want to know as much information about them as possible in order to know how their answers to your
questions will impact the results of your case study. Step 2 – Strategic Execution Now, let's move onto the second step for following the perfect case study format. First, though,
I'd like to say that each stage will be as important as the last. Typically, ideas are nice in theory, but theory is just that - abstract and not yet concrete. So, unless you have
the ability to see them through, they will go unnoticed. To ensure that your plan comes to life, begin surveying, interviewing and conducting workshop with your leads, customers
and those that emulate your targeted buyer personas. So that your case study's execution goes flawlessly, work from the core plan that you built in Step 1: Research and Planning.
Next, I like to review key ideas when building a case study, which include: challenges, solutions, key statistics, candid analysis & response, and notable achievements. Allow me to
elaborate on the relationship and significance each of these concepts embody within your case study. Identifying Challenges Identify challenges that debilitate the progress of your
case study; otherwise, any efforts you make will surely be for loss. Take into account challenges already established within the market of your case study; challenges that may
arise with, specifically, your case study; and even challenges that may occur because of nuance changes you've made to your case study during its progression. Examples of case
study challenges could include: Getting different results than what you hypothesized and having to rework your case study process accordingly; Getting your target audience to
participate willingly, if not enthusiastically; and Choosing the right timeframe in which your case study is conducted. Identifying Solutions Why should you identify challenges if
you aren't going to identify solutions to those challenges? Finding solutions will reassure that the case study has substance to it, that the results you come across won't just
fall through. Identifying Key Statistics Key statistics are the data that you'll acquire while executing your case study. How you identify which data can be considered relevant and
key for your case study depends on the relationship that that data shares with the case study itself. Is the data relevant? Does it answer particular queries or questions prompted
by your case study? Does it disprove or prove the answer you sought out to find when you first established your case study? Key statistics, ultimately, are great to display as part
of your case study results for those your company wishes to engage with. Acknowledging both candid analysis and response I talked a little about this in the identifying solutions
section, however, let me put just a bit more emphasis on it. Not acknowledging candid analysis and response can be like when you're about to do something really dumb, and everyone
is telling you not to, but you just do it anyway. Avoid that. Rather, incorporate candid analysis in your case study methodology by, for example, looking at the performance of an
email that you send out to your target audience. With the email outreach, you have the option of choosing text or html formatting. You can perform A/B testing to see which format
performs better, and then, by analyzing your results in a candid manner, you can simply use the better performing one for future emails. Considering notable achievements Don't be
afraid to celebrate when you've come across results that are fantastic. It isn't so much that you're flaunting the expertise shown by your case study, rather you're providing the
audience that will see your results with a firmer basis for why your company is the gold standard in its market. Even before publishing your results, notable achievements might
present a turning point for your case study - depending on what you find. Maybe even follow the path that reveals itself to uncover other notable achievements. Step 3 –
Presentation of Information The last step for a perfect case study format is to present your information in a clear and concise manner. Case studies are one of the best
business-to-business (B2B) tools out there. They are relatable, tangible, and (hopefully) well-organized. They are representations of what it is like to work with a company like
yours. However, if you only stop at identifying and solving for the case study, you're still missing out. Take advantage of what you learned and market it! Get your case studies
designed, printed, framed, digitized, distributed, or bound and they will continue to serve you through various marketing channels. Where you distribute this information depends
largely on your target audience or persona (some of my favorite favorite channels are: Pinterest, Slideshare, YouTube, Reddit, LinkedIn). As a final tip— when you go to create your
case studies, remember that the best path is not to talk solely about your company and the great things that it has done. Rather, put yourself in the client’s shoes and try to
envision what their perceived experience was, and how to best turn that into a story that is both intriguing and makes sense. Want to start building your own case studies? Then get
into the mind of your buyer persona's with your free workbook: How to Create Buyer Persona's for Your Business. GET PERSONA WORKBOOK Share Making an Impact with Inbound Marketing:
SD Inbound Adds 1k Contacts Making an Impact with Inbound Marketing: SD Inbound Adds 1k Contacts Picture of Campaign Creators Campaign Creators : 07/31/17 The San Diego HubSpot
User Group had been running educational events focused on the HubSpot platform for 2 years before Campaign Creators became a... Lead Generation Content Lead Nurturing Read More
Don’t Panic - Here’s What to Do If Lead Nurturing Stalls Don’t Panic - Here’s What to Do If Lead Nurturing Stalls Picture of Campaign Creators Campaign Creators : 12/19/24 In
marketing and sales, the term "lead nurturing" is essential. Lead nurturing refers to developing and maintaining relationships with potential... Marketing Lead Generation Lead
Nurturing Read More How Do You Use Feedback to Provide a Better Customer Experience? 1 MIN READ How Do You Use Feedback to Provide a Better Customer Experience? Picture of Daniel
Loest Daniel Loest : 03/29/19 How does feedback play a part in providing a better customer experience? Why is this question itself important? It isn't that getting customer...
Marketing Conversion Rate Optimization AI Lead Nurturing Read More Lead Generation Web Design & Development Search Engine Optimization (SEO) Conversion Rate Optimization Lead
Generation Strategies Lead Nurturing Lead Nurturing Campaigns B2B Marketing Ecommerce Marketing HubSpot Service Hub Technology Strategy Technology Consulting HubSpot Onboarding and
Setup HubSpot Data Migration HubSpot Integration Development Klaviyo Onboarding and Setup HubSpot Management HubDesk HubSpot Support HubSpot Implementation HubSpot Training HubSpot
Change Management Company About Us Careers Contact Us Resources Blog Case Studies Other Services If you are looking for software, apps, and or branding... check out our sister
company Deep Root Digital. elite-badge-color 1 © 2026 Campaign Creators All Rights Reserved. info@campaigncreators.com (858) 633-1915 Skip to main content Home Main navigation
SERVICES APA & ACADEMIC INTEGRITY WRITING BASICS USING AI WRITING TYPES TOOLS SEARCH Writing a Case Study Analysis A case study analysis requires you to investigate a business
problem, examine the alternative solutions, and propose the most effective solution using supporting evidence. Preparing the Case Before you begin writing, follow these guidelines
to help you prepare and understand the case study: Read and Examine the Case Thoroughly Take notes, highlight relevant facts, underline key problems. Focus Your Analysis Identify
two to five key problems. Why do they exist? How do they impact the organization? Who is responsible for them? Uncover Possible Solutions/Changes Needed Review course readings,
discussions, outside research, your experience. Select the Best Solution Consider strong supporting evidence, pros, and cons. Is this solution realistic? Drafting the Case Once you
have gathered the necessary information, a draft of your analysis should include these general sections, but these may differ depending on your assignment directions or your
specific case study: Introduction Identify the key problems and issues in the case study. Formulate and include a thesis statement, summarizing the outcome of your analysis in 1–2
sentences. Background Set the scene: background information, relevant facts, and the most important issues. Demonstrate that you have researched the problems in this case study.
Evaluation of the Case Outline the various pieces of the case study that you are focusing on. Evaluate these pieces by discussing what is working and what is not working. State why
these parts of the case study are or are not working well. Proposed Solution/Changes Provide specific and realistic solution(s) or changes needed. Explain why this solution was
chosen. Support this solution with solid evidence, such as: Concepts from class (text readings, discussions, lectures) Outside research Personal experience (anecdotes)
Recommendations Determine and discuss specific strategies for accomplishing the proposed solution. If applicable, recommend further action to resolve some of the issues. What
should be done and who should do it? Finalizing the Case After you have composed the first draft of your case study analysis, read through it to check for any gaps or
inconsistencies in content or structure: Is your thesis statement clear and direct? Have you provided solid evidence? Is any component from the analysis missing? When you make the
necessary revisions, proofread and edit your analysis before submitting the final draft. View a Sample Sample icon Sample Case Study Analysis Still Confused? Please reach out to
your instructor or email the Writing Center for assistance! Main navigation SERVICES Tour the Writing Center Student Services Grammarly 24/7 Writing Tutoring Paper Review Faculty
Services About Us APA & ACADEMIC INTEGRITY APA Style Academic Integrity Guide Plagiarism Guide WRITING BASICS Writing Skills Refresher Understanding Your Assignment Writing a Paper
Writing a Thesis Statement Quoting, Paraphrasing, & Summarizing Grammar & Punctuation USING AI Comprehensive AI Guide Academic Use of AI Infographic Asking or Prompting AI
Verifying Information & Sources from AI Maintaining Originality When Collaborating with AI Disclosing & Citing AI Using AI as a Tutor or Paper Reviewer WRITING TYPES Writing a
Discussion Board Post Annotated Bibliography Presentations Graduate & Doctoral Writing Other TOOLS Thesis Generator Grammarly RefWorks Quick Cite Practice Quizzes Video Tutorials
FAQ/Troubleshooting Site Map Search © 2025 UAGC This site by University of Arizona Global Campus Writing Center is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-4.0 International
License. Creative Commons Image Bottom Sticky Links QuickAnswers FAQ Venngage Infographics Product AI Templates Learn Pricing Log in Sign up for free Infographics AI & Design
Accessibility Marketing Business Communication Graphic Design More Home Blog Marketing Case Study Examples: Types, Format, and How to Write Case Study Examples: Types, Format, and
How to Write Written By Alice Corner Updated: May 25, 2026 Venngage case study examples Most case studies follow the Challenge → Solution → Results template, and on paper that
makes sense. The problem is what happens in the reader’s head. They see the logo, the industry, the company size, and think my business isn’t like that one, and the case study is
over before it started. That’s why you need to set the narrative and make sure the case study reads like a story, so the reader stops looking at how different your customer is and
starts seeing the parts of the situation that match their own. In this article, I’ll share case study examples and templates you can refer to, and break down what makes each one
work. Wondering how to craft a compelling case study? No worries—I’ve got you covered with 15 marketing case study templates, helpful tips, and examples to ensure your case study
converts effectively. START CREATING FOR FREE What is a case study? A case study is a structured analysis of a specific subject, problem, approach, and outcome. It’s not just an
example or a story on a page. It breaks down what someone was dealing with, what they did, and what happened as a result. In academic settings, that might be a historical event, a
medical case, or a research finding. In business, case studies take customer success stories and show how a company used your product to hit their goals. Whatever the type, a good
case study includes: Background: Who the subject is and their situation before Problem or research question: What they were trying to solve Method or solution: The approach they
took Results: What changed, with specifics Takeaway: What others can learn from it Case Study Definition LinkedIn Post CREATE THIS TEMPLATE As well as being valuable marketing
tools, case studies are a good way to evaluate your product as it allows you to objectively examine how others are using it. It’s also a good way to interview your customers about
why they work with you. Once you’ve proven your value, the logical next step is pitching a similar solution to new prospects. Venngage AI makes it easy to explore writing proposals
with ai by turning a success story into a tailored client pitch using a simple prompt. Much like how Jasper streamlines content drafting, Venngage’s AI for proposal creation
ensures your track record is instantly transformed into a professional, winnable bid. Related: 6 Types of Case Studies Case study examples by type Case studies show how businesses
tackle challenges and achieve success, from streamlining operations to boosting marketing engagement or closing sales. In this section, we’ll look at examples from business,
marketing and sales to show how these industries use case studies to share what’s effective and drive results. Business case study examples Whether you’re a B2B or B2C company,
case studies can be a valuable tool for sales, marketing, and even internal training. A strong business case study should include strategic insights along with real-world examples
and qualitative findings, like the ones below. Conduct a B2B case study by researching the company holistically When writing a case study, take a holistic approach by analyzing
everything from social media to sales. Consider how your product or service has impacted the company’s broader goals and ask for insights on its effects. Many businesses use case
study writing services to ensure high-quality, engaging content that resonates with their audience. A well-researched case study, like the example above, uses visual elements—such
as social media and communication icons—to highlight key insights. This format also works well for annual or end-of-year reports. Venngage orange marketing case study example
CUSTOMIZE THIS CASE STUDY TEMPLATE Highlight the key takeaway from your marketing case study To create a compelling case study, identify the key takeaways from your research. Use
catchy language to sum up this information in a sentence, and present this sentence at the top of your page. This is “at a glance” information and it allows people to gain a
top-level understanding of the content immediately. Purple SAAS Business Case Study Template CUSTOMIZE THIS CASE STUDY TEMPLATE Use bold, contrasting fonts to make key information
stand out. The heading should feature the most impactful detail, as it’s the first thing readers see. For example, a stat like “Increased lead quality by 90%” grabs attention and
encourages further reading. If conducting an interview, highlight a direct quote or key insight to engage potential customers. Purple SAAS Business Case Study Template Header Use
charts to visualize data in your business case studies This consulting case study uses a chart to highlight lead value differences, making the data more visual and engaging. Red
SAAS Business Case Study Template CUSTOMIZE THIS CASE STUDY TEMPLATE Charts are an excellent way to visualize data and to bring statistics and information to life. Charts make
information easier to understand and to illustrate trends or patterns. Making charts is even easier with Venngage. WATCH: How to pick the right chart for your data Charts also work
well in project management case studies, where Gantt charts or timelines can showcase successful project execution. event marketing project management gantt chart example CREATE
THIS CHART TEMPLATE Use direct quotes to build trust in your marketing case study The business case study below uses a bright contrasting speech bubble to show that it includes a
direct quote, and helps the quote stand out from the rest of the text. Contrast Lead Generation Business Case Study Template CUSTOMIZE THIS CASE STUDY TEMPLATE Adding a direct
customer quote enhances authenticity. Research from Nielsen shows that 92% of people trust peer recommendations, and 70% trust those from strangers. Case study peer recommendation
quote If a client loves your work, capture their praise with a direct quote. Use part of an interview or request a statement—but always get permission. A strong quote grabs
attention and can influence potential customers. Simple case study examples Less is often more, and this is especially true when it comes to creating designs. These simple case
study examples show that smart clean designs and informative content can be an effective way to showcase your successes. Use colors and fonts to create a professional-looking case
study A case study doesn’t have to be dull—it should be easy to read and visually appealing. Try using different fonts for headings, complementary colors, and simple icons to
highlight key points. This makes the information clearer and more engaging. In this case study example, we can see how multiple fonts have been used to help differentiate between
the headers and content, as well as complementary colors and eye-catching icons. Blue Simple Business Case Study Template CUSTOMIZE THIS CASE STUDY TEMPLATE Marketing case study
examples Marketing case studies are incredibly useful for showing your marketing successes. Every successful marketing campaign relies on influencing a consumer’s behavior, and a
great case study can be a great way to spotlight your biggest wins. In the marketing case study examples below, a variety of designs and techniques to create impactful and
effective case studies. Show off impressive results with a bold marketing case study Case studies are all about showcasing your successes, so make sure the positive results really
pop. Use bold colors, big fonts, and simple icons to highlight key wins. For example, in the case study below, big achievements are marked with bright colors and circles to grab
attention—perfect for marketing case studies that need to catch a potential customer’s eye. Light simplebusiness case study template CUSTOMIZE THIS CASE STUDY TEMPLATE Use a simple
but clear layout in your case study A simple, clean layout works wonders, like in the example below. Using a white background and slim lines to separate sections keeps things clear
and easy to follow. This not only makes key results stand out but also improves accessibility, making it a great fit for larger reports with a consistent design. Modern lead
Generaton Business Case Study Template CUSTOMIZE THIS CASE STUDY TEMPLATE Use visuals and icons to create an engaging and branded business case study Nobody wants to read pages and
pages of text. Using icons, graphics, photos, or patterns helps create a much more engaging web design. In this social media marketing case study, eye-catching icons, colors, and
patterns create a visually appealing design. Social Media Business Case Study template CUSTOMIZE THIS CASE STUDY TEMPLATE Use a monochromatic color palette to create a professional
and clean case study Let your research shine by using a monochromatic and minimalistic color palette. By sticking to one color, and leaving lots of blank space you can ensure your
design doesn’t distract a potential customer from your case study content. Color combination examples In this case study on Polygon Media, the design is simple and professional,
and the layout allows the prospective customer to follow the flow of information. The gradient effect on the left-hand column helps break up the white background and adds an
interesting visual effect. Gray Lead Generation Business Case Study Template CUSTOMIZE THIS CASE STUDY TEMPLATE Did you know you can generate an accessible color palette with
Venngage? Try our free accessible color palette generator today and create a case study that delivers and looks pleasant to the eye: Add long term goals in your case study When
creating a case study, consider both short-term and long-term goals to get a full understanding of the company’s progress. Short-term goals focus on immediate achievements, while
long-term goals look at future plans. In this case study example, the short and long-term goals are clearly distinguished by light blue boxes and placed side by side so that they
