upvotes · 20 comments Mid/senior level career- am I burnt out? r/UXDesign • 10mo ago Mid/senior level career- am I burnt out? 38 upvotes · 27 comments This job posting is a joke,
right? Please tell me people are not actually applying for this. r/UXDesign • 8mo ago This job posting is a joke, right? Please tell me people are not actually applying for this.
r/UXDesign - This job posting is a joke, right? Please tell me people are not actually applying for this. 108 upvotes · 75 comments Can I build a market research portfolio on my
own without related experience or a related degree? r/Marketresearch • 9mo ago Can I build a market research portfolio on my own without related experience or a related degree? 5
upvotes · 11 comments Case Study during Interview process r/FPandA • 4mo ago Case Study during Interview process 6 upvotes · 9 comments Found a job after six months! 🎉 r/UXDesign •
6mo ago Found a job after six months! 🎉 151 upvotes · 21 comments First time seeing this in a job requirement r/UXDesign • 2mo ago First time seeing this in a job requirement
r/UXDesign - First time seeing this in a job requirement 137 upvotes · 22 comments 14 months, 421 applications, 1 offer r/UXDesign • 8mo ago 14 months, 421 applications, 1 offer
r/UXDesign - 14 months, 421 applications, 1 offer 702 upvotes · 99 comments Is this a crazy ask for a case study interview? r/FPandA • 9mo ago Is this a crazy ask for a case study
interview? r/FPandA - Is this a crazy ask for a case study interview? 2 87 upvotes · 101 comments I am writing 10 Research Proposals for 10 different funded programmes. Are there
any tips to write them quickly and effectively? r/PhDAdmissions • 7mo ago I am writing 10 Research Proposals for 10 different funded programmes. Are there any tips to write them
quickly and effectively? 5 upvotes · 14 comments What do staff level portfolios look like in the current job market? r/UXDesign • 2mo ago What do staff level portfolios look like
in the current job market? 66 upvotes · 36 comments One weird tip to help your resume get noticed that I NEVER see recommended r/UXDesign • 4mo ago One weird tip to help your
resume get noticed that I NEVER see recommended 413 upvotes · 57 comments Applying to Open/Study Research with Minimal Formal Research Experience r/fulbright • 17d ago Applying to
Open/Study Research with Minimal Formal Research Experience 9 upvotes · 3 comments I pitched a training solution to a director within a multi-billion dollar company today
r/instructionaldesign • 1y ago I pitched a training solution to a director within a multi-billion dollar company today 251 upvotes · 37 comments Got a job! r/UXDesign • 5mo ago Got
a job! 236 upvotes · 49 comments Designers who work in fintech (credit, payments, banks, etc..) what advice can you give someone interviewing for a principal level role in your
industry? r/UXDesign • 7mo ago Designers who work in fintech (credit, payments, banks, etc..) what advice can you give someone interviewing for a principal level role in your
industry? 21 upvotes · 16 comments VIEW POST IN Tiếng Việt 日本語 Português (Brasil) 繁體中文 Русский हिन्दी Français See more Community Info Section r/UXDesign Join UXDesign: A sub for
working UX professionals to talk about what they do at their jobs r/UXDesign is for people working in UX to discuss research and design problems, career advancement, and the
profession. Questions about finding a job and portfolio reviews will be redirected to our weekly sticked threads. Post flair is required. User flair is recommended and can be
customized. Please review sub rules before posting or commenting. Show more Public TOP POSTS Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 16, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 2023
Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Home
Popular News Explore RECENT r/mcp RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Developer Platform Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Best of Reddit Best of Reddit in Portuguese Best of
Reddit in German Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Skip to main content Objection-Handling
Secret That Works Every Time? Chance to show off. : r/sales r/sales Sign Up Log In Expand user menu Skip to Navigation Skip to Right Sidebar Back Go to sales r/sales • 2y ago
GeoSales Objection-Handling Secret That Works Every Time? Chance to show off. Hey guys. I’m looking for some top-notch objection-handling magic. The one's you’re most proud of
that’s your go-to and works like a charm every single time. I’m not talking about the Hail Mary you got lucky with once, but the solid, reliable responses that shut down that
objection consistently and help you close the deal. The more 'unconventional' they are, the better! Just for fun. 164 · 104 u/OpenAI avatar OpenAI • Promoted Less time debugging.
More time shipping. Use Codex to keep your team on track and on schedule. Try Codex for Free. Sign Up chatgpt.com Clickable image which will reveal the video player: Less time
debugging. More time shipping. Use Codex to keep your team on track and on schedule. Try Codex for Free. Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 Comments Section Brocosta271 • 2y ago
“It’s too expensive” “Okay I understand budget is important. What was your budget for a solution like this?” They usually say they dont have a number budget wise or some low ball
answer to which I respond “If you don’t have an anticipated budget for something like this, why do you think it’s too expensive?” Or “and how did you come up with that price?” Both
a pretty direct ways to get past a price objection and get the buyer to admit they either didn’t want to spend anything in the first place, or they have no idea what a product like
yours typically costs, and then you go back to selling the value and ROI. Another one I like is “I think we’re fine with what we have now”. if we’ve already had some discussions or
demos, I call them out respectfully and say “I understand change is difficult, but if you weren’t considering making a change in the first place we wouldn’t be having these
discussions” Feel free to submit some objections you’ve gotten! Happy to give my input 258 u/RustyGuns avatar RustyGuns • 2y ago For price I love to ask them, “compared to what?”
Usually they don’t have an answer or they mention another company which helps a ton to see where they are at. 21 astillero • 2y ago “If you don’t have an anticipated budget for
something like this, why do you think it’s too expensive?” “I understand change is difficult, but if you weren’t considering making a change in the first place we wouldn’t be
having these discussions” You must have a voice tone of Tom Hanks to be able to ask those questions without souring the conversation :) The reason I highlight this is because if
any rookie salesperson is reading this thinking they can rattle off questions like that - with even a hint of the wrong tone - it won't have the desired results at all. 24
Brocosta271 • 2y ago I totally agree about the tone. I definitely do have more of a personable selling style and have been told a lot that I come off very likeable. But that being
said, it may also be industry driven as I do software/data sales in Oil & Gas, so a lot of the people I sell to are very direct and also tend to be a bit of “good old boy” types
so, we can build rapport very quickly and get down to brass tacks almost immediately after. 6 1 more reply GeoSales OP • 2y ago Bro, those are awesome. I love it when you can trap
them into reluctantly admitting they were full of it 😂 23 Brocosta271 • 2y ago I call it “calling out the vibe” Basically it’s just calling people out on their bs in a professional
way. Works even better when you can telling them something they told you as a counter to their objection. For example: you’re deep in the sales process, confirming things like
“will this solve for XYZ?” “You want access/onboarding on XYZ date” “you have authority to sign up to $XX, correct?” Then when they try to pump the brakes with something like “too
expensive” or “idk if we’ll use it much” etc. you just parrot back what they said like “you said that this solution will solve for XYZ, you have authority to sign if we’re within
this budget, and you wanted your onboarding by this date. Has something changed since our last discussion? Or did I miss something, and if so I apologize for moving too fast” This
way they have to admit they said those things and either tell you what exactly changed (usually they aren’t the decision maker or signer), or they’ll actually tell you the real
issue stopping the deal from going through 41 3 more replies 1 more reply 13 more replies AlwaysFillmon • 2y ago From my experience a vast majority of objections can be proactively
overcame through the discovery and due diligence phase of the sales process. If all DD shows a viable fit for your product (aligns with business need, fits a budget, identified
you’re talking to the decision maker as well as any other metrics to qualify a client) the objection often lies on your inability to tactically navigate the only thing that’s need.
Selling based off value, selling based on why YOU, and selling based off why YOUR companies product. Qualification/ discovery/ DD whatever it’s called in whatever industry you’re
in if done correctly alleviates objections down the road. Simple as that. 38 Spintercom • 2y ago Definitely. I very rarely have to handle objections because my discovery gives me
so much insight - I just navigate around them before they come up. 7 BarryHeisman • 2y ago This. 8 GeoSales OP • 2y ago prevention is better than cure 👍 6 1 more reply 1 more reply
u/SnooDogs157 avatar SnooDogs157 • 2y ago You’re twice the price of xyz competitor. Is price going to be the most important lever for you here? If so, I’m always going to be higher
than XYZ. They have a good product/service/reputation but there’s a reason why they’re half the price. Who are you working with at XYZ? No matter what name they say, respond back
with. Oh, yeah. I know them. Tell them that you’re working with (your name at your company) they will lower their price even more. Then go into, if the prices were exactly the same
which one would you choose? It should be yours, or you’re in the wrong deal. Then quantify the value of what you’re selling and what the results would be to their company and ask
what will happen if they don’t hit that goal within your delivery timeframe. (You should get a direct consequence) and then tell them that people don’t get fired for selecting your
solution. You are always more expensive but it’s because of value and return to their business. 17 2 more replies u/Paychex_official avatar u/Paychex_official • Promoted Why are
you still the one catching payroll errors? There’s AI for that. Sign Up pages.paychex.com Thumbnail image: Why are you still the one catching payroll errors? There’s AI for that.
MesciVonPlushie • 2y ago I run a home service business, which isn’t exclusively a sales job, but sales is everything when running a business. The sale starts when they call and we
have no problem closing once we’re on site, so getting them on the schedule is most of the work, not that we have problems with staying busy, we’re booked solid atm. This is
something my business partner started doing. Usually, the first objection we encounter is “let me think about it.” He responds with “we hear that from people all the time and nine
times out of 10 we never hear from them again. So when you hang up the phone and call the next company, what’s the number 1 thing you’re gonna be looking for?” Catches them off
guard, calls them out, and pretty much always gets them to let us know their real objection so we can handle that. He’s landed us many quality jobs because of that line. 34
GeoSales OP • 2y ago classic and effective. nice 5 u/Jonoczall avatar Jonoczall • 2y ago On a side note, your profile is a wild ride 😅 5 1 more reply 6 more replies [deleted] • 2y
ago "We're not looking for anything like that right now" "Oh yeah most folks aren't, that's why I'm calling you instead of you calling me" throw in a chuckle or something From
there get into your pain statement or value prop quickly Edit: Autocorrect 62 u/bigbrun12 avatar bigbrun12 • 2y ago Gonna spam this one tomorrow. How long should I chuckle for? 13
benjiyon • 2y ago “Hehe… hehehe… hehehahaha… haha… ahahaha! AAAAAH HA HA HA HA HAAAAA” 16 2 more replies [deleted] • 2y ago Until they chuckle back, no exceptions 24 1 more reply
qooleo • 2y ago Manufacturing SaaS seller here: Objection handling issues can be largely avoided if you adequately handle the objections yourself first, up front. No, I'm not
talking about establishing an "up front contract". Personally, I actually enjoy and prefer to bring up / talk through most or all of the typical / anticipated objections up-front
myself, it lets them know I'm not trying to waste my time on tire-kicking / half-baked opportunities. If they balk, you have a time-waster. If they listen, you have something that
can be developed. Further, it allows you to get into a whole new level of straight-talking forthrightness that can surface all kinds of helpful information previously unintended
for your ears. Provided you're not selling some crazy expensive enterprise product / service that requires a 12-24 month sales cycle.... real deals actually have the potential to
come together quickly, if you know what you're doing, how to disqualify, ask the right questions, make statements that get them thinking, and navigating the org chart correctly,
and planting the right seeds. I like to talk about money / cost on the first call, and just ask them as casually as I possibly can, "...what are you looking to spend?". Think about
that for a second - if they can't even answer that simple question, you're either not dealing the right person / people, or they are in fact tire-kickers, and you're gonna end up
trying to apply all kinds of sales spin and strategies to surface pain / sell value, justify your stupid price, ad nauseam - waste your time on a deal that was likely never real.
If they CAN / DO answer your question, then you've got something to work from. Remember, doctors are typically not in the business of trying to convince people that they have pain
and then have to sell them on the solution; real patients come into the clinic on their own volition, and listen to what the good doctor has to say because deep down they want to
hear the straight truth. 13 1 more reply [deleted] • 2y ago My favorite was one of my first tech sales jobs, our product was software and hardware, and it had like a tablet with
it. One day our dir was on the phones with us helping us close deals and the guy said he wanted to sleep on it, and the tone my boss used and just sounded super confused and was
like “I mean, ok? It’s a tablet so it’s probably not super comfortable to sleep on” and the other person was cracking up and closed 10 GeoSales OP • 2y ago love stuff like this,
lol! once saw a client say he wanted to look around. salesman says: stand up, rotate... ok now you've looked around we doing this or what? 6 u/CalicoCapsun avatar CalicoCapsun • 2y
ago "I get it. If it's to much value for you and your family I can always recommend some low quality options instead." "Oh but I want quality." "This is what quality costs." 9 4
more replies u/hyperagentapp avatar u/hyperagentapp • Promoted What an AI agent builds when it has real infrastructure – scouted billboard locations, scored by traffic, mocked up
creative on real imagery, built an interactive planner. $1,000 bonus credits for first 1,000 subscribers. From the team at Airtable. Sign Up hyperagent.com Thumbnail image: What an
AI agent builds when it has real infrastructure – scouted billboard locations, scored by traffic, mocked up creative on real imagery, built an interactive planner. $1,000 bonus
credits for first 1,000 subscribers. From the team at Airtable. The_best_newb_ever • 2y ago Acknowledge -refer-bridge-move on "It's to expensive" "I understand that this is a big
investment, a lot of our customers initially feel the same way, the reason why they still decided to purchase our service is "insert USP", keep selling" This works with almost any
objection and is universal, I use it all the time. 7 u/SnooDogs157 avatar SnooDogs157 • 2y ago When having a time to close conversation, say that you have a weekly forecasting
meeting and that you currently have their opportunity closing by end of month, quarter, whatever. Ask them, “if you were me, would you be forecasting this opportunity for that
date?” When would you promise it would be complete. We’re looking for their timing, not yours. 5 sea3129 • 2y ago Use the objection as a reason why you’re reaching out if at all
possible. “I don’t have time for this” that’s exactly why I’m reaching out, this solution saves you time on xyz. “I don’t have budget for this” the solution is intended to work as
an extension of your team so you don’t have to allocate an employee for these tasks. It is way cheaper than an extra employee. “This isn’t important to our goals” that’s why I want
to set you up with this solution that allows you to focus on the important aspects of your business goals instead of xyz task” 4 New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with
a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue with Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. People
also ask about section People also ask about Top objection-handling techniques for sales Overcome sales objections by actively listening to understand the root cause of the
concern, validating the prospect's feelings, and then re-framing the situation to highlight value or provide a solution. Understand and Validate Acknowledge the objection directly.
Respond with empathy and show you understand their point of view. "I could understand why you feel that way." Ask clarifying questions to uncover the true objection. If a prospect
says, "I need to think about it," ask, "Is there anything I'm missing that you need to think over, or will this fit the bill?" Recognize that "I'm busy" is a common reflex, not
always a true rejection. Acknowledge their busyness and ask for a brief moment to assess relevance. "I know I caught you cold, can I level with you briefly to see if it even makes
to follow up in the first place?" Reframe and Provide Solutions Reframe price objections by focusing on value and the pain of inaction. Instead of debating the price, circle back
to the product's benefits and the cost of not solving their problem. "Beware — when dealing with this objection, do NOT focus on the price." Empower lower-influence individuals to
become your champions in B2B sales. If someone states, "It's not my decision," work to get them "sold" on your solution so they can advocate for you. "Empower someone of lower
influence to be your champion." Address concerns about external factors by emphasizing the product's advantages. When faced with objections like "it's too risky," justify the
investment by highlighting the competitive advantage it provides. "If this was cheap, all of your competitors would use it." Practice and Preparation Engage in role-playing to
prepare for common objections. Practice helps remove friction and allows you to refine your responses in a low-stakes environment. "Role play isn’t about being perfect, it’s about
removing friction." Focus on objection prevention through thorough discovery. Many objections disappear when you understand the client's situation and address potential blockers
early. "Objection prevention is what needs to be taught and practiced." Continuously learn and adapt by analyzing real objections. Record and transcribe actual calls to identify
and practice handling the specific objections you encounter. "Best objection practice I've found: record your actual calls and transcribe the objections." Are you currently
struggling with a specific sales objection? Sales Techniques & Communities salestechniques 24K weekly visitors Join This subreddit is for sharing techniques related to sales, and
the sales process that can improve selling experiences, and increase deal close rates. This subreddit is not for motivational posts, affiliate, MLMs, or any illegal or unethical
methods of sales. sales 214K weekly visitors Join Everything you need to know about sales, selling, business development, lead generation, prospecting, closing and more!
Recommended books are linked in the menu and sidebar. Read our rules before posting or commenting. Selling, recruiting and blog spam will result in an immediate and permanent ban.
Sales_Professionals 11K weekly visitors Join Everything related to sales, selling, business development, lead generation, prospecting, and closing deals. Strict Policy: Recruiting,
soliciting, self-promotion, and spam are prohibited. Violations will result in an immediate and permanent ban. salesdevelopment 16K weekly visitors Join An official channel of
R/Sales. The go to resource for Sales Development Reps, Business Development Reps, and any sales professional focused on top of funnel. Read our rules before posting or commenting.
Selling, recruiting and blog spam will result in an immediate and permanent ban. salesengineers 19K weekly visitors Join RoofingSales 4.2K weekly visitors Join A subreddit for
roofing sales professionals looking to share their expertise, stories, advice, or questions. Roofing sales is a tough, but rewarding career and we’re all in this together -
welcome! Show More Top strategies for closing high-value deals Best sales books for personal development How to handle objections during a pitch Networking tips for sales
professionals Rebuttal Outline Example? r/EEOC • 3y ago Rebuttal Outline Example? 3 upvotes · 1 comment u/vonage avatar vonage • Promoted TL;DR: Give the lock screen a personal
flair and Own Your Brand with Vonage. Thumbnail image: TL;DR: Give the lock screen a personal flair and Own Your Brand with Vonage. vonage.com Learn More A fun arithmetic trick
that works everytime r/CasualMath • 2y ago A fun arithmetic trick that works everytime 5 upvotes · 4 comments Can’t get over the “I’m busy”objection r/sales • 5y ago Can’t get over
the “I’m busy”objection 1 upvote · 5 comments How to become top tier at objection handling in tech sales? r/sales • 2y ago How to become top tier at objection handling in tech
sales? 22 upvotes · 27 comments Day 1 - Sales Objection Handling Challenge: "The Budget is Locked" r/sales • 10mo ago Day 1 - Sales Objection Handling Challenge: "The Budget is
Locked" 64 upvotes · 211 comments How often do reps actually practice objection handling? r/sales • 4mo ago How often do reps actually practice objection handling? 19 upvotes · 90
comments How to beat too expensive r/sales • 2y ago How to beat too expensive 3 upvotes · 32 comments Best Guide on Objection Handling / Reflex Objection During Cold Calling
r/sales • 4mo ago Best Guide on Objection Handling / Reflex Objection During Cold Calling 3 upvotes · 7 comments I am so bad at this r/sales • 10d ago I am so bad at this 124
upvotes · 53 comments How to handle objections and not give up so quickly? [Beginner Cold Caller] r/sales • 7y ago How to handle objections and not give up so quickly? [Beginner
Cold Caller] 17 upvotes · 30 comments Izzet R&D lab funny items that don’t work properly just yet. r/RavnicaDMs • 2y ago Izzet R&D lab funny items that don’t work properly just
yet. 22 upvotes · 12 comments Am I just not cut out for this? r/sales • 2mo ago Am I just not cut out for this? 59 upvotes · 77 comments Help: Objection handling r/sales • 10y ago
Help: Objection handling 18 upvotes · 20 comments Need desperate advice or a reality check. r/sales • 5mo ago Need desperate advice or a reality check. 8 upvotes · 18 comments How
do you handle price objections when the thing itself is low perceived value (junk removal) r/sales • 6mo ago How do you handle price objections when the thing itself is low
perceived value (junk removal) 6 upvotes · 32 comments How do you deal with price objections? r/sales • 5y ago How do you deal with price objections? 1 upvote · 16 comments Let’s
hear those one call close rebuttals for “I want to get other quotes/estimates”. How are you overcoming this objection? r/sales • 1y ago Let’s hear those one call close rebuttals
for “I want to get other quotes/estimates”. How are you overcoming this objection? 89 upvotes · 179 comments Ai service tool which will bring up objection answers while on the
phone r/SaaS • 1y ago Ai service tool which will bring up objection answers while on the phone 2 upvotes · 7 comments Early Sales Objections Are Actually Brush-Offs! And here are
the 7 most common brush-offs you’ll likely face when selling. r/sales • 6y ago Early Sales Objections Are Actually Brush-Offs! And here are the 7 most common brush-offs you’ll
likely face when selling. 5 upvotes · 1 comment What's your best closing techniques to get signed contracts? r/sales • 16d ago What's your best closing techniques to get signed
contracts? 38 upvotes · 51 comments The best way to overcome objections is to address them before they happen r/sales • 5y ago The best way to overcome objections is to address
them before they happen 220 upvotes · 54 comments Laid off two weeks ago. Do you accept an offer you aren’t excited about or wait for the right role? r/sales • 2mo ago Laid off two
weeks ago. Do you accept an offer you aren’t excited about or wait for the right role? 37 upvotes · 65 comments Prospect complained, boss never asked me what happened. r/sales •
4mo ago Prospect complained, boss never asked me what happened. 65 upvotes · 25 comments What strategies do you use to overcome objections from hesitant buyers? r/realtors • 4mo
ago What strategies do you use to overcome objections from hesitant buyers? 9 comments Objection-Handling Cheat Sheet: The 15 top objections your prospects will give you, and how
to handle them! r/sales • 6y ago Objection-Handling Cheat Sheet: The 15 top objections your prospects will give you, and how to handle them! 50 upvotes · 18 comments VIEW POST IN
简体中文 Русский Tiếng Việt 日本語 Português (Brasil) See more Community Info Section r/sales Join Sales and Selling Everything you need to know about sales, selling, business
development, lead generation, prospecting, closing and more! Recommended books are linked in the menu and sidebar. Read our rules before posting or commenting. Selling, recruiting
and blog spam will result in an immediate and permanent ban. Show more Public TOP POSTS Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 4, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 2024
Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Home
Popular News Explore RECENT r/mcp RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Developer Platform Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Best of Reddit Best of Reddit in Portuguese Best of
Reddit in German Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. We use cookies to provide the best website
experience, to help understand marketing efforts, and to analyze our traffic (which includes session replay software). We may also share data with ad partners to reach potential
customers across the web. To learn more, visit our Privacy Policy. If you accept the use of cookies, please continue exploring our site or click “Accept All.” Accept All Manage
Settings About We use cookies to provide the best website experience, to help understand marketing efforts, and to analyze our traffic (which includes session replay software). We
may also share data with ad partners to reach potential customers across the web. To learn more, visit our Privacy Policy. If you accept the use of cookies, please continue
exploring our site or click “Accept All.” Accept All Manage Settings Necessary Cookies Always On Necessary cookies enable core functionality. The website cannot function properly
without these cookies, and can only be disabled by changing your browser preferences. Functional We use these cookies to tailor the content and experience you receive on our
website. Consent expires after 6 months. Performance We use these cookies to monitor and improve website performance. Consent expires after 6 months. Advertising We use these
cookies to help us improve the relevancy of advertising campaigns you receive. EN Contact Sign In Product Solutions Resources Company Pricing Request Demo 18 min read The
objection-handling playbook for B2B sales reps Brie Tobin Sr. Director, SMB & Commercial Sales, Highspot Updated on April 10, 2026 Objection Handling Playbook: Tips, Best
Practices, and Examples Table of Contents What is objection handling? The importance of objection handling in sales The different types of sales objections reps face The 5 stages
of successful objection handling Practicing objection handling with ongoing training and coaching Turn every objection into an opportunity for connection Categories Sales Training,
Coaching, and Onboarding Key Takeaways Objection handling refers to addressing a B2B buyer’s concerns during a sales conversation. It helps reps uncover what’s blocking the deal
from advancing forward and guide prospects toward making confident purchasing decisions. Most sales objections come down to budget, timing, need, or authority. Knowing which type
you’re facing can help you respond appropriately and keep deals on track. Strong objection handling isn’t about pushing harder. It’s about listening, understanding the ‘why’ behind
the hesitation, and reframing the conversation around value. Free Resource 5 ways to help sellers win with AI role play Download Now Sarah, a seasoned sales rep, was close to
sealing the deal. The prospect seemed interested, nodding along as she explained the value of her solution. Then, it happened: “This is too expensive.” Her stomach dropped. She had
rehearsed her sales pitch a hundred times and put so much time into pursuing this prospective buyer. This felt like a dead end. Sound familiar? If you’ve worked in B2B sales for
some time, you’ve undoubtedly heard objections like this more times than you can count. But objections aren’t dealbreakers. They’re buying signals. In fact, most customers say no
multiple times before finally accepting a sales offer. This means giving up after the first “no” is a missed opportunity. The key to successful outcomes is your sales messaging and
deal navigation. Play What is objection handling? Objection handling is responding to and resolving a prospect’s objections during the sales process. Instead of avoiding objections
in sales calls and seeing them as barriers, skilled reps use them as an opportunity to guide the customer journey, show value, and build trust. When a prospect raises a concern,
it’s tempting to immediately defend your product, list its benefits, or convince them they’re wrong. But that approach rarely works. Instead, think of challenges from prospects as
a chance to move the sale forward. It’s a natural part of the sales negotiation process. Every hesitation and “not right now” tells you more about what’s holding them back. Once
you understand your buyer’s pushbacks, you can guide them forward. This is your chance to let them elaborate so you can understand and address their concerns collaboratively rather
than confrontationally. Objection handling FAQs How do successful B2B sales professionals prepare for buyer objections before they even come up in deals? When should a sales rep
walk away from a prospective customer's objection instead of trying to overcome it? How do top-performing B2B sales reps involve deal champions or internal stakeholders in handling
objections? How can sales reps know when they've addressed a buyer objection without over‑explaining or being pushy? Do objection‑handling best practices differ for sales reps
working different industries and buyer types? The importance of objection handling in sales Effective objection handling is fundamental to a successful sales effort. Rather than
letting potential objections shut down the conversation, top sales teams use them to dive deeper into a prospect’s concerns. An objection often reveals other pain points prospects
hadn’t fully considered. Here’s why it matters so much: It builds trust. When a rep handles objections with confidence and empathy, it signals credibility. Buyers see that you
understand their concerns and care about finding the right solution. It clarifies needs. Each objection helps surface hidden priorities or deal blockers. Addressing them refines
your understanding of what it’ll take to close the gap. It keeps deals moving. Instead of letting objections stall momentum, you can use them to re-engage and guide the buyer
toward resolution. By honing your active listening skills, observing body language, and encouraging ongoing dialogue, sales reps can address what’s driving the hesitation. Did you
know? Only 41% of sales reps are prepared to respond to objections. (Source: Topaz Sales Consulting) The different types of sales objections reps face When a buyer pushes back,
they rarely do so randomly. Understanding common objections helps you identify the underlying concern, which usually falls into one of four categories: Price, Timing, Need, or
Authority. 1. Price objection Budget concerns often reflect uncertainty around value rather than a lack of funds. Your buyer needs clarity on why this investment is worth
prioritizing. In this case, you must connect the dots between the cost and the business outcomes your solution supports. When you make the impact clear, the conversation will shift
from price to return. Here are a few ways these common sales objections tend to show up in real conversations and how skilled sellers turn them into value-focused discussions.
“It’s too expensive.” How to respond: “Let’s talk about the outcomes that would make this feel worthwhile.” Why it works: It helps the buyer see the cost in the context of the
growth or efficiency it unlocks. “We don’t have a budget allocated.” How to respond: “Many teams shift funds when they see the ROI. Can we map the potential impact?” Why it works:
You reframe the purchase as an investment that returns budget, not drains it. “Your competitor offered us a lower price.” How to respond: “That’s helpful context. For clarity, does
their proposal include onboarding, analytics, and support? Those make a big difference in long-term success.” Why it works: You shift the comparison from price alone to the full
value and outcomes the buyer actually cares about, helping them see why a lower sticker price might cost more later. “Show me a discount first.” How to respond: “Before we discuss
pricing changes, let’s ensure the package meets your must-have goals.” Why it works: You protect margins and maintain perceived value. “We’re tightening spend this year.” How to
respond: “Completely understand. That’s why many customers invest in tools that help them do more with less. Want to explore that angle?” Why it works: You position your product as
a cost saver, not a line-item expense. Pro tip: If budget is a real issue, offer some flexibility. Look into breaking the cost into phases or a pay-as-you-go subscription. Do you
have a lower-tier option? Help them see a path forward instead of a dead end. Play Looking to level-up your sales strategy? Download our GTM Performance Gap Report to learn how AI
can accelerate revenue growth and streamline go-to-market operations. 2. Timing objection A timing objection can mean your potential customer is juggling other priorities. In other
words: “I’m not convinced this is urgent.” Effective sales reps overcome this by showing how taking action today supports goals your buyer already cares about, or how waiting
creates risks. Helping your customers see the cost of delay keeps the opportunity alive. Here’s what timing objections look like and how to respond in a way that keeps the deal
warm. “This isn’t a priority right now.” How to respond: “Understood. Can you share what is the top priority today? There might be more overlap than it seems.” Why it works: You
explore hidden urgency instead of accepting delay. “We’re in the middle of another initiative.” How to respond: “Let’s sync your timelines. Some teams onboard gradually while their
other initiative finishes, avoiding disruption.” Why it works: You solve for workflow and reduce perceived risk. “We need to see how the next quarter goes.” How to respond: “Happy
to align with that. What metrics would signal that now is the right time?” Why it works: You define a future trigger instead of leaving the deal in limbo. “We’re waiting on
internal changes first.” How to respond: “What changes are coming? If it helps, we can plan onboarding around them so your team is ready when everything settles.” Why it works: You
turn a blocker into a planning opportunity. “Let’s talk again in six months.” How to respond: “I can make that happen. Before we lock a date, what milestones are you aiming for in
that timeframe?” Why it works: You keep momentum and uncover urgency that might accelerate the timeline. Pro tip: You can offer to reduce risk with a pilot program. A small test
run gives the prospect a low-pressure way to see the value firsthand.d From our Win/Win Series Listen to the podcast Episode 52: Enabling Teams to Curate Excellent Customer
Experiences Content Management • Guest: Denise Romero • 19 min Hunter Douglas's L&D leader explains how tailoring sales content and messaging to each buyer helps reps deliver a
stellar CX. 0:00 / 1:51 1x Listen on: Spotify Apple View full episode details 3. Authority objection Sales rarely move forward without the right stakeholders involved. Authority
objections show that the decision process isn’t fully mapped. Rather than pushing for immediate access, your sales reps must guide champions through what other decision-makers will
want to know. Equipping them to advocate internally helps build consensus and keeps deals from stalling. Here’s how to handle common authority objections without overstepping or
losing momentum. “I need to check with my boss.” How to respond: “Totally makes sense. What would they need to see to say yes?” Why it works: You help them build a strong internal
business case rather than disappearing into email limbo. “Our leadership isn’t bought in yet.” How to respond: “Happy to help get them there. Who else should be in the conversation
so we can answer their questions directly?” Why it works: This expands your influence to true decision-makers. “I’m not the right person to evaluate this.” How to respond: “Thanks
for pointing me in the right direction. Who typically leads this type of initiative?” Why it works: You smoothly move toward the real champion while maintaining a friendly
connection. “Let me collect more team input first.” How to respond: “Sounds good. What feedback would be most valuable for your next step? I can equip you with materials to make
that easier.” Why it works: You stay close to the process instead of waiting on the sidelines. “We need cross-functional approval.” How to respond: “Let’s set up a short alignment
call with the key stakeholders so they can weigh in early.” Why it works: Reduces internal friction and speeds group consensus. Pro tip: It’s often best to schedule a call with the
CFO or key buying stakeholders (with the prospect’s approval) to ensure information isn’t relayed secondhand. This allows you to address concerns directly and maintain momentum.
