this is there toousers. 60 days later, where you were 100 on November
30th, 2022, everything changed. In five days, Chat QPT was released, and
went all the way to a million users. 60 day data, we were 100 million
users. This was the fest growing application in history. And almost
everyone was playing around with it, some started building entire
businesses around AR. 5K, 10K, 25K, 50K per month. Businesses started
with no technical backgrounds, whatsoever, and many full time jobs.
Helping businesses implementing was now becoming a real opportunity for
many out there. And welcome to the masterclass Building for very own, AI
Automation, agency. This is going to be the first module that we're
gonna run through together, and it's gonna be everything around the AI
business landscape at the moment, and we're gonna constantly refresh
this in the background to always make sure that we can show the latest
information. So what we're gonna cover in this module? Well, first of
all, we need to know how the cultrum AI is impossible to now everyone
having AI. We're gonna cover the current state of the implementation
gap, which is creating a billion dollar opportunity for many, many non
organizations out there, but more importantly, democratizing it for the
big for consultants out there, like Delitt. So Now everyone having a
fair equal opportunity to go after this potential for visitors. Also the
future, why the next 12 to 24 months are going to be so critical within
this space? We're also gonna cover in the market reality. Again, we
always have to be data driven, I always like to show you as much as
possible, and that the numbers actually matter without their being
height or some of the feed promises out there, like others in the AI
space showcase. We're also going to cover four very common myths around
worth the wib and starting an AI back business. We're gonna, of course,
make sure it to cover a reality check at the end for how much time,
money, I worry really good to get the output. and then make your
decision. Is this right review and of course, which pathway would you
like to find? But how did we get. Well, it's been a 70 year journey in
the making, all the way back in 1950, Alan During publishes the paper,
computing, machinery, and intelligence, and introduces the cheat test,
which was used for many, many years, and it is even still used still.
Then, in 1956, there was the first ever AI conference here to speak. We'
in Dotmouth, and this is the Dalmouth Conference, where they officially
coined artificial intelligence, and the entire promise was around
machines that seemed like AI.mership forwards to the 1970s, and what we
find in this time period is we're starting to change the way the AI's
developed and shifting towards knowledge representation and expert
systems. If we jump forwards again into the 1980s, this is where Japan's
fifth generation computer, lead the world to AI blogly, but it also occ
coincided with the first series of AI winters, because the promise of AI
has been overhyped and hasn't actually delivered. If we jump forwards
again to the 1990s, AA is now shifting from being hand coded rules to
actually using data driven methods. But one of the key moments in the
1990s was when IBM's Deep blue Comp computer defeated Gary Kmanov, the
world' chess champion, in a game. The world is paying high attention,
and we used to that. Ch events never discovered like that. It was
probably the biggest news coverage for a chess match ever. We were
trying to prove that it was possible to build the chess machine that
could be probably the best world. challenging as far off in any way. I
mean, here's pinnacle of just. He's incredible genius. There were people
who, even just a few years before, said it was when it take decades to
do. The chess world, all expected to spar up to it, because the human
had always won before. We worked very hard in the intermediating year,
to improve deep blue in various ways. I spent a lot of time in the
office playing a lot of practice games, looking for lots of errors that
the to be fixed, and we were pretty confident that did we do better when
we got to the match. That was the chance to see, did we make a
difference?. He was under the tremendous. I imagine. The program
wasn'taving the way he was expecting. He thought that he was going to
figure out the computer. And he wasn't prepare, I think. I mean, the
whole game was surreal. What was he doing? It didn't really make any
sense. Whoa! Deep blue has instantly sacrificed with night capture E6
doesn't. knew problem. But at the end, tomorrow he stands up, he starts
gestering. He looks over at his mother. You can this this one for All
right... You's as well...Harry sol's actual problems for businesses, and
how they can take advantage of it. We're going to touch on this later
on, but is the principle of top line enhancements or reducing lots of
line costs. And we're going to go through both of those because that's
where the opportunity sits for us today. I'm one of the other reasons
that the expertise is such a key part is because Her's absolutelyolute
to explosion. I couldn't even cover up all of the penny chair. I
couldn't there are so many different ones, thousands and thousands of AI
powered tools, as well as automation platforms. Many of these are may
have started just before or just after 2020, and over the last six
years, have come leaps and balanced because of the transformation
breakthrough back in 2017 That also follows with the fact that there's
now more options than ever, and there's more confusion than ever. So
businesses don't know what tool to use, where to use it, what they
should build themselves, versus, buy off the shelf and everything else
in this space. Now you'll see here in the background, we've got
something called the adoption curve. There's always been the leaders in
adopting this technology. They're called the innovators. They're always
at the front of the line trying to get access to the latest innovation.
Then you'll come up to the early adopters. So this is we're starting to
get more and more businesses, want to try and want to use it before
shifting into the early majority. And this first half of the graph is
where we offer, not to AI tools and adoption today. Now, what you tend
to find is now are certain deparlments and organizational industries
that like to wait and see the markets beforehand. A gr example,
traditionally is around the government space, they normally want to be
late to the party, having seen that it works, firstat be an early, and
incorporate it straight away. And then we also get the lagards to write
to the end. And these are the last few businesses that actually adopt it
and actually use it day to day. But as as I mentioned, there's loads and
loads of tools coming to the market, there's always the latest iteration
of Chat BT or cruled or Gro or Gemini, and what this means is we're
constantly going back to the start. We're constantly going back from
earlier majority to early adopctors, to innovators, because mortals are
la weekly, there's more and more integrations possible, there's more
options than ever to choose from, but also, there's more ways of doing
it wrong. And that's where our expertise can come in and help gu
businesses or what you use cases, what are bad use cases, and where they
should take advantage. So we've got the four key stages where we boiled
it down. We've got most businesses are aware of Aon, and know that it
could transform part of their operations. The next level down from now
is that leaders within businesses are aware of AI and want to use it and
have it as part of a strategic fan, but actually haven't turned it on or
used it yet. After that, we then have life. And this is where very, very
few businesses have actually gone through an integrated AI into lots of
workflows, because there's a big difference between telling on your chat
GPT account or Claude or Grok just to have a conversation with versus
having it embedded in entire workflows so that it can generate content
on autopilots, it can help speed up processes, respond to customers,
screen CDs, anything like this. And that's where we go to the last part,
which is strategic. And this is where a very, very few amount of
businesses have actually understood, great, we've got a pilotwork of one
or two areas, and now we're looking to scale it strategically across our
entire business. How it will ties together, all of the different parts,
and much, much more. So let's bring that down further. When you're
speaking to businesses, if they're in the aware phase, the normally same
phrases like, " I don't know where to use it, I've heard about X, Y,Z,
tool, and it looked cool, but I haven't heard it on. I've seen there's
lots of market reports about AI in this part of the business, or giving
benefits in this area, but I haven't turned on. I'm confident it can
give me the uppers, I't trust it, and all these different things.'s more
commonly becoming the case is they come to a conference or a talk about
AI and they hear us amazing, but they don't know what to do. So that's
where the next level down comes in. And also all about intent, which is
where they go from being aware that AI basically exists to actually
having an idea or a plan on how they could use it. So, for example,
their intent could be that they want to reduce costs, they need to
improve X, YZ performance metric, they want to on board customers in a
quicker round of time, for example, they want to reduce the lead to cash
process, i. how long it takes to identify all the way through to getting
paid. So there's loads of different metrics that sit around that to be
able to improve business performance. Maybe they' said that they've used
it personally, like their own charitity accounts, but they're not
actually incorporated it into the business. And that's where many of the
executives are today is they trust it with their own personal, you know,
writing of poems or maybe rewriting an email here there. They've not
really incorporated it properly into the business. A very common one as
well is the highest level of sort of integration, to speak, which
they've started using, Gemini or coilot, the de facto at AI tools, in
many, many different platforms. So this is where it's already there.
They've played around with it and they tried to get some improvements.
The next part is live, and this is where very few have actually gone
through an integrated AI solutions into an entire workflow. We're
talking having the entire on boarding process automated. We're talking
about screening, the majority of the same bees that come into a
business. It's now generating 80% of the content for marketing, with a
little approval of the either end forThis is the idea, and yet we're
happy for it to go out to the rest of the world. So it helps them to
speed up that entire process. Or maybe, like I mentioned earlier,
they've got a specific tool, like sales force, and they've paid for it
and turned on extra elements like the AI agent. Really good for specific
tasks, but very, very domain focused for the alput it's producing. And
that's where we go to smallest sl of businesses at the mainland, which
is that very few are actually using AI, effectively at scale. And this
applies to all organizations, of all sizes, because what you'll see is
the minI reports out there from Golo McKenzie, all of these different
ones saying that AI implementation is still on the plan. They've tried
it here or there, but they're not actually looking at how it transforms
their business and to end. So, for example, they have a one year r map
on how they're going to integrate with the AI, but they haven't thought
for the next five years or 10 years, or then you're offering that they
could produce or where they're going to shift the business in the long
term as well. Maybe they've incorporated it into the pan to achieve a
specific goal within a specific time. Again, in the private equity
world, working with some of the business that they own. Maybe they to
reduce costs by ext because that's when they're going to sell the
business and they need to show you that they're, you know reducing the
operational costs where possible. They're increasing the amount of money
that they can bring in and more. Lastly as well, they turned AI and
automation on across a multiple business processes, but did not quite
scaled it up to having lots and lots of cases or tasks going through
that end to end. And that's where we come in. And what we're trying to
do is help them understand So we need to be able to speak their
language, not tech Dargon, I need to make sure that we can explain what
he can do, how it works, at a high level that resonates with them. For
example, with the voice I know, the Tephhan AI, they told them to know
how Vapppy works or retail works, or anything like this, the majority
just care does it answer the phone 247, can it book in a meeting with
this potential lead, yes or no? We need to explain it in terms for them,
that they understand versus the real tech, tool stack that is behind it.
We also need to make sure is that we really understand their problem.
And that's why L one in this master class and different modules, we're
going to be going through and identifying your niche specifically,
what're out, maybe what you have some experience in, doing different
research to find problems, that you'll be able to solve whether it's
assess solution or actually delivering one of projects. We also need to
make sure that we're able to actually implement the solutions. You don't
want to talk to them about theory and promising things you can't
actually deliver. They need to be solutions that can actually be
implemented for that business. The next part is reasonable quins. You're
seeing many YouTubers and other people out there saying that they charge
hundreds of thousands of dollars to be el to implement it. But if
reality is for a lot of the smaller medium sized businesses out there,
that's not realistic for them. We're gonna touch it later on in the
master classes, how we can go through and break down our pricing,
understanding what we should charge of what stage, how to do SAS versus
one off, ongoing costs, from, silver gold, tearing of solutions, and
much, much more. businesses, but also going to want false results,
especially in the smaller medium sized space, they're not going to weigh
12 months to get a solution. They want something set up with in a couple
of days, a week, that they will be able to go through and use straight
away. And that also ties into the costs of the metric that they've
associated with that, and how we can go through in touch on the pricing
before, we can do some stage dates around payments as well. The other
thing we're gonna want to understand as well is why they are spending in
the first place. It could be that they're competitors are already
spending on AI, they want to keep up, maybe they've got some bottom in
the existing process. That means they're not a. And then November 2022
Louis McKenzie, all of these different ones, saying saying that A
implementation is still on their plan, perhaps the operational will cost
the multiple business processes, but they're not quite scaled it up to
having lots and lots of cases or tasks going through that end to end.
And that's where we come in. And what we're trying to do is help them
understand what they need.at a high level that resonates with them. For
example, with the voice I I know, the telephony AI, they told want to
know how vap he works or retail works or anything like this, the
majority just care, does it answerms of a phone 24/7, C it booking a
meeting with this potential lead, yes or no? We need to explain it in
terms for them, that they understand versus the real tech, tool stack
that sits behind it., we also need to make sure is that we really
understand their problem. That's why later on in this master class and
different modules, we're going to be going through and identifying your
niches. specifically, we'll log it out, maybe what you have some
experience in doing different research to find problems, that you'll be
able to solve, whether it's assess solution or actually delivering one
of projects. We also need to make sure that we're able to actually
implement the solutions. You don't want to talk to them about theory and
promising, you can't actually deliver. They need to be solutions that
can actually be implemented for that business. The next part is
reasonable quot. You're seeing many of the YouTube videos and other
people are there saying that they charge hundreds of thousands of
dollars to be able to implement it. But if reality is, for a lot of the
smaller mediumsized businesses out there, that's not realistic for them.
We're gonna touch it later on in the master classes, how we can go
through and break down RRY pricing, understanding we be in charge of
what stage, how to do SAST versus one off ongoing costs, silver gold
tearing of solutions, and much, much more. But businesses, they're also
going to want files results, especially in the small and medium sized
space, they're not going to wait 12 months to get a solution. They want
something set up with them in a couple of days, or weeks, that they'll
be able to go through and use a strange way. And that also ties into the
costs on the metric that they've associated with that, how you can go
through and touch on the pricing before, we can do some stage gates
around payments as well. The other thing we're going to want to
understand as well is why they are spending in the first place. It could
be that they're competit are already spending on AI, they want to keep
up, maybe they' got some bott eggs in the existing process. That means
they're not able to scale without increasing the number of people they
hire, or the number of people they got on ball, or the number of cases
that they can completely within a certain time, the number of, maybe
it's the particular in the customer service base, much, much more. The
other side is the cost saving as well, and there's no getting around
this, because this is definitely part of one lot of businesses are
looking at AI because there's a big difference between a 10K AI going
through doing that solution day to day versus a $40,000 a year, you
know, an average human, to go through and complete that process. It
doesn't take six days, it's not on holiday, it works 247, 365. And
that's of course, why lots of business is looking at it, so definitely
keep that in mind, you can't get around it's just something that's
happening in the world today. The other side that not businesses are
looking at as well, is how they can use it for a new revenue
opportunity. For example, I've been working with some firms in the UK
and they're looking at how they launch maybe a porter with some low cost
to serve that has AI the back engine advising or customizing templates
for them so that they can then go through and actually deliver that at
low cost, maybe, you know, thousand pounds a year, just to get some low
ticket entry for NDAs or dissolution agreements or anything like this,
for businesses to use day to day. The other side of this is
understanding something called the top line, as well as the bottom line
for businesses. Now, the top line is basic money into the business, and
that's what we just touched on. What is a revenue opportunity for them?
What's a new product that they could sell? What's a new service that
they could sell? Can they do more with less? Can they have an AI chat
agent for coaching, for example? It's all of these different revenue and
income stream opportunities that they're not going to have thanks to AI.
The other side of this is the bottom line. Now, this is money out of the
business, and you know if they're talking about this because it's to do
with costs, the time taken to complete a process. impact business. This
is how they've got existing costs and they're looking to stream ideas,
being more agile and everything into space. So if they're looking to
make more money with AI, we're probably looking at the top line, they're
looking to reduce the time to complete a process, the cost associated
with a business, or anything, in that space, that's where it's likely to
be the bottom line. Now, something really important to note is the
bottom line is norm only where a lot of the costs actually sits for
businesses. Then you see lots of YouTube demos out there and lots of
people, a brand new Sassle rings, maybe for the top line, or solutions
they built for sales, and that is really good. And that's on your
fraction of the iceberg versus the depth that's beneath it, for the
bottom line operating costs for many businesses day to day. And that's
why for many AI isn't it nice to have A. It's actually now become a must
have. And businesses are willing to pay to get it right first time, and
have that continuous improvement, go with it as well. And that's how
we've come up to where we are today, and the real opportunity that is
carrying facing us. Now, what you look at 2025 and beyond, honestly, who
knows? We just saw the brand new cs at 4.5 release, and that absolutely
blue people away because it was supposed to be double the autonomous
cading time from two hours to four hours, but it's just from two hours
to 30 hours. So, honestly, I think if anyone tells you that they can
predict the future when it comes to AI, something's not. You know, it
smells from future, you say that's a bit of BS probably in the air, when
it comes to that. I think that there's some rep repeatable patterns,
that we can definitely take into consideration, but it really is ed it
unknown at the magnum. But the reality is, there's definitely
opportunities to help businesses implement this and cut costs, or for
you to go through and develop maybe assass. The businesses can buy on a
monthly subscription, that improves some aspect of them, day to day. And
there's no way to anwering that. You're able to choose both of the
pathways, and we've got both master classies on that to cover. So let's
go through an example of maybe how we can predict the future, because
it's very similar to websites. In 1998, it was all about doing this one.
I'm not sure if this is a reality, and then by 2005, it was a must have,
and everyone needed it. And then by 2010, I mean, every businesses had
to have one, and you couldn't really exist with that one. And this is
similar to Aon. When it first got released in 2022, everyone was like,
this is cool, I can get it to write sentences, for two things there's a
pretty funky upput for some of the ones, and it was knowing he was great
as he was today. My favorite explanation "Th is always the video of Will
Smith eating pasta because it shows just how far AI video generation has
come. Then, by 2023 and 2024, many companies have actually started
playing around with it and realizing that they can actually get some
benefits out of it. And that's why in 2025, there was a huge shift. And
it was the realization for many businesses, that they need to figure
this out. They need to implement it. They need to see what area the
business that's going to be impacted by how they can use it. I' 530
groups as well, and they' even thinking,W the businesses's going to be
fundamentally impacted with it, I.e, if they' got a call center, is that
going to be completely destroyed by say, within the next couple of
years? So how do they incorporate in maybe voice AI, into the existing
company, how do they shift what they're offering? How do they need more
competitive? And as much, much more. And that's why by 202 26, really
and beyond, we're looking at not using AI. Why is that? What's missing
here? For many organizations? So that's the shift that's currently
undergoing. And AI is following that path of the website, but much, much
faster. Now, I'm gonna give you some real treats for a second. Which is
that you're probably not the first to think of this specific solution or
alpput that you're trying to achieve. We're nowhere near to saturation,
and that's great, because the question isn't, is there room for me? The
actual question is when I take action. And this is how you're gonna be
able to go through, set up your own company, and start speaking to
businesses, and much, much more. So, what does that market opportunity
actually look like? This isn't my opinion. We're going to run through
some actual numbers. So, I got the Census Bure data from the US
government, so definitely look at this for your specific location. Now,
what you can see in here is the top 20 industries with optimal 100
employees within their businesses. So we can see that 15% is
professional scientific advisory firms. There's 9% in the construction
space. We've got 8.6% in others, we've got 7% in healthcare and social,
7.5% in retail trade. We've got accommodation, restaurants and much,
much more. And this is where we're going to start over the next couple
of episodes, as well into week two and beyond, is really identify what
least you want to claim and the game that sits around that as well. To
bring that to life, if we then start to deep dive in the top 20
industries with less than 10 employees, we can see as professional and
scientific advisory at 21% always, construction at around 12%, other
services at 11 and a real tow and the other ones as well. But if we come
across to the industries with 10 to 20 employ years, we can now see that
accommodation is actually starting to come up. Restaurants has jumped up
lastly, healthcare and social is still going strong, and the
professional and scientific advisory funds has dropped out. If we now
come up, the next bracket is well for 20 to 13 years, we've still got
aination in the restaurants and healthcare. If we come across to 3040,
again, those three industries still needing strong. We can come up again
to 40 to 15 breeze, still the same ones, still the same with 50 to 75,
but the proportions are changing around a lot. I include getting blow to
the direct data all of these dards, so you can find them nice and
easily. The reason I'll show you these last called ones specifically, is
because many of the businesses you going to start to work with, probably
have up to 100 employees, who most likely have from around five
employees, probably up to around 20 to 50. So that's kind of the area
that you're looking at. If you maybe psycho going, but Alex, these
numbers are so small. Why do I care about 10% for social care and
health? Well, if we come back up to that top 20 industries, with up to
100 employees. So now we're gonna take the example of looking at
restaurants specifically. So if I look at this graph, it's 5%. It
doesn't sound like that much. But actually, there's 900,000 restaurants
and other eating places. There's25,000 full service restaurants. There's
162,000 limited service restaurants. So there's a huge number there,
tucked away and what looks like, 5%. So why am I showing you this? Well,
if you come across to the next line, what that means is there's 1. 3
million restaurants, that you'd be able to targetgue with AI and
automation solutions alone. And that's just in the US. There's only a
few to expand to maybe other English speaking countries. You've got the
EU, you've got Canada, you've got so many different places, you can turn
on the technology. So we're going to run through an example. I've broken
it down, as you can see on the screen here, for the number of employees
within a business, and the number of restaurants within that category.
So for example, if there's five to nine employees within that business,
we've got 256,000 companies that meet that criteria. So let's just
target one of the ones that I mentioned between five to 20 employees.
That's going to be 531,000 businesses, that we be able to target. Now,
we're starting off, and this is a huge number. So maybe we're only here
with a land's 0.1%, which sounds like a such a small number. Actually,
that's five companies. If we' to put a 5K deal on those five paid
companies, what'll we looking at is almost 26,000, just by targeting
that not 0. 1% of restaurants in the five to 20 employees category. So
as you can see there, you can have some big numbers coming through from
what looks like a small niche area. Now, so if we get really good at
what we're offering, how we price it, the structure, how we go up from
Northpoint North 1% to North1%. Now, we've gone from five companies up
to 53 pays companies, and again, keeping it on that 5K per deal, we've
now gone to 265,000, just for 0.01% of restaurant companies between
$5,000 to 20 employees. So we're still talking about really small
numbers here. There were able to go through in Target to get the
outcomes. Now, maybe you're more interested in doing one off deals and
you're more interested in using maybe the Vine Code platforms are
lovable or bolt or curse, or anything like this, to build assassin inc
instead. So we're gonna switch it from a 5K per deal to $300 per month,
maybe for a restaurant booking automation, it's got a an automated voice
agent that goes with it. It's got the software to make sure the calend's
book correctly. It can do the seat selection, it's got the emails that
go there, you know, a full stag restaurant service or back end, that
goes through a mons that business. And $300 isn't that much. Now, say
we've still got that 0.01% that we've converted. And if we keep that 53
page companies like we have before, that's now going to be by $16,000
per month that you'd be able to pull through, just by looking at that
specific niche. So when we come back up to this huge diagram here, and
we realize that we were looking at almost 4.8% within that category, and
now we've got all of these different opportunities. It shows you how big
the actual pie is for us to go through. And the reality is there's more
work than people to do it at the moment. And those numbers may have
sound a bit alarming, how we get to them, you, what all of this
different stuff, but we're going to cover that much more later on, you
in much more detail for the market opportunity, chooing your niche or
you'll good out how to price it and much, much more. I just wanted to
reassure you just how big the opportunity is and that we're not
oversurated at the momentance. We're now going to start to look through
my busted, and what's potentially holding you back. drop drop comment
below if you remember, Mythbusters. It was to show you that it was on. A
years ago, you many years ago, all around start testing out to
hypothesis. So I'll be interested to see how many people know that. But
let's go through myth number one. You need to be technical or a
programmer to get results, not true. You need to be able to understand
what businesses need, know which tools, solve which problems, be able to
identify painpoints and problems, and communicate clearly. That's what
people want from you. Okay, what I mentioned is they're looking for that
end result of doesn't make a phone call. he book appointments? Can you
send emails? I't even mate. That's what they want to me, because that's
the problem they have. They don't care if they's using flux image versus
sead versus Kling versus V3 or whatever, anything else in the
background. They just want to know, is going to solve their specific
pain that they're currently gob. So what we need to do is start
developing skills such as problem solving, logical thinking, are
willingness to learn, communication and business ac. If you've heard of
business acen before, it's basically understanding how businesses work,
the different teams that are tied together, how it compares to the
market, and how best practice is being done, sharing lessons, and lot of
this area. And all of these are learnable. You don't need to have them
all in one go right to the start. So take it piece by piece. You don't
need to be an expert from day one and giving rules and building a day.
We're looking to break it down into small, miserable steps and just keep
chipping away. at 1% better every day, you don't to be a full blown
expert by tomorrow. And that's where we come back to that myth, too. The
market is situated, and I don't believe that's true. The big thing that
you're probably noticing on social media is a load of AI influences, but
they're very different to AI practitioners. I'll be surprised if you
actually look through are lots of influences out there, how many of them
actually work with businesses day today and use it versus just exploring
and sharing what they lessons learned are. So that's a big difference
between what the influcers gonna showcase what's out there, versus more
the practition is that actually go through, use it every day, influence
it with businesses, and that can be everything for talking to
businesses, more on a consulting basis, all the way through to visit to
AI in the background. They just want to know, is going to solve their
specific pinpoint that they've currently got. So what we need to do is
start developing skills such as problem solving, logical thinking, a
winningness to learn, communication and business emen. If you've heard
of this Eclmen before, it's basically understanding how businesses work,
the different teams that tied together, how he compares to the market,
and how best practice is being done, sharing lessons, and lots of this
area. And all of these are learnable. You don't need to have them all in
one go right to the start. So take it piece by piece. You don't to be
expert from day one, again, rules and in a day. We're looking to break
it down to small, miserable steps and just keep chilling away at 1%
better every day, you don't need to be a full blown expert by tomorrow.
And that's when we come back to that myth, too. The market is saturated,
and I do believe that's true. The big thing that you'll probably
noticing on social media is a load of AI influers, but they're very
different to AI practitioners. I'd be surprised if you actually look
through, I'm not the influenences out there, how many of them actually
work with businesses need today and use it versus just exploring and
sharing what their lessons nugs are. So that's the big difference
between the influences kind of showcasing what's down there versus more
the petition is that actually go through, use it every day, implement it
with businesses, and that can be everything for all talking to
businesses, more on a consulting basis, all that be through to building
something and handing it over to them, to the actual sassciety bits
where there's so many different areas. You don't have to be pigeonholed
into one. You don't have to just listen to what influ is and what the
market is saying for different aspects, try and understand what you
really enjoy, what your sk set is, and then we canive into that. Now,
the other part of this as well, is, when I think of market saturated, I
think of maybe more annoy your accountant, because I get thousands of
emails, probably every week, saying. To the actual sassite of it's well,
there's so But the influcer's got to showcase it what's out there versus
more the practitioner gives it different to a. And I don't believe
that's true. The big thing that you're probably noticing on social media
is a lot of AI conferences, but they're very different to AI
practitioners. I'll be surprised that if you actually look through are
not the implementers out there, how many of them actually work on
businesses day today and news it versus just exploring and sharing what
their lessons learned are. So that's the big difference between what the
influ is gonna showcase and what's down there versus more the
practitioners that actually go through, use it every day, implement it
with businesses, and that can be everything for talking to businesses,
more on a consulting theis, all the way through to building something
and handing it over to them to the actual side of it as well. There's so
many different areas, you don't have to be pigeonholed into one. You
don't have to just listen to what influcers and what the markets saying
for different aspects, try and understand what you really enjoy, what
your skill set is, and then we can detive into that. Now, the other
partners as well is, when I think of market saturated, I think of maybe
more lawy your accountant, because I get thousands of e emails probably
every week saying, come and be with us with, you know're an accounting
firm. We want you to come and board." And the reality is that there's no
one lawyer to about five businesses in the US. There's about one
accountant to about five businesses in the.S. There's about one web
developed f to about 14 businesses in the U.S. And again, this is the
U.S Cens of State from 2022 exactly the same on. I've not made these
numbers up, there we are nowhere near this level at the moment for AI
solution developers, consultants, risk advisory people, methodology. We
can do AI coaching, training, CAS platform, all of these different
things. I bet you it's nowhere near like those numbers are. The next
myth is that AI will do everything itself, and AI will replace me. Now,
yes, AI is going to replace specific rubbels. That can be physical, AI,
you know, more r robotic size, or it could be more software based AI.
Yes, there are going to be industries impacted, and yes, it is going to
undergo change in the economy as well. But it's not quite there yet.
There's also different reasons that I believe it just won't overtake
everything. And that's because humans are still humans. There's all
these videos on YouTube that you can watch about how to get in shape in
60 days, but people still pay for fitness trailers. You can pick up
loads of loads of eb books. you can watch videos online about subjects
and become a master in it off YouTube, but some people just still want
to buy books. And that's where some of the news are there is a bit fear
mongering, and that's why you're just got to be able to see through it.
usese some common sense, see what your opinion is, again, everyone's got
their own opinion for where you think the market's going to go. But what
it also means is this is also creating more of an opportunity for us as
experts than ever before, but increasing complexity, there's more ways
to fail. The other key part is that time is becoming more and more
valuable for business owners that you're engag with. When we're gonna
run through an example in a second. Also, integration can get harder.
There's gonna be more systems to connect with, there can be more
customization that is in these different platforms to get the outfits
they want. I look at content engineering. That didn't exist a couple
years ago, and now it can help you get some really great outfits within
the AI as well. And the states are getting higher and higher. Businesses
are putting into more and more different areas of businesses, and this
means that it can be more cost if it goes wrong, they don't control
their token usage, it can go out of control, it can, you know massively
increase the costs. And the other keep your minds as well, is your
agency, your consulting firm, your SAS, whatever you want to call it,
that's not competing with Chat GPT. Business owners spending 30 hours
more, learning how to do exactly what you can do for them in a day is
where your opportunity is. They're cheap implementations in place, and
it's not doing the results they actually wanted and breaking. This is
causing them more headache than it's worth. Or they're starting to do
their own DIY solutions, but they never finish them. And that's where
you can win by delivering results faster and better with this headache,
than then trying to get themselves. To show you this in reality, for
example, a lawyer in the EK is around75 pounds an hour, plus UAT, which
is the 20% tax in the UK. So when you equate that to US dollars, it's
about $370 per hour for a lot. Now, I mentioning it was around 30 hours,
maybe just to learn how NA10 works, how to do some prompt engineering,
how to tie together, good workflow, make sure it's optimized, and much,
much more. Well, about 30 hours for a lawyer is going to cost them in
$11,000 of their time, and also lost business opportunities. There's an
odd thing which is there's no such thing as a free lunch, and this is
what we're looking to at. What is their time worth that we're gonna
touch on this on how to do RO pricing and much, much more, but how can
we save them that time and of course, cost that goes with it, so they
can get their output quicker? More eyeball, animalsable for the future.
And that's why a lot of what we're gonna be doing is like the iceberg.
The climb is gonna see the outcome. But what we're doing in the
background is understanding the strategy of what they need it and why
they need it, we're to bug it in, what systems going to connect to we'
training the individuals on how they can use it. That's a huge one and
that's something called change management, because you can plug it in
once. But if everyone uses the old process, it's not going to work, and
it's going to be close as a failure. The other side is AI continuously
needs to be improved, updated, refined, improved, and everything else.
So that's where your support and an ongoing basis is invaluable term.
But more important than anything else is piece of mind. Again, for
example, that's why many of them may fly private, because I know they
can turn up, there's no cancellations, there's no many issues, bring as
much baggages they want. order of this different stuff.? Is the piece of
minding for business owners that you're going to be working with to get
the output? Now, the fourth myth is that you need credentials and
certifications to be opt to sell this. And I don't think so. And the
reason for this is because there's no officials or AI certification at
the moment. There's no cause like being able to do the ballve or an or
ACA from all the accounting size. It's all based on online
certifications at the moment. I'm sure that would change in the future.
But what clients really care about is results versus creduals. Again,
when I left, people wanted to see, can he build it? Can he actually
deliver what he's saying? Because he's got all the credentials that
maybe sit in the background? So that's where, as you go through, you
really need to leave your ego outside of this, and you may be starting
completely from scratch. Everything is going to be results versus
entiddy, your credentials to d. And this is the way we come back to what
your clients care about? They care about can you solve my problem? What
are the results maybe you've gotten with other implementations in the
past? I question's importantly, how much does it cost? And that's gonna
be a big one for lots of the businesses, and that's why we touched on it
in more detail on, how to phrase it and come to the right cost. And
that's why we got this master cost, because we're going through the next
couple of weeks, really learning the tools in debt understanding how to
get the systems set up in place so that we can go through, trying to get
some projects, you know, maybe free at the styles, showing some demos on
YouTube or on your website, or lo or anything like this, to build that
credibility. And then once you start on boarding fines, it's really
looking at, maybe we're getting some testimial, you know, how well did
it go? How can we get the alput? How can we improve it getting some
feedback on your solution and much, much more. And that's where within
the next three months, by doing all of these different steps, you' going
have more credibility, than probably 90% of the AI experts out there on
TikTok, on social media, and Instagram, and all these different parts.
And that's why I come back to influencer versus what maybe is called a
practitioner. There's loads of people out there talking about AI
claiming that they're making hundreds of thousands of dollars a month,
which fair enough, if they can, and they call thets to prove it, I bet
you many of them actually don't. So always look at what can you do what
the businesses actually want? Because when you're going to speak to most
of them out there, most of the smaller, medium sized ones and not of
them just need your help, and they need people to go in with the
expertise to solve the problem they have. So now we're going to cover
what does it actually take? Well, the first thing is you're going to
need 100% self accountability. You're going to need to put this all on
yourself are going through. I can't guarantee you any results. And the
reason for this is because your results will be entirely dependent on
your effort and execution. And that's because discipline is very
different to motivation and continuing and going through. I can't
control the amount of time you're gonna put in and the amount of eff
you're gonna put in, are you gonna follow up with? Are you gonna make
sure that they respons with the different leads? You're gonna keep
looking for different opportunities, reworking your opportunities, keep
reworking for different solutions, pivoting if you need to? Again, we've
got unimited textable coming through and chatting with us, everything
like this, and that's because it's 100% self for capability, as you go
through. The other side of that as well is, I hate to say it, but
sometimes when you give a guarantee like that, you attract the wrong
person who doesn't give 100% effort, who think it's just easy money,
you, cash grabbing one of this sort of stuff, which isn' reality we're
with an uncle and trying to be able to sustainable businesses, build a
good presence around AIation. So that's where we're going to go through
the learning phase of mandering of the tools identifying your a niche,
going through getting your first kinds, building out sales material,
networking, having those conversations, delivering that for projects,
actually building it again, can't unimited tech support. We'll help you
build it out, we'll help you identify problems. We'll have to build it
for you, but we'll go through I'll support you through that entire
journey. And then we go ongoing, improving your internal processes keep.
Can you stream on your own onboard? Can you stream payment processing?
Can you share success stories? How do you land your cl sharing those
winds and much, much more? No. The next problem to run through is some
of these costs that are going to be associated with this. So, what are
some of the starting costs? Well, this is probably the lowest cost
business to start. You're looking at probably less than $100 a month to
start off. You've got your L&M of choice, so maybe your personal chat
GPT accounts, company CPT accounts. You's then either got an alteration,
like any10, or maybe one of the vine coding tools, getting lovable or
bolt to go through and build, or you're looking to build. You have got
some API costs on there as well, and they can there're incredibly cheap
to run because you're gonna shift from that $20 a month to that per
token cost instead. And to put it into perspective on you're working on
something like chap 55, you're looking at around two million tokens,
It's gonna cost around $15 with opening art. If you're looking at around
$1,2 for the million input tokens and around $10 for that alput token.
So again, very different pricing, but that's how we can go through and
optimize it. You can also set up platforms like Stripe for payment,
which is a really good one that's what I use myself, really trust to do
the market you doing is to pay anything to use it. They're just going to
take 2.9% of that transaction, plus only around 30 of that cost as well.
If you're starting off, please just look to use the free tools, CRMs
proposals, and need research. Again, it's gonna be on new at the start,
you can pay for those tools, which we' touch on in a second. For a CRM,
you can do something as simple as Google, to include a resources down
below, so that you can through and set something up. There's a loads of
templates on notion and loads and loads of different platforms, pipe
drive has free accounts that you can go through and use instead.
Proposals, Again, you don't need anything flash or fancy, start off is
something like Google Drive to go through, and write proposals, PDF
them, and get them ready to send out to clients. You don't need anything
for flash or fancy at the start. Lead research. So again, I' still
trying to figure out niche don't go off paying for low to load expensive
tools. News may be linked in to do some research or glass door, or
wherever you need to find the information specific for the niche you're
going after. That could be as simple, as going around Facebook and
looking at the different Facebook groups that exist as well. Now, as you
go through, there will be some more stealing costs to consider. So,
loads of them on here, and you do not need to have everything, but it's
around $400 for some of this stuff. So if you want to have your own
website, that's going to be around $20 per year to have the domain. So
for example, at AI and Aomation.com. That is the domain and that will
cost you around $20 per year. If you want to upgrade to a CRM, again,
maybe you've got more advanced one, you, p drives an extra plugging into
all that, that's likely around $20 what you want. If you want to go
through and need something like panda Dos for proposals, you know,
signing off, doing a bit more automated, that's going to cost you around
$35. He' research, you an Apollo,' Hunter I,' got so many different
ones. They' between $49 and $80 a month. The other key thing that many
people forget about is accounting. This will save you a complete
headache at the end of the year, once you start to go through, and
actually finalize your accounts for the first year, the invoices, how
much money you've made, what you need to declare to the SEC, your HRC,
or whatever your local government is. Now, if you've got a website,
you're also going to need to host it. That'll be around $20 a month, as
well. Now, this one you don't have, it's just an ulional extra for you.
Maybe you want more to new team members, you're going to need a
centralized space to communicate. I run all of mine through Slack, so
that's gonna cost around $7 dollars a month per user per month. So if
you justify that for yourself, maybe use an AI automation, you, anyA 10
agents within snack, that could be a great way to start off. Now, the
other side of that as well is maybe you want that personalized email
address, like you said, at AIAomation agency.com. That's what you want
to email to be. That's going to cost you around $ per month per user, if
you go through, and you something like Google Starter Workspace, which
is going to be more than enough for many of you at the start. If you're
then looking to do some client's outreach, maybe you're focusing through
email, because you want to be able to do the volume, you're going to be
looking at around $25 per year for that new domain. The reason for this
is because, as mentioned, if you have@ AI Aomation agency.com and you
start sending your main email address out to lots of people, you can end
up in spam causing new issues with your actual clients, you can get
blacklisted, so you actually won't send emails and more. And that's why
on we're gonna show you that you can set it up. So for example, get AI
automation agency.com is slightly different, but if still shows your
company sort of main domain, and it won't mean that your main account or
will get blacklisted. And that's why that separate domain is gonna cost
you an extra $25 per year. Now, what you can also do with each of those
sales domains you set up is have five email accounts that you're able to
use with that specific domain. They're going to cost you around $5 per
month each, so it's going to cost you around $25 for all of those email
accounts per domain. So again, if you're stating this up and you're
doing loads of loading loads of emails, that's where you're gonna need
to keep adding those costs up. Now, each email address is gonna be
between 30,000 to 50 emails per day. So you're looking to be able to
send between 150 to 250 emails per domain and associated accounts. Don't
worry if that sounds overly complex. We're gonna touch on that much more
later on. You're also gonna need the email platform to send it out as
well, like instantly AI, and that's gonna start off or around $30 per
month. Now, these three costs, the domain the emails, and the outreach
platform, that's going to be great for doing the volume. But if you want
a more personalized engagement, for example, using LinkedIn, that's
gonna use platforms like Dri 5, which are normally around 50 to $80 a
month, but it's going to mean that you can't send out as many requests
or messages compared to using emails. So that's why it comes back to why
you were gonna touch on meeting a lot later on, because we need to
identify what's really good for what's specific use case. Now, if you
want to go through and maybe make it nice and easy, if your customers to
book appointments with you as well, that's why there's platforms like
calendar out there that are around $12 per use at per month to help
making scheduling, nice and easily. Now, that can sound like a lot.
There's a lot there, lots of different parts and lots of different add
ons, and maybe you need to consider. But there's a different way to do
it. We can also look at another tool that's very populated in the
market, but it's called high level, but you don't have to use this,
again, at the start, I recommend you just using as this as possible,
paying as as possible, because, trust me, in that first year, it's going
be a real roader coaster try and get this all up running, working,
changing, selling, understanding it, and more. But what high level does
is enable us to consolidate a lot of these costs under one subscription
for $97 a month, and that's where you can see all of the different
parts. It includes. So, you can definitely start to look at platforms
like go high level, once you're starting to scale, and really taking
this more seriously, beyond maybe a side hustle. So it brings our costs
down slightly. We're still going to need a few usual ones on there.
Again, the accounting platform isn' uncovered, the actual lead list, you
know, the Apollos, the hunters, they all covered by it. Neither those
messaging services like Slack, your email address is uncovered by it,
and a few others. So that's why you is really good at having a lot of
the, you know, base workloads in there for reaching out to lots and lots
of different people, but it's not for everyone. So that's why I mention
around doing some research into it, finding out if it's really good for
you. I think it's a great platform. I used it as well as many other
people in the space. So just check it out and see if you think you're
gonna get the most out of it. But please, as mentioned, keep your costs
as low at the start, especially for the first couple of weeks, whilst it
goes through, and you get everything set up Again, if you got any
questions, if you want to talk it through, you can book all of the calls
one to one with me and the team to go through and answer, any questions
that you have. Now, the other part, that helps build credibility that we
touched on earlier on, is all around Showcasing your results. Now,
there's a couple of different ways you can do this, and we're gonna
cover this later on in the Masterclass, around the different options, my
set up, and much, much more. Now, there's a free option called O a
studio that you can include on your computer, download it, record
videos, store those, send you all potential p Google Drive link On
you've uploaded, so they can watch it. The other alternative that's very
popular, is a platform called loom, and this is going to enable you to
record your screen, story it online, around $19 a month, but it's a
very, very good option. If you're going to be doing lots and lots of
demos. Some of you may have a professional grade microphone and that's
absolutely okay. We can use platforms like Adobe podcasts, which is
around $10 a month or included in Adobe's Creative cloud. If you've got
that, to really make the audio sounds as good as possible. Even though I
got special microphone here, I still put my audio through just to tidy
it up, and that's why you're listening to now. So I use all of these,
and that's why I recommend it. is some of these costs that are going to
be inssociated with this. So, what are some of the starter costs? Well,
this is probably the lowest cost business to start. You're looking at
probably less than $100 a month to start.. So we've covered so much so
far. What are some of the skills you're gonna need to develop, though?
Again, you don't need all of these from day one. There's just some key.
You should keep in mind,. Stop practicing. Again, now 1% better every
single day. Well, I' got 10 here, and my knowing means is this
exhausting. But I think the most important skill on here, without a
doubt in my opinion, is critical thinking. It needs to make sure that
you're reassessing the outputs, what people are saying, you're engaging
your brain, you're analyzing how this situation looks for problems, the
viible people, you're able to do some real thinking around everything in
the space. You don't want to switch your brain off, and everything over
to AI or get everything I'm saying. Make sure you do your own research,
I'll share the data from the census of 202 That's only for America. If
you find it from HRC in the UK or the different platforms in Europe,
South America, and China, Russ or whatever else, make sure you're always
looking in your specific location, Also, please don't take what I say as
gospel. Again, challengeing me, I've always listening to new ideas. I've
always opened for that anymore, but also, don't take what everyone else
says online, as D. And lots of people are online around what they earn
works, what doesn't work, so please take everything with what we ainch
is coming. I say is making sure that you're taking it with a grain.
We're taking bits of it here and there, we're doing our diligence,
checking, understanding, and more. The next one is problem solving, and
this is key, because we've discussed lots of not so far. It's been need
to make sure that we understand what business is problems are, how we
can solve them, what tools solve, what problem, how we can actually give
some value back to the customer and more. If you can solve a problem,
you'll become a very rich man, or lady, because you'll be able to go
through and help businesses out. The next one is communication. Now,
this is really key. You don't need to be a world class speaker from day
one, what you do need is to be able to understand and explain what
you're building, what you're sell, almost to a 10 year old. That's what
you need to be able to do. So, again, if you're not sure how to do that,
use AI. Put your, you, turn on the voice, chat to chat to your claw and
say, "Th is what I'm doing. This is how I'm sell it. This is the benefit
of a business. This is how much I'm going to cost, and get it to give
you the results. Don't think that you need to have everything for
yourself from day one. Get it to embody certain personas, maybe like
Alex Hermosia in the way that he speaks. Get AI to assume that persona
and play it back to you. For how a 10 year old would understand it,
because it's much easier to increase the complexity in your description
with someone who's brand new to AI versus overcomplicated, and then try
and backtrack to make sure they understand what you're selling. Again,
voice AI. They don't to know how yellowLM works, what you're able to do
with it, how you connect it, to your ownappe retail, all do these
different things, starts off simple. This AI agent, or this AI employee,
is able to answer the phone for you 24 and book appointments. That's
very easy to understand, versus this AI agent powered by Vapian and a
turn is able to connect to Google Drive or.com to be able to book
appointment for you, 24365 with email notifications as well. Can you see
the difference between the two? What is much easier to understand Hand
grasp straightway versus the complex and technical answer instead. You
can always, as mentioned, once you've done that simple explanation of
this is a voice agent, the book's appointments 247, they may turn around
and say, brilliant. How does that work? Well, tell me more, the key part
is they've understood the outcome that they're getting at the start. The
next one is cult Engineering. Some say this is dead, some say this is
more than ever. What I want you to understand from this, though, is the
importance of being able to communicate with AI in the clearest way
possible, or this will also help you do is understand how the AIs are
producing their results, because then you can use more of a scientific
method to get to the outputs more consistently every single time. We've
got an entire masterclass in the community, all around from to
engineering. There's included no extra costs, so please check that out
to get the best outputs possible. The next one is one platform. Now,
this is going to be incredibly hard for salt, and I understand that,
because there's loots and lootes, shiny objects and brand new platforms
being released every single day. What you want to do is be aware of
them, but become of real expert in one tool first. So, for example,
we've got the NA10 Masterclass in the community. If you want to know how
to build the best NA10 Aomation workflows, start there and go one by one
and become a real expert in any10 and automation. Then expand to a skill
set as you go through and learn new things. Don't try and learn
everything in one go because there's so many different things. Break it
down to manageable steps, think big, start small, and just iterate
through. The next one is resilience. And this is really important,
because you're going to get lots of maybe negative comments around AI
because of the fear that people are losing their jobs, they' schoppers,
they call it coming out of AI for the quality of the images or the
videos, Again, you need to be able to push past that, keep putting your
foot forward one step at time. It's not going to be easy, but you're
gonna get there in the end. Again, we're going to cover that a little
bit, one more of a philosophical stand before we move on to the next
module. The other side is risk and ethics. You need to understand what
your boundaries are, what you're willing to do and not do. For example,
there are some people that are happy to work in the defense base with AI
and some that arms. You need to understand some of the rules and
regulations that sit around AI as well. For example, in Europe, there's
the EUAI, so you need to understand that if you're operating there,
versus what's happening maybe in America, or you've got Australia, can
lose of different ones. You've got to make sure that you understand
them. So you're not building an implementing solutions that go against
any ethics or rules or laws or anything like that as well. Next up is
system thinking. You need to be able to understand how different
processes tied together for the specific solution you're building. So
you need to make sure that if it's going to have a handoff to a person,
what is that person going to be doing, how they like to receive it, when
they're going to be to certain threshold. So for example, if you're
doing something for finance, maybe if there's an invoice over $50,000,
it needs to be sent for a human for approval. So it's starting to break
it down and really think end to end of that process, where can we use
AI? can we use it for? Where are we gonna need a human involved? Where
we gonna need a handoff, and much more? One of the other signs that many
people forget, is continuous improvement. You always need to be
learning. You need to make sure that you put your ego at the door, the
minute you start this process because you need to accept that you don't
know what you don't know, and you're never gonna be expert in AI, to be
honest, because there's always going to be new involvements. There's
always going to be new tools, you need to also make sure that if you're
building anything for clients, maybe you've got that monthly retainer so
you can go back, show them how it works and improve it and change it and
update it and so on, and so forth. And also, but not is. Now, this is
something that, I struggle with and be learning constantly around it,
but it is how you're actually able to sell to people and businesses.
This is an entire skill in itself, and it's going to take years and
years and years become a master salesesperson. So definitely, if you
find someone who's good at it, work with them as much as possible, as
long as you can trust them as well. One thing that's really great for
sales is definitely try and put that trust up front again, maybe you can
turn the tool on for a month and then you can go through and try it
before you start charging them. Or you can start to shoot the demos. You
can meet them once one, you can explain how it works. There's load of
different things to help build it. But sales a really key skill. You're
going to need to start to develop as well. now, I want to cav, but
nobody really talks about. And that's because there's you a lot of
things that you'll go to face. You're going to face a lot of objection.
Most outreach is going to be ignored. hoping for those response, but
then always guaranteed. You'll also find that you may have an impulse
syndrome. And that's who am I to charge for this? You don't throw me
worthy for what you're doing. That's okay, it happens to all of us.
There's a great book called Psycho Cybernetics, which I include the link
down, so that you can find it. There's loads of talks on like this.,
that's why I like some data driven and everything we do. Because if we
can say that your employees's time is50 an hour, but we can save you 100
hours, then you can work out a costs for them nice and easily. You need
to detach you from the business and the solution, because they're
completely different. What you are willing to pay is different to what
someone else is willing to pay. They said the headache that it may solve
for that specific business. The other side is technical frustration.
Things are not going to work, first time, every time. They need to be
okay with that. That's why we mentioned around critical thinking and
problem solving earlier on, because you need to make sure that you could
work past that. The other thing that you'll like it in a face right at
the start is what's called Feast and famine cycos. You'll probably have
no signs for a week, then you'll have 10 clines to turn up, or at one
time, then you have nothing to get for three weeks, then you have
another 30 kind of the turn up I want to work with you, so that's why
you get these cycles throughout the business year. So what you'll find
is there will be, real times that you work, all the hours of the day,
every single day, every single minute, which I still go through every
single year, and then you'll find times in the summer when everyone's on
holiday, but maybe you can take extra hour back here or there to enjoy
some time outside or to rework youring or anything like this, to really
find the best way to make it more consistent. That's also why you should
look at having that monthly service challenge with maybe your business,
so that you can get that consistent, repeatable income in the future as
well. The last, but not least, is the comparison trap. Please, please,
please, realize that social media isn't a reality if you haven't
already. Take everything you there with a pinch of salt, always verify
cross reference, Again, if you can't ignore the news as much as possible
or get trust the news sources, then definitely do that versus just
consuming everything that comes through the door because it's very
different in the world today, even with the AI deep and everything out
there, for what do I want to do. So the question is, are you ready?
We've covered a lot over the last couple of slides there, but really
want to do is sit down and ask yourself these questions. Can you handle
hearing no, 20 times to get that one, yes? Are you okay with figuring
things out when you get stuck? Again, you can come to ask you've got the
text, we'll go through and help you build it, help you problem solve,
and more. The other side is motivated. Now, I always prefer discipline,
over motivation, but what you need to make sure is that you're able to
continue regardless without seeing immediate results. Again, you want to
be in this with a non versus trying to do a real quick w money, which
isn't reality. You need to think that it's going to take a good couple
of months to get some decent money coming through. Am I going to look
stupid wh learning That's another big one? Like I said, ego at the door,
forget everything that you know, assume you know nothing, and that's the
start to build up from. And then finally, can you stick with this for
three to six months? In reality, that's not a huge amount of time, but
you need to be able to make sure that as we mentioned earlier, you can
keep sticking with it, keep hunting yourself, you writing a letter to
yourself, which will do later. How you going to yourself in three months
in six months, because you need to be able to keep going at it again and
again, and again, and again, because that last month may just be the
one. And to you I mean there's a bit of a successful, you know, we've
got action, steel and timing. All of these are going to take a part of
your success. Sometimes I've had business deals just because I was in
the right place at the right time. Sometimes because I did it hours
hours and hours every day, the action led to that opportunity coming
through. sometimes you just got a really good skill, you can
demonstrate, maybe you've got lots of expertise in a specific area or
specific niche, you'll be able to go through and find that success. And
success is all about action. consistency over skill is key. And to show
you what I mean by this is Steven Spielberg was rejected three times by
Southern California University before he became a director. It took
Tim's 25 times before a publisher would actually accept his book, which
is now gone on to sell millions and millions of copies. If we skips, the
founder of Pandora, the jewelrylace brand, approached 300 investors
before he got funding. Richard Branson, the UK entrepreneur for Virgin
Atlantic, and all these different groups, launched hundreds of companies
before he had the wonder, R. KFC was turned down 1,09 times for his
recipe. Sylvester Stedi was rejected 1500 times when he was trying to
sell his script, ". James Dyson, the Hoover person, 5,16 prototypes
before he had the one, the cracked, and the most famous one is Thomas,
because he made more on the other, but regardless, 10,000 times, he
tried to create a light bulb before that 10,000 and1st was a success.
So's the question you need to ask yourself, is how many times you
willing to try before you hit that jackpot? And there's an odd saying
from a Chinese philosopher Confucius, which I think is something that
still brings true today, which is those who think they can and those who
think they can't, are usually right. So I want you to keep that in mind,
because if you give it 110%, you keep going through, keep tripping away
every single day, you will get a breakthrough at some point. Okay,
that's why I find it really deceptive when some people give guarantees,
because it could be within one week, it could be in three weeks, it
could be in six, 9, 12, whatever it may be, what you really know, you
keep giving it 110, you keep putting it forward, you keep putting the
work every single day, you will find that success at some point. So I
hope' inspire you. I hope you're excited to go through and learn how to
be able a very own AI and alternation company and we've got all of the
different pathways as well, so definitely choose one of your most
excited for, and I look forward to seeing you in the next video.
Killing. Influcer marketing., type in your website. Today. We officially
kill. Influencer marketing. Fast Lane.yp in your website, and the
influcer you want to make. It's that simple. In seconds, you have your
real gift. Not the AI slop when you get everywhere else. Plus, you
actually Tracking calories is literally so hard. Now, let's take a step.
further and make some content in our tinder for marketing. On, a
trending piece of content. On the right, content already made with your
influencer, drawn from that exact trending video. As you can see, we
copy why that video went viral, then we clone it with your products
contacts. If you swipe it right, the video gets posted straight to
TikTok, Instagram, and YouTube. Fastlane only makes content and trending
formats, just like this slidesh. Plus, they're an easy way to promote
your product. Yes, it's that easy. Welcome to the world Millie Lips. But
why stop it Millie? Today. we officially... So, we've covered so much so
far. What are some of the skills you're gonna need to develop, though?
Again, you don't need all of these from day one. There's just some key
ones that you should keep in mind, start practice. and understand. But
now I want to cover what nobody really talks about. And that's because
there's In this way we're going to be talking about? Fine. what we're
gonna be talking about, finding your edge. Now, this is gonna be a
shorter video compared to some of the other ones as we walk through the
different sections of the masterclass, because it's all about spending
the time with yourself and really reflecting on what's you're here to
date so far and where you want to go in the future. But the first thing
I want to touch on is the backwards approach, the most people are taking
at the maintance. What they're doing is they're looking on social media,
YouTube, TikTok, Instagram, all of these different places, or they're
picking a market first, and then they're trying to compete. This is
causing a lot of headaches because they're looking at Sass'ault right
now, I heard there's money in maybe a specific sector, or everyone needs
marketing services if it's plastered all over the internse. And what
this means is we causing a problem where we're starting from scratch in
a crowded space with no real advantage. What's the different of yourself
compared to maybe some of the other people already out there? No, AI is
still very brand new for a lot of companies out there, so you can
definitely take advantage at the moment. So what we want to do instead
is start with what you actually have. So isn't what you want to have?
But it is what you already have that maybe others don't. So that can be
a myriad of things. We can be direct to access to certain decision
makers, that could be, if you know lots of law firs into your local
area, it could be that you've got some of family friends, it could be
your own friends or other business owners, or anything else. Maybe you
spend many, many years within a specific industry or service, so you've
got extensive knowledge on specific problems. Maybe you're just really
interested in different services platforms, you really detged into
something that's maybe not your day to day job, and you spotted a
consistent problem to do with that as well. Maybe you've got some
existing relationships within a particular industry, just because you
work within real estate, maybe doesn't mean you know lots of builders or
contractors, you know anything like that that you could also leverage
within your network as well. We're all about trying to work smarter, but
we are going to keeping to work hard as well. One of the great ones as
well is if you've actually control of a business, that can be your own
one, maybe you changing improvement in incorporating AI, or actually,
again, your family friends that you can get involved with, maybe you an
investor in some, you can start to go through and see how AI will be
incorporated into that. The years of experience will be putting you
ahead of 99% of people because that would take them years to replicate
to get to the exact same point that you are today. So experience is
definitely great. What's going to keep you going, though, is definitely
having a genuine interest that keeps you engaged and won't make you
want, because you're going to be working 247 365, definitely for the
first year. Again, this is a marathon, not to spri, so we need to make
sure that we' genuinely interested in what we're doing day to day,
versus seeing this in more of a quick money grab, because it's
definitely not that if you want to be able to sustain business. You can
scale it up quickly, but again that ties into getting guards access to
decision makers, sporting really good gaps in the market, great
branding, working hard, which are the forming up we're going to touch on
later on. The next one is willingness to outwork the competition. You've
got to be able to go that extra mark compared to maybe someone else,
especially at the start to pick your foot, and make a mark in the market
step. and again, we' also wanted to make sure that we're looking at
market that's able to sustain your ambition, again, we're going to talk
about pivoting and shifting your later on in the master classes, but
that's going to help us really identify actually going after a really
good target market in the first place. But how do we take these
advantages forwards? Well, these are the key three pillars that I
wanting to remember, passion, hard work, and the right market, because
they're gonna enable you to generate a real concrete foundation for the
future. The advantages that we just discussed, you can stack them over
time, the willing to our work people, getting the expertise and the
experience, meeting decision makers and more, they will stack over time.
Don't feel like you to have everything done by day one. The hard work is
really key. This is a marath, not ari. We're going to be doing this over
weeks and months. We're not talking about a million dollars, million
pounds within the first week. It definitely can happen, but it's more of
the exception versus the rule and that right market. We're gonna be
touching on that much more lead to wrong in the Master classes, all
around how to spots your specific market, the target market details,
might we just discussed your experiences will, taking that
consideration, the next modules all around the find your customer
persona, so we can really understand who we targeting. And I want you to
remember this story from Marcus Erregulus. Look, within, within, is the
foundation of good and it will ever bubble up, if thou wilt ever dig. So
what we need to be doing here is almost holding a mirror up to
ourselves. This is not an intactory it to business or automation AI, but
it's aoric approach. They'll want to incorporate. Again, I meant to
write back at the start, 100% self accountability. We want to be making
sure they're looking within ourselves, being honest our sales, what we
do enjoy, to enjoy, and where we think there's opportunity. And to help
you with that, we got this opport include. We need to copy it to your
Google Drive, but then we're going to go through step by step. We're
going to see what you already have access to, maybe you know some
business owners, coworkers, you can actually fill in some information
around them in here. We can add more and more wise we need. We've also
got other experience in here. Maybe you've got some money in people to
past, maybe the time investments of the start. We'll get you into closed
door networking groups and much more. Maybe you'll need a physical space
on location, like a retail park that has lots of businesses already in
there that you could go and chat to over lunch. If you come down to, now
we'll get into Section two, all around what you actually know. So you
want to be as honest with yourself as possible. No one else is going to
see this, you're using this for yourself, to read a reflect to where you
are and how we're going to bridge that gap to where you want to go. So,
reach yourself. You want to fit out around three or four experiences. So
experience one, what is your role in? What industry was it in? How big
was the company? How long were you there? What did you actually do day
today? What was did you solve? What were you really good at? How did you
the industry all the space? Again, we want to try to do that for three
or four different roles. As you go through you'll start to see
similarities between them and that's go. That's what we're trying to
bring out. So now we can come down to section three. This is who you
know. And you'd be surprised how many people actually come through from
a referral program when you start off. A lot of the AI Aation businesses
start off with building that trust with and a family friends,
colleagues, someone that they have a lead with to get to their first
clients. After that, then they start doing a lot better cold outreach
because they really delivered one. They got some very confident
experience and his starts to go from there. So think about people you
actually you actually have a relationship with, not just someone you met
at a conference five years ago on LinkedIn. All we want to do down here
is we want to start adding them in by industry. We can also look at here
as well is we're going to be doing their potential roles as a, and you
may end up writing people's names a couple of times or duplicating them
a couple of times, copy and paste, but that's because it means we're
really starting to identify who we know, what they could do, what their
roles are in companies, how well we actually know them, do we have any
gaps, who can we trust? Because don't forget we can use these people,
both those actual clients. But we could also use them as sounding
boards, i testing ideas against if we have problems in the If we come
down here, we're then going to start looking at who can send a new
business?" So for example, if you start pring up with an accountant,
that accountant's not going to be delivering AI oration solutions. You'd
be able to deliver work for the clients, and then you start to meet and
engage other businesses, you can then refer to work to them. Again, that
can be a relationship that you build with local other businesses, you
can reach out to other people that live in your friends or family group
or old colleagues or anyone else that you know will be able to send
maybe some business your way. Then we want to look at the advisors. So
who do you actually trust? What are they good at and how well do you
know them? We want to be making sure they're taking the sound advice
from people that we want to be like or trust or know that they have the
best interests of us at heart. But again, 100% self accountability and
everything we do from here on out this journey is yours and yours. We
can get help from friends and family and loved ones, but it's still
going to be your decisions at the end of the day. technical people. So
maybe you've got someone to spend, you know, 10 years in the IT industry
that you've lost lots and lots of technical questions to. That's going
to be a great person to listen down here, but it doesn't just have to be
AI and automation. Maybe you knows someone like we mentioned who's a
really good lawyer. That's going to be a specific person with a specific
technical expertise, that's going to help us sew to clients. Maybe we
need that for the actual output. Maybe you don't specialize in platforms
like Microsoft power automate, or UIP will be imp prim, orate anywhere
any of these platforms, but if you know someone that does, you can trade
opportunities back and forth, because we're going to touch on it later
on, you can't be an expert in everything. We're going to want to
specialize at the start and really nail down exactly who we want to work
with and why. Section 4 is going to be all about what you're actually
good at. So we're going to be looking through a couple of different
parts. What are you, again, 100% honest with yourself? Do you know how
to manage products? Do you know how to understand and manipulate and
analy data? How are you implementing your systems, making processes
better, figuring out what customers actually want? You don't have to be
and I'm expecting you to do 10 out to 10 on all of these, but what we're
looking at is where there are gaps in our armor. We're looking at how
can we identify what's potentially missing, we need to do, maybe some
trading, some coaching. We've got lots of materials in the master
classes within the community, as well as there's of millions of YouTube
videos out there, there will help us progress and develop those skills.
The industry knowledge, are you going to be working in a specific
industry? For example, we've got a couple listed out here. There's many
more and you can add them in there if you want to, but maybe you find
that you've got a five in tech, you've got a tend in healthcare, a two
in banking and a three in retail and online stores. Well then you can
easily see, if you've got a 10 in healthcare, you don' want to go after
that. It's probably a top opportunity, tied in with some of the people
that you know. So it may sound like we're seeing stuff that you already
know, that's part of what you need. Because like we saw with that crote,
but first looking within, before we start to do, the work ourselves.
Then I want us to come down and list out what you're generally
interested in, because why this is really good is you're going to
explain what you care about, why you care about it so much, why you
spend so much time on this, because what you'll actually start to see is
there be some opportunities for you to connect with people in specific
niches. Again, the release calm social settings. I've been to you, 24
hours in France and you'll meet to some of the people you can just bump
into and have a chat. And when you've got the same interest as other
people, you can connect the conversation flows, but also tying back to
the advantages, we want to be having this as a marathon ofs and this is
going to sustain us. We'll be interested in what we really, truly
enjoying to wake up with and do Dean and day up? The next farm is real
advancous. Where do you really have the advantage over other people
based on what you've done to date? So, like we discussed a bit earlier
on, do you own your control of business? Do you have deep expertise or a
good network in a specific industry? Do you have a really strong
interest? You've got so many other ones that we saw back here, that
you'd be able to use as an advantage to get ahead. Again, these are
interesting examples, you don't have to use these word for words, you
can go through and add another one in there. If you out, you've got
another advantage, we haven't listed in here. So now we're gonna come
down to section six. And this is gonna be a reality check. So what
you've done is you probably spend 45 minutes an hour going through all
of the points up front. What we're looking at here is, can we really
identify a specific problem that people have? based on what we know, can
we go through and solve it? Do we know who maybe we would pay for that?
Again, that can be names, that can be, you know, local businesses that
maybe you would approach who would be the right person to reach out to.
If this is maybe be a growing market and more. You don't need to worry
about having this completely in here, because we're gonna go through
that in the next modelules around defining your ICP, ideal customer
profile, as well as going through the one line of pitches and much much
more. We're going to your exact offering for week two owards. Next, I
want you to come down here, because what we need to do is have a few dos
and dos. What'll we don't want to do is try and convince ourselves of
advantages we don't really have. We don't want to just pick something
because it' trendy, or go after markets where you know nobody actually
exists. We don't want to also focus on our advantages or ignore where
people are actually spending money. A good example of this is there' so
much money being spent on back office activities, i.e. HR finance,
customer support for many, many businesses, and you can simple work that
can go for a couple of for AIation. If we come down, good signs that' on
the right track. We've been able to identify from specific example
people who would pay for some solutions, you, you a rough problem the
data you have, you trust some people's opinions. You've got people
coming to you about advice, because you're interested, you enthiastic,
and you can go and chat to the decision, make a direct thing. So coming
down here, you pick aiche right down? I'm going to be truly honest with
you. This is going to be a start to idea, because what we want to do in
him is really think of maybe a market, you, a rough problem that we're
going after, versus having it completely nailed down which we're going
to do it later on. Why want you to do it in him? is think of the niche
as in, I spend many, many years in this industry to solve this problem.
Think of it that way when you write this down, or when you're looking at
niche, maybe you've got some great experience with a specific
technology, we can start off without going too specific into what we'
able to do. You, if you really to a10 orap retail relevance or any of
the image generators, we can use that as a real advantage for later on.
And then we're going to come down, because what we want to look at are
some of the next steps. Where do you have those weaknesses, how can we
work on them over the next month, or three months? Where do we need to
deep dive into to really strengthen our advantages? Do we need to do
some industry research, some market research, do we need to speak to a
few more people to really understand if there's gap do we need to
establish some more interest in the automation in aospace and much, much
more. And there's nothing wrong with not having a clear yet. We has so
many people that talk about from day one who' to know exactly what ones
sell. That's not true. But what we're looking at here is that we're
building our foundations, layer modular module a week, until we're ready
to press go and actually start launching our AI and automation Service
solution SAS consultants, Advisors, coaches, training, your
opportunities. We're gonna get there in the end. Again, Marathon, lots
of spread. Let's take it one step together, and if you're not sure about
anything that we've just covered, reach out to myself and the team, all
your get it sorted for you. And just remember, to me, I always see
passion and hard work, pin overcome everything. You're gonna outwork,
outiver,.ots and lots of other people there. Out there, they may have
some more experience than you already. So passion and hard work, that's
what real foundation of everything. So let's jump into the next modules
or around defining a customer of persona. In this module, we're going to
be walking through, defining your very own ICP and customer problems in
the right way. So the first question you probably call for me is what
does ICP be, or want to walk up through three parts first before we get
to that? So the first part is we need to ask ourselves two key
questions. Who are we specifically going to be selling to and then what
problem are we going to be solving for them? These are going to be the
backbone, two key questions that we need to keep in mind throughout this
entire process? Because this means we're not going to be trying to sell
everything to everyone at the start. This exercise helps us really
define who we're looking to sell to, and the problem we're trying to
sell for them. So what does ICP stand for? Well, it's ideal, customer
profile. And what this means is we are going to define a specific
problem that you are able to solve, that you can afford your specific
solution, you're actually able to reach them, and we're going to touch
on different ways to do that later on. They are going to actually get
value out of the solution you implement for them, or the different ways
of working, whether it's SAS, and actual implemented platform or
anything else. But also the other thing that's really key to keep in
mind is that you really actually want to work with these tiger
customers. And that's why most people are getting ICP wrong, because
they haven't actually gone through and really defined what good looks
like for them. Most of the time, people's messaging is actually too
broad. So what do I mean by that? Well, for example, saying that you
focus on small businesses that need automation or commerce companies or
professional services firms are too broad to target effectively.
Because, for example, within each of those different categories, there's
going to be different sub-segments or subindustries. For example, within
e- commer, you're looking at clothing, or are you looking at some of
skincare? Are you looking at other platforms? Are you shopperify
specific, you other ones out there? So there's loads and loads of
different sub- elements within each of these. The reason that this is
important is because you can't afford to reach everyone, and the reason
for this is because you're messaging won't actually resonate with
anyone, because you're being too broad to actually capture any
attention. On that same train of thought, the second most com problem is
that people are too vague. So, business owners are overwhelmed, is the
problem statement. That could be literally any business area. It doesn't
really torture a specific business category, your company type, boo
you're trying to target. Compies that want to scale Again, is it a
specific number? Are they looking to scale in a specific department? You
know, customer service, all of these different elements. Teams that need
to be more efficient. Again, which team which department, what industry?
We need to make sure that we're being a lot more specific with this? And
that's because if we say everyone, that can be really overwhelming to
you, but also, everyone feels overwhelmed or everyone wants to scale,
and they're not really specific problem, you can build a solution for.
And that leads us on to a third most common problem, which is that many
people don't actually target a specific problem as well. So companies
working with 50, with 10 to 50 employees. That's not a problem. That's a
company size, which is better than what we have before, but it's still
not a problem. or business is making 500K to 2 million. It's not a
business problem. It's more of a location in size. It doesn't really
tell you more problems they're having for again located in the US.
There's something like 39 million Google Lance profiles individuals that
you can talk about within the US alone. So how nurse do you really down
for that specific one? And that leads us on how they actually build out
an ICP. And that's because your ICP isn't who they are, but actually, is
about what problems they have and whether or not you can reach them and
how you solve it. So a proper ICP has four components. The first one is
what we call for graphics, but this sounds quite technical, but it's
actually quite simple. And what we're doing with this specific element,
it would be really trying to define that specific company persona we're
going after. So, what specific type of company is it? Are they in a
specific industry or vertical do we need to target? And it is there a
specific subiche within that industry? We want to really rev on. So, for
example, what specific type of company, we could say that it's a Northm
and that's the sort of industry vertical that they're all in. And then
within that, we only want to work with the only specializing divorce
lawyers to actually go through and complete that process. So, for
example, in independent insurance agency with three to eight license
agents, so that's the company science, with one to five million in
annual revenue, managing about $200 to 500 active policies operating in
local offices in suburban markets with a mix of in-person and framebased
client service. Can you see how that's are not more specific for what
we' be going after versus insurance agents within Arkansas or anything
like this, which is a lot more higher level? The next armc is a specific
scenario. So what do we mean by this? Well, more conditions make them
need the solution that you're offering now versus later. We're then also
going to look at, is this an ongoing issue, a seasonal issue, or events
triggered? What I mean by event triggered is it's happening in a
specificuations or scenarios? So for example, if I release a load of
tickets to go to an event, that event is one time to come to an event,
maybe an inperson meet up, that's going to be, can you see have us a one
to five million in annual that is a law firm, and that's the sort of
industryvert that they're all in. And then within that, we only want to
work with the only specialized in divorce lawyers to actually go through
and complete that process. So, for example, an independent insurance
agency with three to eight license agents, so that's the company
science, with one to 5 million in annual revenue, managing about $200 to
500 active policies operating in local offices in suburban markets with
a mix of in-person and framebased client service. Can you see how that's
are not more specific for what we be going after, versus insurance
agents within Arkansas or anything like this, which is a lot, but more
higher level. The next arm is a specific scenario. So what do you mean
by this? Well, more conditions make them need the solution that you're
offering now versus later? We're then also going toate, is this an
ongoing issue, a seasonal issue, or event triggered? What I mean by
event triggered is it's happening in a specific situations, or
scenarios? So, for example, if I release a load of tickets to go to an
event, that event is one time to come to an event, maybe an in person
meet up, that's going to be one event and that's going to course the
problem. And then also, are there any repeat issues that have been
identified within the business, causing this pain problem? We also want
to take into consideration those painpots. So what is not working in
their current operations? What constraints are they currently hising?
And what is causing the stress or inefficiency in the first place? These
are some great questions to keep in the back of your mind when you're
starting to speak to clients as well, to pull out some insights on how
the business is carrying your brainating, as well as any potential
solutions that you can implement as well. So, for example, the way we
could phrase this is experiencing reoccurring volume spikes, so that is
what's causing this, that could be seasonal or cyclical, or growth
driven. Then we're saying the specific problem is where manual renewal
process breaks down. That's either because they're constantly trading
new hives who struggle with the insurance specific workloads, or it's
taking up a lot of time for the senior of staff. that could be the owner
of the business, managing directors, all of these different ones,
causing them to work on this process for multiple hours, every single
week, during the peak periods. And again, if it's not a critical value
as part of the business, that's where we want to go through and see how
AI and autation could take over, this specific problem. And there we
come to the specific, expensive problem. So they need to be more
productive, is not a problem. So we come to the specific expensive
problem. So they need to be more productive, is not a problem statement.
Policy renewal, management, and cl communication is. So you can see how
we're breaking it down. almost like an onion where we're going through
and starting off with the information about the company, i.e. three to
eight agents, you know a couple of million in revenue, within coming
down again and saying it's seasonal policy ren management. The issue
within seasonal spikes. And now we're saying that we know that specific
problem that they have is policy renewal management and client
communication. The reason inclin communication is in there as well is
because of course, if they're spending time on the tedious manual
filling out of forms, they're not speaking to existing clients or
identifying new clients as well. So that's how we can go through it and
start to define that specific problem. So what is that task or problem?
They're experiencing. Who on their team is doing the work and how often
is this problem happening? So an example would be spending 20 to 25
hours per week or manual policy, renewal management. It's costing them
between $6,000 to $9,000 a month because of labor and lost
opportunities, inconsistent followout, and they've tried virtually
assistance, but they have some quality issues and some CRM automation,
but it was too complex for them to implement, preventing and causing
burnouts. So now we can go through the first three, and the last key
part is how are we going to reach them? Sorry, how many people do you
know, fitting into this ICP and do you know them personally? Can you get
introduced to mutual connections or actually, can you reach out to them
without experiencing gatekeepers? Any example of this is you being up to
reach out to a CEO directly, first as you having to reach out to their
assistant, to them in two, sometime with a CEO. Now, how do you define
that? Well, I worked an insurance agency for four years and personally
know 15 agency owners. So you know you're able to have the industry
experience and you know you've got the direct details for that specific
insurance company industry. They're also members, are the partner club,
or the state insurance Agencies Association, which has monthly events,
so you know you can go through to them, actually, have a chat with them
there. We also know that there's a tighteck community, so if we get one
good job in there's gonna be lots of strong referrals, we know the
decision maker is that owner and we're able to reach to them directly
through our network. And we've made it easy for you. We've got the
entire template that's going to break this down for you, you, you know,
and what you can access. We're going to find it as a Google driving
download to be able to access the document directly. When you click on
it, you should look something like this, we'll make sure to go through
and constantly updated, but what you'll find in here is over the
different details to really define everything we've just run through.
Make sure to copy this to your drive, to be able to go through and make
the edits. It's going to also be really important. So for example,
you'veed the find Your Edge assessment from on to make sure you really
know not to about yourself, where you' enjoy what you want to target,
for later on. This isn't set in stone though. So if you want to go
through it and change it in the future, you absolutely can. And from a
week two onwards where you really deep dive into the pas and pathways,
you can do that too. So first up, the firm parag graphics. Again, we
want to be specific, not small business or SAS companies. Make sure
you're including here for the specific industry that they work in, i.e.
law firms, then the subiche as well, ie. divorce lawyers. So able to be
really specific in terms. Also pick the size as well. For many of you
starting off, this size in here is likely to be up to around 15,000 to
100 employees maximum. As you scared and grow, you'll be to increase
that number, but when you're starting off, they'll have again 10 to 20
employees when lots of businesses, you start working with. You can also
add in the annualvenue range in here. There's a couple of different ways
of doing this. You can ask aimate through AI. You can find any listings
about a company as well, the SET sort of stuff or any of that, you can
find information about a company and you can also go through these
platforms like LinkedIn to do that as well. We can do transaction volume
per month. So again, how many transactions they're doing, the number of
customers or clients, you can do some estimation on that, number of
locations in any other relevant metric as well. We can identify if
they're too big, too small, or just right. We're going to go through and
list out at least five examples in here of what that company's name is,
how they operate, how they make money, and then any key contacts, you
know you can reach out to. This next section here, you don't have to
include, but that's just is the geography or geographic location
matters. Again, that would be more specific if you're working in the
specific, nic, for example, if it's a company that does in one specific
location and you only want to focus on that, then apply it in. You don't
want to come down and make sure that you add in 10 companies that're
really fit that therographic checkpoint. And this is different to the
one above, because in here we're identing a different business model
structures that we can refer back to you in the future, but this is
going to be the specific ones that we actually want to reach out to. The
second se is we're going to go into the specific parts of their
problem.'re going to be describing their broken processes, how often is
occurring and the one occurring, if it's being impacted by staff or
children? If there's any compliance or regulatory requirements as well?
If it'sed to any seasonal pressures, for example, Black Friday, that's a
really good one for clean it here. If there's anything to do with the
ownership or leadership constraints, and if there's anything else at the
enderior, the name is trigering that process. We also want to go down
and try and identify any patterns that we can. So while we're speaking
to them, we're thinking ourselves, we're looking at how after that
situation occurs, and what makes it really urgent to solve now versus
later on. And that ties us to the buying dynamics, because we want to
know who that main buyer is. Maybe they've got an operations person, a
technical person, there would be the other side of the buyer, and you
always want a champion if possible to really encourage the adoption of
this technology. We can go through it and click the ones that we need in
here just to keep track of it, as well as any budget characteristics.
The next part is going to be all about the problem that you're solving.
So, what is the expected task or process that's broken? Who on their
team handles it now, and how often is it happening? We can then work out
the rough cost to the business for that process. So that will be the
number of hours they spend on it per week, the hourly rates for that
person doing it, and then you can work out the total monthly cost when
you do hours, times by the cost per hour, multiplies by four to work out
that rough monthly cost. You can add some opportunity costs in here as
well, and that's all based on the principle, there's no such thing as a
free lunch, through living at revenue, we're looking at that causes a
fine to them, if they don't do it properly, they've got any other impact
of the business and much, much more. We can then come down to here and
see if they tried anything already, why you failed, what we need to know
about that, who tried, and where they did in the business. We're going
to also consider anything else that will impact the benefits, i.e. their
customer satisfaction, trustpilot schools, the burnout or turnover
staff, being able to grow faster, compitive advantage, or more. And then
finally, we want to come through and just do a checkpoint for that
problem. We want to know that it's actually a problem that they're going
to struggle with. It happens frequently, if possible. They try to solve
it, so it shows their intent, but they need to go to plan. We also know
we can quantify that tent to saving which we're gonna touch on later on
in the weeks. And then we also want to say that we can actually prove
that our solution works, whether that because you don't keep yourself
already, or you've seen it be done online. If you come down here, you
also want to know who the specific people are that we're reaching out
to, the name, the company, how well, you know them, as well as the
ability to reach out to them directly, without the gatekeepers. We also
want to know if they're associated learning communities or memberships
so we can reach out to them there. We also want to know if they've got
any credibility or you've got any credibility or people you know that
you caneverage to give you an intduction to have credibility, because it
relates to their specific situation. We can also look at the referral
potential because of course, if you've got high amounts referral, be
less word for you to do in long run because you're going to get a really
good brand in the market. But they're going go through and just double
check for it all of these conditions met in here, and then we can put it
all together in Section 5 and write out our exact specific thermographic
we're going after, the specific scenario, the specific problem they
have, and why you're able to reach out to it. And the reason we're doing
all of this is because we can come down to our section here, which is
all around coming up with an action plan. So we're gonna have a list of
people we need to reach out to, as well as when you're going to reach
out to them. It can put this for a good sort of month or so time, so
itives you enough time to go through and really analyze all the
materials in the class before reaching out to them. We can also add in
here, just a confirmation to ourselves, so we sense checking, this is
the rightMP to go after, or we need to refine it. And then we can come
up with some next steps, we're going touch on a much more later on in
the setting goals module. So that's everything for this one around
identifying your ideal customer. We want to get a specific as possible
on the businesses. We started to target, but we can always pivot later
on. Now there' Welcome to this module all around, defining a one line
pitcher, or elevator pictures you may have heard about it to actually be
able to say exactly what you do, nice and quickly in a social setting,
or maybe if you're more of a business setting, explaining what you do to
get that hook of interest, to leave them onto more. So, what is a
one-liner pitch? Well, it's a single sentence that explains what you do?
We want it to be clear enough for a 10 year old to understand,eresting
enough that people want to know more, and focuses on the problem you
solve, not the solution, and how he does it. We don't want it to be a
tagline or a slogan, a description of your technology, or filled with
lots of jaron, you a technical words industry speak, when it doesn't
need to be. So what do I mean by this? Well, imagine you're in a cafe,
coffee shop, and someone asks, what do you do? That's exactly what we're
looking to be yourself. You're going to have 10 seconds when someone
asks, what do you do? Tell me about your business, or tell me what your
company does to be able to respond back. All one liner needs to make
them curious, position yourself as solving a real problem and open the
door for a deeper conversation if they're actually interested. Now, this
is the formula that I come up with, and what I recommend you playing
around with, for how you're going to actually define your one lineer
pitch. So we help target a customer that struggles with, expensive
problem, buying, approach, and results. So, bringing that to life, we
use AI to automate business processes. That's good, but not really,
because it doesn't really tell us what we're actually doing and for who.
A good example, that would be reh health insurance agencies, who weigh
20 plus hours per week or manual policy renals, autating the entire
workflow.ain, it' a little bit lengthy, we could probably cut that down
a bit more, but you'll find over time as you get is more and more
conversational. But it's a lot more already to what we do, what we solve
in the outcome, versus the original version. Another example would be we
are assessed platform that e commerce. Again, it doesn't really say what
we do or how we do it. We help shopify supplement brands who lose
tenkeep per month to custom service, emails, automate 80% of support
tickets. So again, a lot more technical, but hopefully it's starting to
show you. There will be a lot more specific on who we help, how we help
them, and the specific problem do they experience. The next example is
around, we provide consulting services for all firms. Again, not good
enough. We help personal injured law firms who spend 15K per month on
paralegal dorine review, cut that cost by 80% of automation. So again,
we're bringing to a that suddenly targeting. The problem will be held in
with. Again, what we actually do at the end result as well. So we're
helping them understand the specific customer tank, we're looking to
work. We're able to quify that specific problems, let' be, the actual
costiv at the time, the percentage, whatever it may be for that specific
process. And we're going to hint to the solution without some of the
technical jargon. So the first thing is defining your target customer. E
on, we did this around defining your ICP, so this is a bit more of a
recap for the next couple of steps. Again, we're being specific.
Independenturance agencies with three to eight agents. Shop five stores
selling supplements doing $1 million a year. Personal injury law firms
with two to five attorneys. The next part is an expensive problem., what
is that they're actually experiencing? The number? We need to quantify.
How often is it happening? What are they doing? How frequently, the
numbers and everything like this? Current. Are they dealing with that
problem now. And then painful is actually causing them to lose out on
opportunities. It's a really high cost to deliver that service or maybe
they're just missing on opportunities, wider in general. And then we go
through and at the last part of the formula, all around stating our
approach. So we don't want to just say, what we do, we want to say the
result, they're going to achieve, autom 80% of the process. Cut that
cost by 70%. Get without tiring more. And that's because the common
mistakes with people trying to do their very own one, is they too vague
or they're too technical? They don't actually explain the problem that
they're going after, and they're not specific enough. So now it's going
to be your turn. We've just gone through around being able to define
your ideal customer persona. So now we want to start to bring into life
where we help this company who struggle with this specific problem by
doing this. You shouldn't be thinking of this probably from scratch. If
you' go through the last module, because you're starting to get an idea
of who you want to target and you're going to help them as well., we're
going through lots of refin, lots of changing, lots of improvement in
the future as well, how to pin it, but this is just a real quick one
liner, on who you help, what they're driving with, and how you're going
to help them as well. Once you've done this, I want you to read your one
liner to someone who goes, absolutely nothing about your business. That
could be someone in your family, a friend, a colleague, whoever, someone
you can ask to. I know they can give you some audioback. The reason for
this is because often, you said you one line of hitch to them, you want
to ask them these three questions. Who do you think I help? What do you
think I solve? And why should they care? Because this is going to make
sure that you set it up correctly, because it's going to enable us to
see how we active be clear enough or what we do, how we help them, and
why they should care. But what we also want to do is make again
conversational where possible, because we're too rigid people don't
always respond to them. So we could originally have weistant insurance
agencies, experiencing capacity, constraints quite formal, quite
professional, really good in certain settings. But it's something that's
a big more conversation, I'll get like that cafe. We have insurance
agencies who get slammed during a reural season. Again all we trying to
do with is one liner, is sparking a little bit of interest from that
person so they want to learn more about what you do and the company.
Another example, we leverage automation to optimize CRM workplace.
Again, good tells us what we do. But we automate the boarding piles of
sales follow up, so you don't have to. There's a much more
conversational tone and you'll probably get a better response with that
second one. Again, being specific where we can. Save time and money,
what? It doesn't really give us anything. We cut 20 hours and save 5K
per month. Instantly we start to see, that's me, I know I need help We
cutting 20 hours of worth of work, or I'm spending 5K on this process, I
need to help. They know my problem, they know how to deal with it. Let's
have some more chats. So where are we going to be using the one-
lineups? Well, we're going to be using them at networking events,
meeting out of business owners. We can use it on our website right to
the top of the homepage, explaining what we do, for who and how we do
it. If you've got social media profiles like LinkedIn or X Twitter, all
of these other ones, Elder, we can use it on X explain what we do. So
for example, I do this, I help these people by doing this. So it helps
people really understand and really quickly what your business does. You
can also put in your email signature, so it jogs people's mind, or if
they have a searching you a Google search, do email search, it will then
put up automation from Alex or automation from John Emily whenever it
may be, so that it keeps you fresh in mind, if they ever need to go
through and search through their in for that specific one. We've also
need it for our pitch decks and sales schools. Again, if you ever go
down this route to trying to chap to customers or investors or anything
like this, you want to make it as simple as possible for what you do,
how you do it, it of course, if you're looking at these private capital
side, they're going to be looking at something called the, so the total
addressable market. So they really want to know who you're going after,
how you're helping them, serving them, and much, much more. Now we got
through, I love that. So I want to give you some quick examples. So the
SAS, we help you to be business sales teams who weighs 10 hours a week
on maggine entry, autom make their CRM updates., it's still quite more
of that technical focus versus the conversational focus, you can go
through and change it as you need. That's where the second one is
better. We help all firks who spend 50K a year on document review, cut
that cost by 70% with AI.ain, it sounds a lot more conversational and
has a really great length that it's not too long to get the up and
e-commerce, we have detC or direct consumer brands who lose 30% of
customers due to abandoned carts and held to recover around months in
lost sales. We' finally for healthcare. We held medical practices to
lose to reduce cancellations by 65%. So if you see here how we're coming
a lot more specific on what we do, how we do it, and where we do it?,
you don't need to be specific all the time. We're going to touch on
networking later on, where is we going to use this? versus it be more
conversational tone, in some different setting. But the key part about
this entire process is it's not set and forget. You're going to and
refine it or over time. This is a really good starting point, because it
makes sure that in your head are really clear on what you do when you're
solving it for, what you're looking to target is the outcome and much,
much more. And that's where we're going to start to come through to this
circular and refinemed brosce. We need to write down three different
versions of your one liner. I don want you to go through it and test it
with three different people outside of your industry. If you can't do it
with three different people, make sure you share it with at least one
person, for the three different iterations. And Alland, which one confer
the most. I would look at doing at least three people to get really good
outputs. Again, we're asking them, is it clear? Would you want to name
more? Because we're trying to trigger them, to really understand the
high level offering that we have before going down into the detail? And
then we want to pick the version against the best response and go
through and refine it over time. Again, this is going to change a lot
over the next coming weeks and months and years as you build a business,
but we want to start off really specific to make sure that you know what
you're building, who you're talking it to, to then identify what that
solution is going to look like. So we need to remember, be specific who
you want to help. We want to quantify the problem with the door sign or
the time sign that you're going to potentially save them. We want to
focus on the result, not to the technology actually enabling that. For
example, we want to say, with that customer service I used in the past,
we have an AI customer support agent is able to resolve queries 24/7.
They don't need to know that it's au retail support agent that
integrates withho as well as other customer service ticking systems, to
be able to identify the knowledge of yada. They don't need to know that.
It's always to start off simple, and then later on the details as you
need it. Again with cooking, we want them to be interested before we get
down into lots of detail. And we want to try to make it conversational
where possible. Now, this isn't a good example, for for example, if he
said something like, I do cool stuff with AI, Inst that person is going
to be like, what's cool stuff they do? Where does they do it? How do
they do it? What tooling are they doing? It's going to start sparking
some questions in their mind to carry all that conversation. So that's
how we can shift it from once we've got it to be call for it the
numbers, who, where, how, when, what everything like this, we can start
to make it a bit more conversational over time. how we want to test it
with real people is absolutely fantastic. We can test it with AI, but
nothing beats testing a human's response, then actually speaking to
humans and seeing vag response. This is going to help us really refine
the actual target market we're doing after, as well as how people are
going to respond to it, straight away. Now, that's often this module, I
hope it's coming clearer in defining our problems and that quick one
like. In this, we're talking about setting and achieving your goals.
This is incredibly important, because we want to be sure that we're
keeping that progress, whether it'll be 1%, every single day.' huge loop
of bounds over the space out a month. We're going to first touch on with
some common mistakes are for setting goals, and then we walking through
a step by step process on how we can achieve the outputs with measurable
targets. So let's jumpstrating. So first things first, why do most
people's personal goals fail? First walk is because they're too fake. I
want to grow my business. That's incredibly fake. They're too ambitious
in unrealistic. Or they're disconnected and not actually linked to
action. And the reason this is really bad is because it's wasting your
time, you could be burning through cash trying to get all of this
working. It's going to make you more confused as well as who you're
trying to sell to, and they're also need to burnout, which is where you
basically are so drained that you just need to step away from the
business entirely. You can also lose a lot of momentum, if you're not
out on what you're doing or why you're doing it, missing opportunities,
having an expanding out there, and is going to reduce your motivations,
keep going to get the end of a result. So the road map, we're going to
be working with, is the smart framework first. Then we're going touch on
a bit aboutKOs, reality testing, and we can reflections. So the first
part, smart goals. Some of you may have heard of this before, and we're
going to break down, watch each letter of means. So first all, we're
going to have specific, measurable, achievable, realistic, and time
bound goal. Sorry, the first part, specific. Again, we want to be
getting as crystal clear as possible or what you want to achieve.
Charity is the most key part when you go through and try and say your
own goals, as well as for business. As you can see, here, growing my
business could be replaced with, acquire 50B to be customers. So law
firms could actually be on board to 10 law firms onto a monthly retain,
a lot more specific. The next part is measurable, and there's an old
saying and something that's definitely true withization background,
which is if you can't measure it, you can't manage it. So again,
revenue, 10K revenue per a month. We're looking at customers, we want to
run 100 signed up. Engagement, we want 30% active users. What if're
working, maybe the financial space, you have the net perator school or
NPS. That's like a trustilider score, for example, and that would be
40+. And that's what you're targeting. The next one is achievable. Do
you want to challenge yourself? Do you don't want to self sabotage? The
reason for this is because you're seeking and lots of people out there
who have achieved are not all claim for achieved a lot in a very short
period of time. You want to make sure you're not trying to achieve maybe
their 1000th or 500 step of where they currently are, but rather
starting with your own step. This is your own journey that you're going
to be going on, and as you can see, from many, many entrepreneurs out
there, you need to make sure you're being realistic with what you've
actually need to make sure what you're sitting is actually achievable
within a specific time frame. So, for example, do you have the
resources? Do you have the skills? And is it within reach? For example,
if you try to compete with Mr. Beast or everything that he was trying to
do, across all the different platforms, to the same quality, and you
don't have, you, millions to spend on the production team, the sets, and
the idea of individuals, everything like that, then that's not realistic
or achievable in the step. It could be the waterrific. one of the
videos, on a smaller scale to start off with. And that's why the next
part comes up, which is we want to be realistic. There's an old saying
from Edward Knockholt, which I think is incredibly in keys to keep in
mind. And that's what I want you to see the world as it is, not as you
wish it to be. Now, this is very different to a visualization, which we
become more than the mindset masterclass, why I want you to be in here?
is try and understand at the moment some of the constraints, some of the
others at your stage, and, of course, the unexpected. I want to keep you
thinking as positive as possible, because you really can achieve
anything if you set the mind to it, you've just got to think of the
different steps of the ladder before you get there. Don't try and jump
to that 500 step, straight away. And that's because if we're being
realistic, it doesn't mean we're being unambbitious. They're not
correlated together. You can be realistic, as well as utra ambitious,
and that's what we want to be. I wouldn't need to have realistic
settings around you at the moment, to have the wildest dreams possible,
that you can go through and have incredible ambition to try and achieve
because, as you see over time, the almost dreams are going to become a
reality. So that's where we come to the time bound, because as the
Napoleon Hill says, a goal is a dream with a deadline. So that's why I't
around being realistic does not mean that you're going to be
unambitious. What it means is that we want to be as ambitious as
possible and have so many dreams and goals we want to achieve, but we
want to put a deadline in place for that happen. So we need to break
that down into a couple of different letters. So for the first one is if
you've got a 12 month plan, I want you to set that as your vision for 12
months. We then need to break that down into quarters. So every three
months, we need to have some key miles stones that we want to achieve.
Now, a milestone is a sort of an action that you complete, a measure
that you hit, for example, a thousand subscribers, it could be a
thousand of your first, you, a nine, whatever you may be, that would be
a milestone you were trying to hit. If we come down again, we want some
really clear objectives on what we're going to do this month, to be able
to achieve that, because then we're going to work backwards and have
weaking actions that we need to complete to achieve these actions. And
the reason for this is because then, it's going to compound over time.
If you do one week incredibly well, that's going to lead to another good
week, another good week, and so and so forth, do not underestimate
momentum being behind you, then you've got one month, turns into another
month, which turns into a quarter that's been good, and then three
quarters four quarter of this combin together is going to make a really
good year for you to have. So how do we bring that all together into a
smart adjective? Well, his an example, we want to reach $15,000 a
monthly revenue by June 30th through acquiring 50 customers at an
average £300 per month value. So this is where we need to be able to
break down on loftiest goal that we have the biggest and wildest dreams
that we have into some simple stages for us to be able to actually
achieve them. one step at a tum. So you don't think you'd be able to,
for example, 50 customers, start off with 10 customers in the first
month. Again, we want to try and keep our sales being pushed, but we
also don't want to over extend our sales at the start, so we lose our
confidence and momentmentum, because trust me, it's going to be harder
than you think. and I really hope's not. I hope you absolutely fly from
day one. The Viking is going to be a bit more changing and you're going
to a set then you really think at the start. So let's go through your
turn now. I want you to start thinking in time frames. There's this
really good thing from Toby Robbins, and what it is is most people
overestimate what they can do in a year and wid they estimate what they
can do in a decade. So that is the reality. When you step back through
your life' short over the last couple of years, you're thinking you've
achieved so much in such a short period of time. So that's why we broke
it down. We want one incredibly big goal for the year. We don't want to
break it down to three or four stepping, those quarters within each
year, so every three months. We don't want to have a specific alco
deliverable that we going to achieve each month, and then we need dating
tasks, that we're going to complete, so that we have a really great
week. And that's why you can see here, if you imagine that, circular
line going from yearning to course lead to monthly to weekly, we then go
all the way back through up to the start. And that's because over time
you'll find that this compound you get momentum and you'll be able to
sustain that for a lot of longer. But we need to also keep an eye out
for these traps. We don't want to send too many goals at want. We want
to keep that down to three, which we're going to touch on in a minute.
We also need to be able to adjust and be flexible because as the army
say, no plan survives first contact or not by Formula One So for
example, you can have the best strategy in the world, but the minute the
rain hits the track, that strategy's gone out of the window, and we need
to adapt and adjust. And the reason this is really key is because you're
never going to be able to control everything that happens around you and
in the world, the en can control what's in your direct control. So keep
that involved. For example, that keep in the amount of work you're
putting in, the amounts of hours that you spend on the task, the amounts
of networking you do, the amount of the emails that you do, the amount
of branding messages that you do, all these different polse you can
control. You also don't want to actually have your goal, being an outf,
but maybe more of an outcome. We want to make sure that we're not
ignoring capacity as well, as in how much time that you've got to do it,
all setting and forgetting them and then not touching them again for the
next couple of months. And there's so many studies out there, the show
over the years, those that actually go through and set goals.. In this
weird, we're talking in your direct control, so keep that in mind. For
example, that keep in mind is worth you're putting in, the amounts of
the hours that you spend on the task, the amounts of networking you do,
the amounts the emails that you do, the amount of branding messagesings
that you do, all of these different parts, you can control. You also
don't want to actually have your goal, being an outf, but maybe more of
an outcome. We want to be sure that we're not ignoring capacity as well,
as in how much time that you've got to do it, or setting and forgetting
them and not touching them again for the next couple months. And there's
so many studies out there that show over the years, those that actually
go through and set goals achieve more, versus those that don't. So ask
yourself these questions. Do I have the skills and resources to make
this happen? I want you to eliminate the words from your vocabulary. All
you want to stay for example, how do I get them? If not? Always position
yourself as being able to solve problems even your own thinking that
there's a look at and you can't do anything. The next one is who has
achieved something similar and what can I learn from that path? So this
may be looking outside of your social circle, that maybe have a work or
school or a local community. It could be that you're looking at some of
the individuals online and take you with a pinch of sal from what some
of the influeners out there actually say. The next one is what's the
first small step I can take? I can we want to be thinking about almost I
could give a baby? We want those baby steps first, so that we can go and
go and go, and then you can be running a marathon within, you, a couple
of months, for example. We want to be starting with those small steps
first, as much as possible. Next, and we're going to help you with this
one. We're our weekly R Rusher Template, but how are you going to
mention your progress week by week, and what are your key milesestone
markets to achieve in that timerame? And all of these combined together
should really help you identify, change your ways of thinking, from what
if I fail, to actually, how do I suceed? We want to be thinking about
this all front, right at the start to make sure that we can keep taking
action, keep putting one foot in front the other to achieve our goals.
So now I want you to get a go. Come on with a specific, measurable,
achievable, realistic, and time bound goal, and to make it even easier
for you, we've done it already. So if you find the link down below, you
should find this template all around setting your goals. You've broken
it down in here just like we've covered for being a specific goal, a
measurable goal, an achievable goal, a realistic goal, a tie bound goal,
and then the summary. and then you can do the exact same for goal two
and for goal three. And that's why I want you to focus on. I just want
three goals at this stage that you want to achieve within the next year
to start off with, that you want to miss down in here. This is going to
help us be really targeted on the actions that we take over the next
couple of months. We're then going to come down to our goal hierarchy.
We're going to say our 12 month vision in here and as much detail in
there as you can really visualize it. Again, when you're driving, what
you're wearing, any of the non material stuff at the time you can spend
with your family, being able to take time on the weekends to relax,
maybe. Anything can be space that dream holiday, you want to, but the
certain of someone, anything like that, you want to food in here. And
then we're going to tie down to the quarterly miles. Again, that's a
specific outcome that you've achieved. So that milestone could be,000
subscribers. It could be three paid members, something small like that.
Any of these things that want to Andy these down in the milestones, and
then a deadline that you think you can achieve that in as well. If you
come down to here, I then want you to think about this first month. So
this month's objective could be just getting through, all of the
material I've got you, and sending out your first, maybe 400 emails.
Again, we're breaking down into this month specifically for what we want
to achieve. I then want you to think about the next week. This will need
to do with this MasterCars or anything else going into your life as
well. What do you want this week's actions to be? Do you want Monday to
do Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday? That could be that Monday
is that you want to go to the gym and that's just going to be your task.
Tuesday could be you just want to complete all of the modules in one,
Wednesday could be that you want to complete everything inception two,
Thursday could be that you want to complete everything in section three
and so on and so forth. Connection, checkpoint. So again, what we're
looking at here is can you trace a clear line and you clearly identify
how this week's tasks are going to ti into this month's objectives,
which are going to tie into this quarter milestones all the way up to
your 12 month vision. You want to be able to see that idea here of
progression and how they will tie together. If it doesn't connect, then
you' bigger goals going to do it as well. The reason I mentioned this so
important is because there was actually an incident in Croatia a couple
of years ago where they started to build this breach if I just opened
this up and there even me many, many years. I think it's about 10 years
decade or so, they actually realized that the bridges didn't match up
because as they were building over time, there was a few
miscalculations. The Rock almost moved, there was loads of different
parts. So it actually ended up looking like this. So, of course, the
coals didn't align. And this is why it's really important.standing why
what you do week week, to month to month, to quarter to quarter to year
to year is going to compound over time, either negatively or positively.
Again, a really simp example is if you need lots and lots ofunk food,
that's not going to be good for you each week each month, each year and
so on and so forth. So that's how we want to start breaking it down to
get the best output. The next one here is I wanted to do a bit of
reanity testing on your goals. So I want a realistic use case in here.
So, for example, getting that 300 customers, if you could say the best
case would be, you know your wildest dreams is that you get 500
customers and the worst case is that you're going to get 200 customers.
The reason that I want you to think about this is because we've always
tequila scenarios in our heads to make sure that you're planning your
business or expansure or maybe losing your job. We take that into
consideration as well. But why also almost promise that you will see
when you start to write down the worst cases is they're not actually
that big a deal For example, if you pick your first video online, no one
cares. There's so many other things that are going on in other people's
world. Again, there's that old thing where, you, first, they think
you're crazy, then they'll start asking you questions and then they
start asking you how to do it themselves. So there's those different
steps as you go through. When you start removing all of those limiting
beliefs they can really check out our mindset Mastercl so that you can
go through being in real right headspace, you're trying to do what we're
going to do. The validation question it as well. So do have the skills.
If not, how are we going to get them? Do you know someone who's done
something similar? If so, cool, let's reach out to them, let's
understand how, let's make sure there'll be what we'll doing. What you
have working in your favour, if you' worked in insurance for 15 years,
you probably know load of people that you're able to reach out to. If
not, maybe you've got 11 different accountants in your local area that
you know you can be and talk to on a Monday morning and go, what you do,
what problems you have, I'm happy to build something for free just to
show you what I can do. The next one is plan. Again, breaking it down
into those manageable chunks. What are we doing week I week? What's the
plan? then we can also track if you're the progress you need. Make sure
that you're actually checking any of the flags in case there's any
issues and that you've got to the final checkpoint tip, which you will
also be able to do is to have our weekly reflections, and this is going
to help us go through, identify this week's winds, you, do's and dones,
we want the reality check, what works well, what could we improve on,
the progress against our goals. We've got the time and energy order.
This is really a key, because then we can look out to we spend it on
learning and building, to be spending watching TV, wasting time. Again
you'll that you'll probably need to huddle away for a couple of months
to work on this. You to go to the pub every week, the bar, you'll
probably have to dedic quite a bit time to get this up running, but
it'll be worth it in many, many years to come. So you've got week next
week for improve support systems, all in these different parts in here.
And of course, you've got that time here, you can book it with a team as
much as you want as well. Now, I also meant to be with cover, OKR. And
these are used by large companies like Google and LinkedIn, and there
for more advanced companies than starting off with your own business. It
stands for objectives and key results. And what it means is instead of
setting realistic targets, almost doing is setting an ambitious st
inspiring objective, and then defining Europe with three to five key
results. So we're defining where we want to go and the key results for
how we measure, that we've got there. Again, this may sound a little bit
less structure than our smart objectives, and that's because as we scale
businesses, we've got multiple people that are going to be involved with
the process. We've got to align and lots of different teams. It's going
to be a very dynamic environment. We want to set it up as that North
Star that we want to go after, having it redined and controlled, like we
help with the objectives. We're going to cover this a lot later on in a
scaling part, the masterces, but definitely keep the smart objectives
for now because that will really help you in the early days of getting
this up and going and landing that first flight. So that's everything
about setting your goals. I hope you understand it and I look forward to
Welcome to the Claude code went through l of htese PHASE 1: THE AI
OPPORTUNITY

1.1 The AI Revolution: ChatGPT to Transformers

1.2 Billion $ Implementation Gap & Adoption Curve

1.3 Your Value Proposition & Service Models

1.4 Target Markets & Industry Deep Dive

1.5 Pricing Strategy & Demonstrating ROI

1.6 Your Complete Tech Stack & Tools

1.7 Implementation & Essential Skills

1.8 Mindset, Persistence & Winning the Long Game

PHASE 2: STRATEGIC POSITIONING (Your Edge)

2.1 Finding Your Edge

2.2 Defining Your ICP & Customer Problemse

2.4 Drafting your “one-liner pitch”

2.5 Setting Goals & Accountability Framework

claude code said ⏺ Staging plan updated.

Changes made:

1. Header preamble · added a "Late addition" note marking the 3 new PDFs
as additions to the original 243-file inventory. Updated total copy
count from ~210 to ~213.

2. §1 mkdir block · added raw/13_OPERATING_DISCIPLINE/ with an inline
alternative for raw/05_AI_EDGE_COURSE/ if you want ICP Definition routed
separately. Flagged the numbering collision: 13_NETWORK already occupies
the 13_ prefix, and 05_PRODUCTION already occupies

05_ · noted that 15_OPERATING_DISCIPLINE/ is the next clean free slot if
strict chapter-number uniqueness matters.

3. §2.25 new section · explicit cp block for the 3 PDFs into
13_OPERATING_DISCIPLINE/, with the optional split-routing block for ICP
Definition into 05_AI_EDGE_COURSE/. Includes file sizes, why each one
matters for SNIPED (ICP Worksheet feeds sniped-wwp-positioning and

recurring ICP refinement; Goals + Reflections feed the 5-loop drift
detection from BATCH_004 canon item 10), and the explicit framing that
these are operating-discipline scaffolding · not canonical strategic
weight.

4. §5 verification · added verification check #9 (ls -la
"$DST/13_OPERATING_DISCIPLINE/").

5. §6 deferred queue · registered as BATCH_027 ·
EDGE_AND_OPERATING_DISCIPLINE. Flagged that it can be elevated earlier
if a quarterly Constraint Audit or weekly-review redesign needs the
source material.

Confirmed:

- BATCH_005 remains photography canon.

- No chunking, no master file updates, no file moves.

- All 3 PDFs verified present in SOS root at expected paths.
