Lightroom TUTORIAL ARTICLE Intermediate 6 min Make precise adjustments to specific colors in Lightroom Learn how the Color Variance slider gives you control over subtle adjustments
to a particular color in your image. Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 3.5 MB Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms . What
you’ll learn Select a specific color in the image The first step for using Color Variance is to use the eyedropper tool at the top of the Point Color panel to sample a color in
your image. Choose a color that is approximately midway between the darkest and lightest versions of the general color you want to change. Understand how Variance affects a range
of color The Variance slider will affect a range of colors that are similar to the color you sampled with the eyedropper tool. Moving the slider to the left will cause the range of
colors to become more alike, while moving the slider to the right will increase the contrast between the colors and enhance their differences. Use Variance with masks for more
precise control A Variance adjustment that is applied to the entire image may affect other areas that you do not want to change. You can apply the Variance adjustment to specific
areas in a scene by creating a mask, so the change is only applied to the masked region that you select. Fix uneven sky color in landscape photos Variance can work well to remove
color shifts in a blue sky that are sometimes created when a polarizing filter is used. Minimize redness and create natural, even skin tones in a portrait In portrait subjects you
can move the Variance slider to the left to remove the redness from a sunburn or fix blotchy or uneven skin tones. If the skin tone appears too uniform, move the slider back to the
right until you find a balance that results in a more natural look. Instruction and photography by Seán Duggan Adobe Stock Contributors Volha Murashka December 15, 2025 Was this
tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Tip: Compare edit styles with Versions in Lightroom mobile Beginner3 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE How Kelsey McClellan turns everyday
moments into a mood. Intermediate6 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Improve color, lighting, and clarity in underwater photos Intermediate6 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity &
Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Apply perspective correction to fix skewed and tilted angles TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 6 min Apply perspective
correction to fix skewed and tilted angles Use Lightroom's Upright and Guided Upright controls to straighten and adjust the perspective lines in your photos. Transcript What you'll
need Download sample files ZIP, 2.08 MB Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms . What you'll learn Enable lens corrections To ensure the best results
from the geometry corrections, open the Optics panel and turn on Remove Chromatic Aberration and Enable Lens Corrections. Start with the Upright presets Click the Crop tool and in
the Geometry section of the Crop panel, open the Upright menu. Start with the Auto preset and then try the other presets, Level, Vertical, or Full, to see which one produces the
best correction for your photo. Apply precise corrections with Guided Upright Use the Guided Upright feature to apply guides that identify lines in the scene that should be
vertical and horizontal. You need to apply at least two guides before a correction is applied. Click on a guide to adjust it, or press Delete to remove it. Instruction and
photography by Seán Duggan September 10, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Adjust perspective and image geometry Beginner2 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Crop
and adjust perspective Beginner10 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Crop and straighten your photos Beginner2 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Streamline your Lightroom workflow with Assisted Culling TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 5 min Streamline your Lightroom workflow with Assisted
Culling Take advantage of AI to quickly assess photos for subject focus, eye focus, open eyes, exposure issues, and more. Transcript What you’ll learn Sort images based on subject
focus, eye focus, or eyes open You can assess your photos for subject focus, eye focus, eyes open, and even exposure issues and you can adjust a scoring slider to have Lightroom be
more selective, or less selective in how it evaluates the images. You can choose to view just the selects, or the rejects, and a rejected photo can always be promoted to a select.
Automatically reject misfires or photos of receipts In the Reject section you can tell Lightroom to reject photos of documents or receipts, obvious accidental images, or photos
that are significantly over- or underexposed. Organize the Assisted Culling results You can choose different ways to organize both the selects and the rejects, such as applying
flags, ratings, or color labels, adding photos to an album, or, in the case of rejects, removing them from an album or deleting them. Assisted Culling in Lightroom and Lightroom
Classic Assisted Culling is available in both Lightroom and Lightroom Classic. In Lightroom Classic, it is found in the Library module, as well as in the Import window, so you can
take advantage of it as you’re importing new photos. Instruction and photography by Glyn Dewis October 28, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove
objects using Photoshop with Lightroom Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Adjust the brightness of your photos Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Improve your photos with basic edits in
Lightroom on mobile Beginner5 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Edit photos faster with
AI-powered dust removal TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 5 min Edit photos faster with AI-powered dust removal Save time by automatically removing sensor dust spots from your photos with
Distraction Removal in Lightroom. Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 2.27 MB Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms . What you’ll
learn Remove dust spots automatically In the Remove panel, enable the checkbox for Visualize Spots to see a view of the image that makes the dust spots easier to see and adjust the
Threshold slider to customize this display. Open Distraction Removal, choose Dust, then click the Apply checkbox to begin the AI-powered dust removal. Customize the dust removal
results Adjust the size of the brush and click on any spots that the dust removal may have missed. If you see any dust removal spots you want to remove, select them and either
click the trashcan icon in the Dust removal panel, or simply tap the Delete key. You can also refresh the results for a selected spot by clicking the refresh icon. Copy dust
removal settings In the photo grid view (G), select a photo to which you’ve applied dust removal and click the gear icon next to the Copy Edit Settings button. Open the Select menu
at the top of the Copy Settings window and choose None. Then open the Remove section and select Dust. When the settings are copied, this will ensure that only the dust removal
settings are copied. Then click Copy. Apply dust removal to multiple photos In the photo grid view (G), select the first image to which you want to apply the dust removal settings,
then Shift-click on the last photo to select all the photos between the two clicks. Now click the Paste Edit Settings button below the thumbnail grid to apply dust removal to the
selected photos. The AI in Lightroom will intelligently remove the dust spots that are specific to each image. When to apply dust removal in your editing workflow The best time to
apply Distraction Removal in your editing workflow is before you do any masking for specific areas in the image. When dust removal is applied after the creation of masks, Lightroom
may have to update any AI-generated masks that you have applied. Instruction by Glyn Dewis Photography by Seán Duggan October 28, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this
TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove distracting objects from a photo Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove spots and small distractions Beginner2 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove lens dust
Beginner10 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Edit photos faster with AI-powered dust removal
TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 5 min Edit photos faster with AI-powered dust removal Save time by automatically removing sensor dust spots from your photos with Distraction Removal in
Lightroom. Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 2.27 MB Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms . What you’ll learn Remove dust
spots automatically In the Remove panel, enable the checkbox for Visualize Spots to see a view of the image that makes the dust spots easier to see and adjust the Threshold slider
to customize this display. Open Distraction Removal, choose Dust, then click the Apply checkbox to begin the AI-powered dust removal. Customize the dust removal results Adjust the
size of the brush and click on any spots that the dust removal may have missed. If you see any dust removal spots you want to remove, select them and either click the trashcan icon
in the Dust removal panel, or simply tap the Delete key. You can also refresh the results for a selected spot by clicking the refresh icon. Copy dust removal settings In the photo
grid view (G), select a photo to which you’ve applied dust removal and click the gear icon next to the Copy Edit Settings button. Open the Select menu at the top of the Copy
Settings window and choose None. Then open the Remove section and select Dust. When the settings are copied, this will ensure that only the dust removal settings are copied. Then
click Copy. Apply dust removal to multiple photos In the photo grid view (G), select the first image to which you want to apply the dust removal settings, then Shift-click on the
last photo to select all the photos between the two clicks. Now click the Paste Edit Settings button below the thumbnail grid to apply dust removal to the selected photos. The AI
in Lightroom will intelligently remove the dust spots that are specific to each image. When to apply dust removal in your editing workflow The best time to apply Distraction
Removal in your editing workflow is before you do any masking for specific areas in the image. When dust removal is applied after the creation of masks, Lightroom may have to
update any AI-generated masks that you have applied. Instruction by Glyn Dewis Photography by Seán Duggan October 28, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL
ARTICLE Remove distracting objects from a photo Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove spots and small distractions Beginner2 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove lens dust Beginner10 min
Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Edit photos faster with AI-powered dust removal TUTORIAL ARTICLE
Beginner 5 min Edit photos faster with AI-powered dust removal Save time by automatically removing sensor dust spots from your photos with Distraction Removal in Lightroom.
Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 2.27 MB Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms . What you’ll learn Remove dust spots
automatically In the Remove panel, enable the checkbox for Visualize Spots to see a view of the image that makes the dust spots easier to see and adjust the Threshold slider to
customize this display. Open Distraction Removal, choose Dust, then click the Apply checkbox to begin the AI-powered dust removal. Customize the dust removal results Adjust the
size of the brush and click on any spots that the dust removal may have missed. If you see any dust removal spots you want to remove, select them and either click the trashcan icon
in the Dust removal panel, or simply tap the Delete key. You can also refresh the results for a selected spot by clicking the refresh icon. Copy dust removal settings In the photo
grid view (G), select a photo to which you’ve applied dust removal and click the gear icon next to the Copy Edit Settings button. Open the Select menu at the top of the Copy
Settings window and choose None. Then open the Remove section and select Dust. When the settings are copied, this will ensure that only the dust removal settings are copied. Then
click Copy. Apply dust removal to multiple photos In the photo grid view (G), select the first image to which you want to apply the dust removal settings, then Shift-click on the
last photo to select all the photos between the two clicks. Now click the Paste Edit Settings button below the thumbnail grid to apply dust removal to the selected photos. The AI
in Lightroom will intelligently remove the dust spots that are specific to each image. When to apply dust removal in your editing workflow The best time to apply Distraction
Removal in your editing workflow is before you do any masking for specific areas in the image. When dust removal is applied after the creation of masks, Lightroom may have to
update any AI-generated masks that you have applied. Instruction by Glyn Dewis Photography by Seán Duggan October 28, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL
ARTICLE Remove distracting objects from a photo Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove spots and small distractions Beginner2 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove lens dust Beginner10 min
Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Edit photos faster with AI-powered dust removal TUTORIAL ARTICLE
Beginner 5 min Edit photos faster with AI-powered dust removal Save time by automatically removing sensor dust spots from your photos with Distraction Removal in Lightroom.
Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 2.27 MB Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms . What you’ll learn Remove dust spots
automatically In the Remove panel, enable the checkbox for Visualize Spots to see a view of the image that makes the dust spots easier to see and adjust the Threshold slider to
customize this display. Open Distraction Removal, choose Dust, then click the Apply checkbox to begin the AI-powered dust removal. Customize the dust removal results Adjust the
size of the brush and click on any spots that the dust removal may have missed. If you see any dust removal spots you want to remove, select them and either click the trashcan icon
in the Dust removal panel, or simply tap the Delete key. You can also refresh the results for a selected spot by clicking the refresh icon. Copy dust removal settings In the photo
grid view (G), select a photo to which you’ve applied dust removal and click the gear icon next to the Copy Edit Settings button. Open the Select menu at the top of the Copy
Settings window and choose None. Then open the Remove section and select Dust. When the settings are copied, this will ensure that only the dust removal settings are copied. Then
click Copy. Apply dust removal to multiple photos In the photo grid view (G), select the first image to which you want to apply the dust removal settings, then Shift-click on the
last photo to select all the photos between the two clicks. Now click the Paste Edit Settings button below the thumbnail grid to apply dust removal to the selected photos. The AI
in Lightroom will intelligently remove the dust spots that are specific to each image. When to apply dust removal in your editing workflow The best time to apply Distraction
Removal in your editing workflow is before you do any masking for specific areas in the image. When dust removal is applied after the creation of masks, Lightroom may have to
update any AI-generated masks that you have applied. Instruction by Glyn Dewis Photography by Seán Duggan October 28, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL
ARTICLE Remove distracting objects from a photo Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove spots and small distractions Beginner2 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove lens dust Beginner10 min
Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Remove distracting people and window reflections TUTORIAL ARTICLE
Beginner 5 min Remove distracting people and window reflections Distraction removal in Lightroom lets you remove background people and window reflections from your photos.
Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 2.17 MB Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms . What you'll learn Take advantage of AI to
detect and remove people in the background Click the Remove tool on the right, and under Distraction Removal, click People. Lightroom will place a pin and a colored overlay over
the background people it has detected. To remove a pin from a person, click to select it and press the Delete key. Click Remove to remove the selected people from the scene. Remove
window reflections Click the Remove tool on the right, and under Distraction Removal, click Reflections. Choose the quality level for the reflection removal: Preview, Standard, or
Best, and click Apply. Preview is the fastest and is good to quickly see how much of the reflection is removed. Best will take longer to process but will create the best result.
Instruction and photography by Glyn Dewis Additional photography by Seán Duggan August 19, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove objects and
distractions with Generative Remove Beginner4 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove objects using Photoshop with Lightroom Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove distracting objects from a
photo Beginner5 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Remove distracting people and window
reflections TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 5 min Remove distracting people and window reflections Distraction removal in Lightroom lets you remove background people and window
reflections from your photos. Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 2.17 MB Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms . What you'll
learn Take advantage of AI to detect and remove people in the background Click the Remove tool on the right, and under Distraction Removal, click People. Lightroom will place a pin
and a colored overlay over the background people it has detected. To remove a pin from a person, click to select it and press the Delete key. Click Remove to remove the selected
people from the scene. Remove window reflections Click the Remove tool on the right, and under Distraction Removal, click Reflections. Choose the quality level for the reflection
removal: Preview, Standard, or Best, and click Apply. Preview is the fastest and is good to quickly see how much of the reflection is removed. Best will take longer to process but
will create the best result. Instruction and photography by Glyn Dewis Additional photography by Seán Duggan August 19, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL
ARTICLE Remove objects and distractions with Generative Remove Beginner4 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove objects using Photoshop with Lightroom Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove
distracting objects from a photo Beginner5 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Use Quick Actions
to streamline editing in Lightroom for web TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 5 min Use Quick Actions to streamline editing in Lightroom for web Quick Actions suggest automatic edits for
enhancing a photo that are specific to the image content in the scene. Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 464 KB Note: Stock assets provided are for practice
purposes only. See terms . What you'll learn Speed up your edits with Quick Actions Click the magic wand icon in the upper right and Quick Actions will analyze your photo and
suggest a variety of one-click edits that are based on the image content in the scene. Depending on the type of photo, Quick Actions can include auto light & color, presets for
different styles, retouching to quickly remove people in the background of a scene, and adjustments for enhancing the subject and the background, as well as specific areas in a
scene, such as different landscape elements and options for enhancing a portrait. Instruction and photography by Glyn Dewis August 14, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful? More like
this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Use Quick Actions to edit photos faster in Lightroom mobile Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Streamline your editing with presets in Lightroom on mobile
Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Improve photos with basic edits in Lightroom on the web Beginner5 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Use Quick Actions to streamline editing in Lightroom for web TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 5 min Use Quick Actions to streamline editing in
Lightroom for web Quick Actions suggest automatic edits for enhancing a photo that are specific to the image content in the scene. Transcript What you'll need Download sample files
ZIP, 464 KB Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms . What you'll learn Speed up your edits with Quick Actions Click the magic wand icon in the upper
right and Quick Actions will analyze your photo and suggest a variety of one-click edits that are based on the image content in the scene. Depending on the type of photo, Quick
Actions can include auto light & color, presets for different styles, retouching to quickly remove people in the background of a scene, and adjustments for enhancing the subject
and the background, as well as specific areas in a scene, such as different landscape elements and options for enhancing a portrait. Instruction and photography by Glyn Dewis
August 14, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Use Quick Actions to edit photos faster in Lightroom mobile Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Streamline
your editing with presets in Lightroom on mobile Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Improve photos with basic edits in Lightroom on the web Beginner5 min Browse all tutorials Adobe,
Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Use Quick Actions to streamline editing in Lightroom for web TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 5 min
Use Quick Actions to streamline editing in Lightroom for web Quick Actions suggest automatic edits for enhancing a photo that are specific to the image content in the scene.
Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 464 KB Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms . What you'll learn Speed up your edits with
Quick Actions Click the magic wand icon in the upper right and Quick Actions will analyze your photo and suggest a variety of one-click edits that are based on the image content in
the scene. Depending on the type of photo, Quick Actions can include auto light & color, presets for different styles, retouching to quickly remove people in the background of a
scene, and adjustments for enhancing the subject and the background, as well as specific areas in a scene, such as different landscape elements and options for enhancing a
portrait. Instruction and photography by Glyn Dewis August 14, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Use Quick Actions to edit photos faster in Lightroom
mobile Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Streamline your editing with presets in Lightroom on mobile Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Improve photos with basic edits in Lightroom on the
web Beginner5 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Use Quick Actions to streamline editing in
Lightroom for web TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 5 min Use Quick Actions to streamline editing in Lightroom for web Quick Actions suggest automatic edits for enhancing a photo that are
specific to the image content in the scene. Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 464 KB Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms .
What you'll learn Speed up your edits with Quick Actions Click the magic wand icon in the upper right and Quick Actions will analyze your photo and suggest a variety of one-click
edits that are based on the image content in the scene. Depending on the type of photo, Quick Actions can include auto light & color, presets for different styles, retouching to
quickly remove people in the background of a scene, and adjustments for enhancing the subject and the background, as well as specific areas in a scene, such as different landscape
elements and options for enhancing a portrait. Instruction and photography by Glyn Dewis August 14, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Use Quick
Actions to edit photos faster in Lightroom mobile Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Streamline your editing with presets in Lightroom on mobile Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Improve
photos with basic edits in Lightroom on the web Beginner5 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Use
Quick Actions to streamline editing in Lightroom for web TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 5 min Use Quick Actions to streamline editing in Lightroom for web Quick Actions suggest
automatic edits for enhancing a photo that are specific to the image content in the scene. Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 464 KB Note: Stock assets provided
are for practice purposes only. See terms . What you'll learn Speed up your edits with Quick Actions Click the magic wand icon in the upper right and Quick Actions will analyze
your photo and suggest a variety of one-click edits that are based on the image content in the scene. Depending on the type of photo, Quick Actions can include auto light & color,
presets for different styles, retouching to quickly remove people in the background of a scene, and adjustments for enhancing the subject and the background, as well as specific
areas in a scene, such as different landscape elements and options for enhancing a portrait. Instruction and photography by Glyn Dewis August 14, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful?
More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Use Quick Actions to edit photos faster in Lightroom mobile Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Streamline your editing with presets in Lightroom on
mobile Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Improve photos with basic edits in Lightroom on the web Beginner5 min Browse all tutorials