Creativity & Design Creative Cloud for business Products Resources Admin Console Compare Plans Contact Sales Free trial Buy now 800-915-9428 Home /Adobe Creative Cloud /Creative
Cloud for teams /Articles and videos Business skills for creative leaders: Drive business impact with the Creative Strategy Framework. Douglas Davis was a student in a competitive
strategy class in NYU's integrated marketing program when the professor held out a whiteboard marker and dared anyone to step up to the board. As an art director coming from a
creative background, Davis often felt like a fish out of water in the competitive environment of business school - but in this moment, he suddenly found confidence and clarity. He
grasped the marker and drew four columns, articulating for the first time as he drew what he would later call the Creative Strategy Framework - a tool to help creative leaders
think and speak like business leaders so they can communicate their ideas and drive business impact. A decade later, Davis has written a book based on that framework - Creative
Strategy and the Business of Design and he has taught it to thousands of people around the world, from students to creative directors. "I love being able to walk creatives through
it because there's so much fear," says Davis, a professor at New York City College of Technology and chief strategist and principal designer at the Davis Group, LLC. "You're an
artist, and you walk into a business meeting with ideas you put your heart and soul into, but they're going to get killed if you don't walk in with the right strategy." The
Creative Strategy Framework gets business leaders and creative leaders on the same page, Davis says, enabling an alignment that results in creative solutions to business problems.
The framework's four columns - target, facts, features and benefits, and message or objective - represent four types of information creative professionals should gather as they
approach a project. This article will walk through exactly how it works, including three steps to using the framework to help creative professionals produce work with greater
business value. Apply the four-part framework. Let's say you work for a low-cost airline that's trying to get customers back in the air as the pandemic eases and travel becomes
more possible. Your task is to develop a creative campaign that encourages people to overcome their fears and buy a plane ticket. Using the Creative Strategy Framework, you would
begin by collecting information in each of the four areas. 1. Identify the target audience. The airline likely serves several types of customers - for example, business travelers,
tourists who are tired of sitting at home, or people with children looking to reconnect with family. List each audience along with their problems or pain points in the first column
of the framework. "My first step would be to try to understand the people," Davis says. "We've been trained to see the problem from the viewpoint of the brand, but the real
question is, what is the target's problem and how can I understand it so I can align it with a solution?" Davis recommends writing down details about who you're talking to, what
they need, what their fears or barriers are, and how those could be neutralized. In the case of the airline, if you were listing pain points for families, you might include needs
such as wanting to see grandparents they haven't seen in a long time, fears such as becoming infected, and barriers such as the cost of traveling with kids. 2. Collect as many
facts as you can. The second column of the framework is for facts about the brand, product, or service - including as much internal and external data as you can find. In the
airline category, that means things like internal information about how much sales declined in the last year - a business problem that company leaders are trying to solve. It also
means secondary research on industry trends, competitors, and the company's position relative to them, as well as any current travel advisories. Customer reviews can shed light on
pain points and public perceptions, and the 10-K statement in SEC filings outlines risks to the company and provides important business context. "I'm looking at everything," Davis
says. "You have to dig deep and go beyond what the brand says about itself, or you're just going to come up with a message that works internally but not externally." The point of
this part of the Creative Strategy Framework, Davis says, is to collect nuggets of information that you can then use to draw connections and spark big ideas. "If you find insights
through research that others aren't looking for, you'll come up with something others can't because it's not on their radar." 3. Connect features and benefits. Use column 3 to list
features (particular aspects of your product or service) and benefits (the positive impacts of those features on the target). For example, a low-cost airline might offer various
fare classes (a feature) for customers who want to save money (a benefit) by forgoing things like extra legroom or free Wi-Fi. Or for a little extra money, the airline might
introduce earlier boarding and contactless check-in (feature) for those who want to feel safer (benefit). You might notice that the benefits are closely related to the pain points
listed in column 1, and that's intentional. "This is why we had to start with the target," says Davis. "We have to understand what moves them. What exactly are they trying to get
from travel? Is it rest and relaxation? Mental health? Family ties? All of that is going to help me choose - do I lead with a feature statement or do I talk to them about the
benefits?... I think the traveler who's going for rest and relaxation is looking for the benefits. The price-sensitive traveler is looking for features." 4. Formulate your message
or objective. This column brings together all the information you've collected. Looking at the business problem, the competition, and the framework so far, begin to articulate the
message you want the customer to come away with after seeing your creative work. Davis says not to worry about being clever at this stage - just say it straight. In the airline
example, if your target is families, your objective might be for them to understand the following message (note the pain points, features, and benefits included): "As a company of
mothers, fathers, sisters, and brothers, we share your values. We believe people should be connected, and we provide affordable solutions that can get your family safely from point
A to B and back again." Twisting the Rubik's Cube. Successfully using the framework involves three steps, Davis says. The first is quantity - gathering as much information as
possible. The second is quality - whittling down to the most relevant and useful information. The third is strategic insights - using the framework to connect the dots and yield
thought starters as you brainstorm your creative campaign. "If you don't uncover new insights, you're coming up with executions that either have been done before, probably won't
work, or are definitely not high-level concepts," Davis says. "The way to uncover insights is to exhaust the columns and look for the completely unexpected connections that emerge
across categories because you're looking at all the information in a new way." He adds, "I love this part because you can twist that Rubik's Cube in a way that nobody else is
twisting it." The final step is presenting your ideas to business leaders - and the Creative Strategy Framework helps you approach that conversation, too. The template for talking
about creative work in the context of business objectives is based on the four columns: "Based on [the target's] need or behavior, let's start a conversation centered around this
[fact] or truth using this [feature or benefit] in any headline or copy to deliver this [message] or accomplish this [objective]." Weaving strategy into your execution transforms
you into a partner in driving business impact, Davis says. "As creatives, we aren't just execution-focused. We're also focused on solving the business problem. This is about
creative business solutions - it's bigger than just making things pretty." For more insights from Davis on creative strategy, check out our video series, The 5-Minute Creative
Mentor. Watch Episode 1: The Creative Strategy Framework below, then explore Episode 2 on writing creative briefs and Episode 3 on perfecting creative pitches. Adobe can help.
Adobe Creative Cloud for teams gives you the world's best creative apps and services in a single, secure, integrated platform. With 20+ desktop and mobile apps, Creative Cloud
Libraries for keeping assets in sync across apps and devices, and 1TB of storage per user, this complete creative software solution is designed to support your business at every
stage of growth. Plus, you can count on simplified license management and total control over your software to help your team stay focused on creating great work. Learn more For
individuals & small business Creative AI Photography Design and illustration Video and animation PDF 3D Elements Family Stock images and video View all products For medium & large
business Personalization at scale Content supply chain Unified customer experience Creativity and production B2B GTM orchestration View all products For organizations Education
Nonprofits Government Support Help Center Download and install Adobe Community Adobe Learn Medium and large business support Contact Chat with sales Request information Adobe Log
into your account About Careers Events Newsroom Corporate responsibility Investor Relations Supply chain Trust Center Integrity Adobe for All Adobe Blog Featured products Acrobat
Reader Firefly Adobe Express Photoshop Change region Copyright ¬© 2026 Adobe. All rights reserved./ Privacy/ Terms of Use/ Cookie preferences/ Do not sell or share my personal
information/ AdChoices Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Edit and organize your images anywhere TUTORIAL ARTICLE
Beginner 5 min Edit and organize your images anywhere See how you can add your photos to Lightroom Classic and get set up to enjoy your photography anywhere, on all your devices.
Adobe Photoshop Lightroom is now Adobe Lightroom Classic, with the same functionality and features. If you're looking for the all-new photography service, check out Lightroom .
Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 961 KB 1 Import photos from your computer or camera In Lightroom Classic, view and organize your photos in the Library
module. Click Import in the lower-left corner. If you don't see the Import button, make sure you are in the Library module. The Import window will open. Note: If you want to
re-create Randi Lynn Beach's photo collection, download the project files at the top of this tutorial and unzip the file on your computer. 2 Choose import settings Locate photos to
import in the Source panel on the left of the Import window. At the center-top choose Add to import photos from a computer or drive, or Copy to import photos from a camera memory
card. Choose import options on the right. When you import from a camera memory card you'll see more options, including Destination settings for choosing the location to which
Lightroom Classic copies photos during import. Click Import at the bottom-right to import the checked photos and automatically return to the Library module. Note: For more detail
on the import experience, see Easily import photos . 3 Create a collection to organize and sync your photos A collection is a simple way to organize your photos—like a photo album.
To access your photos on all your devices, add them to a collection. In the left panel of the Library module click the New Collection (+) icon and choose Create Collection. In the
Create Collection window make sure: "Include selected photos" is not checked (you'll add them next) "Sync with Lightroom on mobile" is checked (so your photos will be available on
all your devices) Click Create in the Create Collection window. 4 Add pictures from your phone You can add photos to your new collection directly from your phone. Open Lightroom
Classic on your mobile device and sign in with your Adobe ID. Then, scroll to the collection you just created on your desktop and tap to open it. Tap the upload button in the
header bar, select Add Photos... and select the photos. Finally, tap the checkmark to add the selected photos to your collection. The photos automatically sync to the collection on
your desktop. 5 Edit your photos on the desktop Once you have your collection, you can select a photo in the collection on your desktop and switch to the Develop module to make
some edits. Use the panels on the right — such as Basic, Tone Curve, Detail, Lens Corrections, and Effects — to adjust your photos. Here, you can use a combination of sliders and
other settings to modify the photo's overall temperature, cropping, tone, and other properties to give your photos the look you want. 6 See and edit your photos anywhere With your
collection synced, you can organize, edit, and share your photos from all of your devices. Select an image on your mobile device and tap the Adjust icon to use the editing
controls. Tap one of the controls, like Exposure, and slide your finger across the scale to lighten or darken the image. Some controls, like White Balance, include a list of
options. When you are done, tap the arrow in the top-left of the screen to return to the collection and automatically sync your edits across your devices. You can experiment with
the editing controls or get back to your original photo at any time with one click. Contributor Randi Lynn Beach November 18, 2015 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this
TUTORIAL ARTICLE Import your photos Beginner4 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Access your mobile photos in Adobe Photoshop Lightroom Classic Beginner4 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Organize photos in
Lightroom Classic Beginner8 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Change the look of a photo with
presets TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 2 min Change the look of a photo with presets Adobe Lightroom Classic makes it easy to experiment with the look of an image. Fix a photo or change
your mind; apply an editing preset with one click; then reset to your original at any time. Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 1.9 MB) Contributors Nicholas
Hendrickx Laura Shoe July 11, 2018 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Edit photos in Lightroom Classic Beginner12 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Move photos between
Lightroom Classic and Photoshop Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Discover the possibilities for enhancing your photos Beginner4 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity &
Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Crop and straighten your photos TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 2 min Crop and straighten your photos Straighten
tilted photos and crop them to specific sizes for picture-perfect results in Adobe Photoshop Lightroom Classic. What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 559 KB 1 Choose a photo
to crop and straighten Select a photo in the Library module that you want to crop or straighten. Click Develop in the Module Picker at the top of the screen, or press the D key, to
open the selected photo in the Develop module. Note: If you’re using the sample file provided with this tutorial, first import the sample file into your Lightroom Classic catalog.
2 Open the Crop & Straighten panel Select the Crop tool in the tool strip on the right side of the Develop module, or press the R key. This opens the Crop & Straighten panel
showing controls for the tool. 3 Straighten the horizon with the Angle tool The example photo is tilted a bit and the horizon is not level. To straighten a photo with an obvious
horizon line, select the Angle tool in the Crop & Straighten panel and drag along part of the tilted horizon in the photo. Doing this tells Lightroom Classic that this line should
be level. When you release the mouse, the photo automatically rotates to make the horizon level. 4 Rotate the image to straighten a photo Another way to straighten a photo is to
rotate it manually. Hover your cursor just outside the crop boundary until the cursor changes to a curved double-ended arrow. Then drag to rotate the photo within the frame. You
can use the grid overlay as a reference while rotating. 5 Crop your photo with locked and unlocked aspect ratios Drag any corner or edge of the crop boundary to resize the crop
area. Next, drag the photo within the crop area to select which part of the photo to keep. Note: Take a look at the Lock icon in the Crop & Straighten panel before resizing the
crop area. If the lock is closed, when you drag the crop boundary the width and height change together and keep the same proportion they had. If you want to crop to a different
proportion, open the Lock icon by clicking it. Now you can drag any edge of the crop boundary independently. 6 Crop your photo with an aspect ratio preset If you want to crop your
photo to a preset proportion commonly used for print, web, or video, click the word Original in the Crop & Straighten panel to open the Aspect menu. Here you can select a
standard-size aspect ratio for the crop, such as 1x1 or 5x7. You can also constrain the crop to the aspect ratio of the original photo or enter a custom ratio that will be saved as
an option in this menu. Tip: Press X to switch the orientation of the crop area to horizontal or vertical. For the sample photo, select the 5x7 aspect ratio from the dropdown menu,
drag the crop boundary inward to make it smaller, and drag the image so the surfer is in the lower left of the crop area. 7 Apply the crop To apply your crop to the photo, click
the Done button at the bottom of the workspace or click Close at the bottom of the Crop & Straighten panel. Cropping in Lightroom Classic, like all adjustments, does not
permanently change the photo. You can change the crop at any time by selecting the Crop tool in the tool strip again. November 13, 2019 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this
TUTORIAL ARTICLE Sharpen details in a photo Beginner4 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Alter a photo's perspective Beginner2 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Discover the possibilities for enhancing your
photos Beginner4 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Enhance your photo with a vignette TUTORIAL
ARTICLE Beginner 10 min Enhance your photo with a vignette Make the subject of your photo the focal point by creating a vignette in Adobe Photoshop Lightroom Classic. What you'll
need Download sample files ZIP, 980 KB Choose File > Import Photos and Video and then add the sample photo, or use your own. We’ll show how the Radial Filter in the Develop module
lets you create a vignette even if the subject is not in the very center of the photo. Click the Radial Filter and drag to create an oval around the subject. Drag the filter to the
appropriate area. Everything inside the oval will be affected by the adjustments you make with the sliders. Experiment with the Exposure, Clarity, and Saturation sliders to create
the right vignette effect for the subject of your photo. See how you can draw the viewer’s eye to the subject of your photo with the Radial Filter. Now you can create a vignette
that makes the subject of your photo the focus of attention. Adobe Stock Contributor alinakho September 5, 2018 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Sharpen
details in a photo Beginner4 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Discover the possibilities for enhancing your photos Beginner4 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Fix an overexposed photo Beginner10 min Browse
all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Export and print photos from Lightroom Classic TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner
8 min Export and print photos from Lightroom Classic Simplify exporting and printing from Adobe Lightroom Classic. Transcript What you learned: Export or print using presets Edits
you make in Lightroom Classic don’t change the original file. So if you want to share an edited photo, you have to export a copy of it. Choose File > Export. In the Export window
choose file format, image size, sharpening, and other settings for the copy you’re exporting. Click Add at the bottom left if you want to create an export preset for future use.
Click Export to export selected images with these settings now. To export other photos with these settings in the future, select one or more photos, choose File > Export with
Preset, and choose this preset. To print photos, switch to the Print module. Choose a print template in the Template Browser at the left. You can modify print settings, such as
margins, in the panels at the right. To create a print preset with your modified settings, click the plus icon at the right of the Template Browser. To apply that print template to
another photo you open in the Print module, choose that template in the Template Browser. Presenter Ben Willmore October 18, 2017 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL
ARTICLE Import your photos Beginner4 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Edit and organize your images anywhere Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Lightroom Classic interface and workflow Beginner2
min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn See the benefits of shooting in raw format TUTORIAL ARTICLE
Beginner 3 min See the benefits of shooting in raw format Learn the benefits of shooting photos using Adobe DNG and other raw formats for editing in Lightroom Classic. Adobe
Photoshop Lightroom is now Adobe Lightroom Classic, with the same functionality and features. If you're looking for the all-new photography service, check out Lightroom .
Transcript Contributor: Dave Cross Contributor: John Lorenz May 23, 2016 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE See what you can do with Adobe Photoshop
Lightroom Classic Beginner3 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Advanced video slideshows Intermediate5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Move photos between Lightroom Classic and Photoshop Beginner5 min
Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Quick tips to make you more efficient in Lightroom Classic
TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 9 min Quick tips to make you more efficient in Lightroom Classic Check out these tips to help you speed up your workflow in Adobe Lightroom Classic.
Transcript What you learned: Quick tips to maximize efficiency Keyboard shortcuts: Press the G key to view the Library module grid of photos and to return to the Library module
from other modules. Press the spacebar to view a single image. Press the + or – keys to adjust thumbnail sizes in the Library module. Press F to fill the screen with just an image.
Press D to enter the Develop module. Hide modules you don’t use: Right-click (Windows) or Control+click (macOS) near a module name at the top of the screen and in the drop-down
menu deselect a module you want to hide. View only one panel at a time: Right-click (Windows) or Control+click (macOS) the title bar of a panel and choose Solo Mode. This affects
all the panels in the panel group, keeping just one panel open at a time. Auto-sync edits across multiple pictures: Select several images and switch to the Develop module, where
one of the selected images appears for editing. At the bottom of the right panel group, click the switch to the left of the Sync button to toggle the button to Auto Sync. All edits
you make to one photo will be applied automatically to all the selected photos. Click the button again to toggle it back to Sync. Create multiple virtual versions of one image:
Select a photo and choose Photo > Create Virtual Copy. Repeat to make additional virtual copies that you can use to experiment with different edits. This makes virtual copies only
within Lightroom Classic; it does not create copies of the files on your drive. Copy Develop settings between images: Right-click (Windows) or Control+click (macOS) a photo that
has been edited in the Develop module and choose Develop Settings > Copy Settings. Select the attributes to apply to other photos and click Copy. Select one or more images to
receive the copied settings, Right-click (Windows) or Control+click (macOS) and choose Develop Settings > Paste Settings to apply adjustments copied from the first photo. Presenter
Ben Willmore October 18, 2017 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Lightroom Classic interface and workflow Beginner2 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE See what you can do
with Adobe Photoshop Lightroom Classic Beginner3 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Edit photos in Lightroom Classic Beginner12 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF &
E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Discover the possibilities for enhancing your photos TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 4 min Discover the possibilities for
enhancing your photos Discover some of the amazing ways that you can edit and enhance your photos using Adobe Lightroom Classic. Powerful tools for improving your photos A good
place to start in Lightroom Classic’s Develop module is with the Auto button, which analyzes your photo and applies intelligent corrections to fix common exposure and color issues.
Apply Custom Exposure Adjustments The Tone sliders in the Develop module’s Basic tab provide the basic controls for improving your photos. Is the image underexposed (too dark), or
overexposed (too light)? Experiment with the Exposure slider to adjust the overall brightness of the image. If a photo is too dark, drag the Exposure slider to the right to lighten
it If a photo is too light, drag the Exposure slider to the left to darken it Use the sliders for Highlights and Shadows to fine tune the adjustment. Add life to a dull photo
Sometimes a photo looks flat or dull straight out of the camera. Try these techniques to add contrast to a dull photo in Lightroom Classic: Drag the Contrast slider slightly to the
right to increase overall contrast Drag the Clarity slider to the right to give more punch to the midtones If the darkest tones still seem a bit dull, you can add even more
contrast by dragging the Blacks slider to the left to make the darkest tones deeper and richer Make colors pop If the colors in a photo are too dull or bland, you can increase
color intensity using the Vibrance or Saturation slider. Drag the Saturation slider to the right to intensify the color saturation of all the colors in a photo. If the effect is
too strong, try the Vibrance slider instead. Vibrance targets colors with low saturation values more than colors that are already highly saturated. Adjust color balance Lighting
conditions in a scene can sometimes fool your camera’s automatic white balance function, resulting an unwanted color cast in a photo. Use the Lightroom Classic White Balance
controls to make the colors in your photo more realistic. Choose from White Balance presets or drag the Temperature and Tint sliders to achieve a more natural balance of colors.
Apply adjustments to a group of photos Save time by applying the same adjustments to other photos shot in the same conditions. First, use Lightroom Classic on your computer to
adjust one photo. Then select additional photos in the filmstrip and click the Sync button. Select the settings you want to synchronize, and click Synchronize to apply the same
settings to multiple photos at once. You can also use the Previous button to apply selected settings from the last opened photo to the current photo. When you include Lightroom
Classic in your photography workflow, you can rely on basic adjustments like these to improve and enhance photos that may not look perfect straight out of the camera. Merge photos
into a panorama If a scene is too wide to fit in a single shot with the gear you have with you, take multiple, overlapping photos to capture the entire view and then use the
Panorama feature in Lightroom Classic to stitch them together into a stunning panorama. Select your shots in the Library module. Then go to Photo > Photo Merge > Panorama. In the
Panorama Merge Preview window, select the projection method Lightroom Classic uses to merge the photos. Enable Auto-crop to crop away any white borders around the panorama, or drag
the Boundary Warp slider to preserve the entire image. When you’re satisfied with the results, click Merge. Adobe Stock contributors Dawn2dawn lorcel Maestrovideo Monkey Business
Presenter and Photographer Seán Duggan May 5, 2021 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Edit photos in Lightroom Classic Beginner12 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE
Stylize a photo Beginner10 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Sharpen details in a photo Beginner4 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing &
Commerce Learn & Support Learn Move photos between Lightroom Classic and Photoshop TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 5 min Move photos between Lightroom Classic and Photoshop Jump between
Adobe Lightroom Classic and Photoshop as you edit your photos. Transcript What you learned: Use Photoshop with Lightroom Send a photo from Lightroom Classic to Photoshop for edits
that change the content of the image, such as removing objects, adding a border, applying a texture, or adding text. Select an image and choose Photo > Edit In > Edit in Adobe
Photoshop 2018. In Photoshop, edit the photo and choose File > Save. A new version of the photo with your Photoshop edits appears in Lightroom Classic; the original remains
untouched by Photoshop. The edited version appears with the original in a stack—click the number on the thumbnail to hide or show the stacked versions. If you want to make
additional changes to the edited version using Photoshop, choose Photo > Edit In > Edit in Adobe Photoshop 2018 again. Select Edit Original and click Edit. Make your changes in
Photoshop and choose File > Save. In Lightroom, the edited version of the photo displays all your changes. Presenter Ben Willmore October 18, 2017 Was this tutorial helpful? More
like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE See what you can do with Adobe Photoshop Lightroom Classic Beginner3 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Edit photos in Lightroom Classic Beginner12 min TUTORIAL
ARTICLE Change the look of a photo with presets Beginner2 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn
Keep the full view in panoramas you create TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 3 min Keep the full view in panoramas you create Learn how to use the Boundary Warp slider in Lightroom
Classic, so you don't have to crop out important details. Adobe Photoshop Lightroom is now Adobe Lightroom Classic, with the same functionality and features. If you're looking for
the all-new photography service, check out Lightroom . What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 18.2 MB Why Boundary Warp? You can combine multiple photos into a stunning
wide-angle panorama using Panorama Merge in Lightroom Classic, but it may result in uneven borders. You could crop out uneven borders with Auto Crop, but cropping often means
losing important details of the full photo. The Boundary Warp slider in Panorama Merge lets you preserve the entire image and solves the problem of uneven white borders. 1 Select
photos to merge into a panorama Open Lightroom Classic on your desktop, and import the practice files provided on this page or your own photos that you've shot for a panorama. To
learn more, see the tutorial Easily import photos . In the Library module, select the sample photos you just imported (or your own pano shots). Then, go to Photo > Photo Merge >
Panorama. 2 Choose Panorama options The Panorama Merge Preview window will appear, where you can preview your image and complete the panorama options. For the sample photo, choose
the Spherical projection option. You'll see this panorama has uneven borders and unwanted white areas along the edges. Check Auto Crop. Notice that it applies a neat rectangular
crop that may result in a composition you like; but sometimes cropping forces you to remove parts of the full image that you'd rather keep. Let's uncheck Auto Crop so you can see
what Boundary Warp does instead. 3 Drag the Boundary Warp slider Drag the Boundary Warp slider to the right until the white border around the panorama preview disappears. Boundary
Warp stretches the edges of the image to neatly fill the frame, retaining the entire image. Now you don't have to sacrifice any important details of this panorama scene! Click the
Merge button to finish your panorama. Learn more in the tutorial Merge photos for a panorama . Contributor Ben Willmore April 6, 2016 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this
TUTORIAL ARTICLE Edit photos in Lightroom Classic Beginner12 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Change colors in an autumn scene Beginner10 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Common questions about Lightroom
Classic Beginner11 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Create a social ad for your business
TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 4 min Create a social ad for your business Learn how to use Lightroom Classic to quickly enhance a picture, use Adobe Fix to make your products pop and
finally use Adobe Spark Post to create a social ad in minutes. Adobe Photoshop Lightroom is now Adobe Lightroom Classic, with the same functionality and features. If you're looking
for the all-new photography service, check out Lightroom . 1 Find a picture and enhance the color Open Lightroom Classic on your device. Find an image from one of your collections
in Lightroom Classic of a product you want to promote. Tap the Options icon at the bottom of the screen. Then tap Presets, and choose Color. Select the Punch 3 preset to make your
colors stand out. Tip: You can also use an image from Camera Roll. 2 Send your photo to Photoshop Fix Now that you have the product photo looking right, you can use Photoshop Fix
to remove any unwanted elements from the shot. In Lightroom Classic, tap the Share icon. Choose Edit in.. > Healing in Photoshop Fix. Tap Ok. 3 Edit your photo in Photoshop Fix In
Photoshop Fix, tap Healing, then Spot Healing. Drag your finger over the stain to remove it from the product image. Tip: You can control how the healing area is selected using the
size and hardness controls. When you're done, tap Touch to save & return to Adobe Lightroom. Lightroom Classic opens showing a new version of your photo. 4 Save your image to a new
collection Tap the Share icon and choose Copy to... In the collections screen that appears, tap the + to create a new collection. Then, tap the checkmark at the top of the screen.
Finally, give your collection a name and tap Ok. 5 Open your photo in Adobe Spark Post Open Spark Post. Tap the + and choose Lightroom. Select the new collection you just created
and choose your product photo. Tip: You can also take a photo with your device camera or import a one from your Photo Library to create a new post. 6 Turn your photo into an ad
Select where you want to publish your ad. Spark Post automatically resizes your post so it works with your destination. In this case, we chose Facebook. Tap Continue when you're
done. Tap the Design button then select a preset and tap the checkmark to apply it. Spark Post has dozens of preset you can use create professional looking ads in minutes. 7 Add
text to your ad Double-tap the text and enter your ad copy. When you're finished, tap Done. Now you can drag the text box to position it anywhere on your ad. If you want to resize
the text, drag one of the anchors. You can also can change the font, color and other text options. Tap the checkmark when you're done Now you're ad is ready to share. You can tap
the Share icon at the top of the screen or upload it to a service like the Facebook Ad Builder . See Facebook blueprint to learn more about creating ads on Facebook. Contributor
Jonathan Petersen May 18, 2016 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Edit and organize your images anywhere Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Edit photos in
Lightroom Classic Beginner12 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Change the look of a photo with presets Beginner2 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Manage and use plugins in Lightroom Classic TUTORIAL ARTICLE Advanced 4 min Manage and use plugins in Lightroom Classic Learn to manage
and use plugins in Lightroom Classic. Adobe Photoshop Lightroom is now Adobe Lightroom Classic, with the same functionality and features. If you're looking for the all-new
photography service, check out Lightroom . Transcript Contributors KelbyOne RC Concepcion December 9, 2013 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Lightroom
Classic interface and workflow Beginner2 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE See what you can do with Adobe Photoshop Lightroom Classic Beginner3 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Get to know the layout of
Lightroom Classic Beginner5 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Lightroom Classic interface and
workflow TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 2 min Lightroom Classic interface and workflow See how to use the Adobe Lightroom Classic interface and learn what you can do with your photos in
the different modules. Transcript Working with the different modules in Lightroom Classic Use the Library module to organize and select your best images Select images in the
filmstrip no matter which module you’re working in Enhance images in the Develop module View photos on a map, create a photo book, slide shows, or prints Contributor Julieanne Kost
June 20, 2018 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Get to know the layout of Lightroom Classic Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE See what you can do with Adobe
Photoshop Lightroom Classic Beginner3 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Edit photos in Lightroom Classic Beginner12 min Browse all tutorials Learn Export a catalog TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 4
min Export a catalog Export the Lightroom Classic catalog as a stand-alone catalog. Understand the export settings and how the files export. Adobe Photoshop Lightroom is now Adobe
Lightroom Classic, with the same functionality and features. If you're looking for the all-new photography service, check out Lightroom . Transcript Contributors lynda.com Chris
Orwig December 9, 2013 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE See what you can do with Adobe Photoshop Lightroom Classic Beginner3 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Export
and print photos from Lightroom Classic Beginner8 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Lightroom Classic interface and workflow Beginner2 min Browse all tutorials Learn Fix an overexposed photo
TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 10 min Fix an overexposed photo Reveal the hidden details in your photos using the Basic sliders in Adobe Photoshop Lightroom Classic. What you'll need
Download sample files ZIP, 2.9 MB Choose File > Import Photos and Video and then add the sample photo, or use your own. Click Auto in the Tone section to see the instant
improvements Lightroom Classic makes. Experiment with the Tone sliders in the Basic panel to see if any of those settings enhance the details in your photo. White triangles in the
Histogram indicate areas of the photo that are too overexposed to show any detail. Try adjusting the Whites and Blacks sliders to see if that helps. The sliders in the Presence
section can also help recover details in your photo. Try adjusting each to see if you like the results. After a few quick adjustments, you can see more of the mountainous
