landscape. Now try turning other overexposed photos into great shots by revealing hidden details. Contributors Emilie Blincoe Natee Meepian August 22, 2018 Was this tutorial
helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Discover the possibilities for enhancing your photos Beginner4 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Edit photos in Lightroom Classic Beginner12 min
TUTORIAL ARTICLE Sharpen details in a photo Beginner4 min Browse all tutorials Learn The Book module TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 4 min The Book module Learn more about the Book
Module. Adobe Photoshop Lightroom is now Adobe Lightroom Classic, with the same functionality and features. If you're looking for the all-new photography service, check out
Lightroom . Transcript Contributors KelbyOne Matt Kloskowski December 10, 2013 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Get to know the layout of Lightroom
Classic Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Lightroom Classic interface and workflow Beginner2 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Manage and use plugins in Lightroom Classic Advanced4 min Browse all
tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Take advantage of automatic landscape masking TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 5
min Take advantage of automatic landscape masking Simplify your image processing workflow with AI-generated landscape masks that isolate specific areas in a scene. Transcript What
you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 9.55 MB Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms . What you'll learn Use AI-generated masks for landscape photos
Click the Masking tool on the right and select Landscape. Lightroom will analyse your image and use AI to detect the different scene elements that it can create masks for,
including sky, mountains, water, vegetation, natural ground, artificial ground, and architecture. Create separate masks Select the different scene areas. When you select more than
one landscape element, you have the option to create separate masks for each area. Click Create and your new masks will appear in the Masks panel so you can make adjustments to
each specific area. Instruction and photography by Glyn Dewis August 19, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Use masks to edit part of a photo in
Lightroom on the web Beginner6 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Create custom masks for precise image adjustments Intermediate6 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Edit part of a photo with masks Beginner6
min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Add effects and improve detail TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 12
min Add effects and improve detail Learn how to apply Clarity and Dehaze, add a vignette, reduce noise, and sharpen your photos in Lightroom. What you'll need Download sample files
ZIP, 7.2 MB 1 Apply Clarity Apply a Clarity adjustment to enhance midtone contrast in a photo in Lightroom. What you learned: Use the Clarity adjustment With a photo selected,
click the Edit icon in the column on the right. In the Effects panel, drag the Clarity slider to the right to increase midtone contrast and sharpness, bringing out detail in
midtone areas. Drag the Clarity slider to the left to decrease midtone contrast and sharpness, for a softening effect. 2 Reduce haze Use the unique Dehaze adjustment to reduce or
add haze in a photo in Lightroom. What you learned: Use the Dehaze adjustment With a photo selected, click the Edit icon in the column on the right. In the Effects panel, drag the
Dehaze slider to the right to cut through haze or mist in a scene to reveal more detail and color. If this increases color saturation more than you’d like, in the Color panel drag
the Saturation or Vibrance slider to the left. Drag the Dehaze slider to the left to increase haze in a photo. 3 Add a vignette Darken or lighten the edges of a photo with a
vignette in Lightroom. What you learned: Add a vignette With a photo selected, click the Edit icon in the column on the right. In the Effects panel, drag the Vignette slider to the
right to add a dark vignette to the edges of the photo. The vignette draws attention to subjects in the center of the photo. Drag the Vignette slider to the left to create a white
vignette for an old-fashioned look. To fine-tune the shape of a vignette, click the triangle at the top right of the Vignette slider to reveal additional controls, and adjust the
Feather, Midpoint, and Roundness sliders. 4 Reduce noise Reduce digital noise in a photo in Lightroom. What you learned: Use the noise reduction controls Shooting in dark lighting
conditions or with your camera set to a high ISO can produce digital noise that looks like specks of grain and is most visible in dark areas of a photo. Use the noise reduction
sliders in the Detail panel to reduce digital noise: With a photo selected, click the Edit icon in the column on the right. Click 1:1 in the toolbar, or click on the photo, to zoom
in to 1:1 view, which is the best way to see and evaluate digital noise. In the Detail panel, drag the Color Noise Reduction slider to the right to reduce specks of color noise.
Drag the Noise Reduction slider to the right to reduce specks of grayscale noise. If the photo looks too smooth with that adjustment, move the slider back toward the left. 5
Sharpen a photo Sharpen a photo in Lightroom. What you learned: Use the Sharpening controls Most photos benefit from some sharpening. With a photo selected, click the Edit icon in
the column on the right. Click 1:1 in the toolbar, or click on the photo, to zoom in to 1:1 view, which is the best way to evaluate sharpness in a photo. In the Detail panel, drag
the Sharpening slider to the right to control the amount of sharpening. If you’re satisfied with the result, this is often all you need to do. For more control over sharpening,
click the triangle at the top right of the Sharpening slider to reveal additional sharpening sliders. Set the Radius slider to control the width of the edge halos that create the
appearance of sharpness. Set the Detail slider to control which details in a photo are sharpened. The further you drag to the right, the more details are sharpened. Hold the Alt
key (Windows) or the Option key (MacOS) and drag the Masking slider to view a grayscale mask of the photo. The black areas represent parts of the photo that will be protected from
sharpening; the white lines represent edges that will be sharpened. You can use this control to avoid sharpening unwanted details, like grain in a sky. Photographer Jillian
Lukiwski Photographer Pablo Alarcon Photographer Adrien Radford Presenter Jan Kabili December 13, 2017 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Sharpen your
photos Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Bring dull photos to life with Clarity and Dehaze Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Adjust the brightness of your photos Beginner5 min Browse all
tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Add warm light to dark photos TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 10 min Add warm
light to dark photos Create the effect of light in the windows of a building with Adobe Photoshop Lightroom. What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 4.9 MB This sample file is
an Adobe Stock image you can use to practice what you learn in this tutorial. If you want to use the sample file beyond this tutorial, you can purchase a license on Adobe Stock .
Check out the ReadMe file in the folder for the terms that apply to your use of this sample file. Click the + icon and then add the sample photo, or use your own. Start with a
photo of a building at dusk with a cool evening light outside. Choose the Brush tool to isolate the area you want to brighten. Set the brush size to fit the area you want to
adjust, and then brush over the window. Use the O key on your keyboard to toggle the red overlay to see the areas you have brushed. Increase the Temp and Tint to adjust the white
balance. Then increase the Exposure to create the effect of a warm light coming from the window. Brush over different parts of the photo to apply the same settings. Or, click the +
icon in the Brush panel to apply new settings to different parts of the photo. See the effect that some quick local adjustments can make to your photos. Now you can add a bit of
light to your architectural photos. For more detailed information on using the Brush tool, or other selective editing tools, check out the Make selective edits tutorial. With Adobe
Stock, you have access to more than 100 million high-quality, royalty-free images including photos, graphics, videos, and templates to jump-start your creative projects. Try Adobe
Stock and get 10 free images. Adobe Stock Contributors irantzuarb itim2101 August 8, 2018 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Enhance the colors in a sunset
Beginner2 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Lighten and darken different parts of a photo Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Combine images using Photoshop with Lightroom Beginner5 min Browse all
tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Create incredible landscape photos with Lightroom TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner
13 min Create incredible landscape photos with Lightroom See how pro photographer Chris Burkard prepares for a landscape shoot, and get his tips for conveying scale and using
perspective to make the difference between a good photo and a great one. Make your landscapes pop with basic edits Fix camera lens distortions, use Auto Tone to make overall
improvements, and move sliders to adjust exposure, haze, shadows, and more. Then bring out details with the Clarity and Sharpening sliders, and remove flaws with the Spot Healing
Brush. Use the landscape profile and the Linear Gradient tool Create a better starting point for your edits by applying the Adobe Landscape remove color profile and using Auto Tone
for general enhancements. Adjust lighting, bring out details, remove haze, and fix crooked horizons. Then make specific areas like skies stand out with the Linear Gradient tool.
Use Lightroom on mobile for landscape photography Edit your JPEGs or raw files anywhere you are. Apply the Adobe Landscape profile to make colors stand out. Use Auto Tone, then
lighten shadows and adjust lighting. Edit specific areas with the Linear Gradient, and then sync your edits across all your devices. Composite your landscape photos with Photoshop
Straighten your photos using the Content-Aware Crop tool to automatically fill in details at the edges. Remove distracting elements with Content-Aware Fill. And easily replace the
sky from one photo with the sky from another using Quick Select, copy/paste, and Free Transform. Contributors Terry White Chris Burkard May 10, 2018 Was this tutorial helpful? More
like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Add and organize your photos from anywhere Beginner3 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Share your photos from anywhere Beginner2 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Get to know
Lightroom on the web Beginner3 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Crop and adjust perspective
TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 10 min Crop and adjust perspective Learn how to crop, straighten, and use Upright to adjust perspective in Lightroom. What you'll need Download sample
files ZIP, 7.4 MB 1 Crop a photo Use the Crop tool to crop a photo in Lightroom. What you learned: Work with the Crop tool With a photo selected, click the Crop tool in the column
on the right. The Crop panel opens, and a crop box appears around the photo. Drag any edge of the crop box to adjust the size of the box. All four edges move together and the crop
box maintains its proportions if the Lock icon in the Crop panel is closed. To drag the edges of the Crop box independently for a custom crop, click the Lock icon to set it to
unlocked. To crop to a common aspect ratio, such as 1 x 1 for a square crop, click the Aspect menu and choose a preset aspect ratio. Click inside the crop box and drag to position
the photo in the crop box. Press Enter or Return to finish the crop. Like all edits, you can re-adjust a crop at any time. Click the Aspect menu and choose Original to reset a
crop. 2 Straighten a crooked photo Use the Crop tool to straighten a photo in Lightroom. What you learned: Straighten a photo With a photo selected, click the Crop tool in the
column on the right. In the crop panel, click the Auto button above the Straighten slider. Lightroom automatically rotates the photo in the crop box to try to straighten horizontal
or vertical content. To straighten a photo manually or to fine-tune the results of Auto straighten, drag the Straighten slider left or right, using the grid lines that appear as
guides. 3 Adjust perspective with upright Use the Upright controls in the Geometry panel to adjust perspective in Lightroom. What you learned: Use Upright options to adjust
perspective Use the Upright controls in the Geometry panel to adjust perspective in a photo. With a photo selected, click the Edit icon in the column on the right. Open the
Geometry panel in the column of editing controls. Click through the automatic options in the Upright menu–Auto, Level, Vertical, and Full –until you get a result you like. To
remove an upright adjustment, choose Off in the Upright menu. For more control of an upright adjustment, choose Guided from the Upright menu. Click and drag along an edge in the
scene that you think should be horizontal or vertical to add an upright guide. Repeat along another horizontal or vertical edge to adjust the perspective in the photo. You can
continue to add up to four guides to fine-tune perspective. If an upright adjustment creates blank edges around a photo, click Constrain Crop in the Geometry panel or use the Crop
tool to crop away those edges. Photographer Jillian Lukiwski Photographer Pablo Alarcon Photographer Adrien Radford Presenter Jan Kabili December 13, 2017 Was this tutorial
helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Crop and straighten your photos Beginner2 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Apply perspective correction to fix skewed and tilted angles Beginner6 min
TUTORIAL ARTICLE Adjust perspective and image geometry Beginner2 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support
Learn Use Lightroom across your devices TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 11 min Use Lightroom across your devices Learn how to sync photos and edits between your computers, mobile
devices, and the web using Lightroom. What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 4.4 MB 1 Sync with Lightroom on your mobile devices Sync your photos and changes through the Cloud
and across devices. What you learned: Sync between Lightroom on your computer and mobile devices Your photos and any changes you make to them in Lightroom automatically sync
through the Cloud and appear in Lightroom on your computer and your iOS and Android phones and tablets. Add photos to Lightroom on your computer and include them in an album. The
originals are automatically uploaded to the Adobe cloud at full resolution. Switch to Lightroom on your mobile device, and you’ll see the same album you made in Lightroom on your
computer with the same photos. Photos you add to Lightroom on a mobile device act the same way. Those might be photos you capture with your mobile device, or photos you download to
the camera roll on your mobile device from an email, text message, or social media. Note: If you capture a photo with the Lightroom in-app camera on a mobile device, that photo is
automatically included in your photo library, uploaded to the Cloud, and synced across your devices. Photo edits and changes to metadata you make in Lightroom also sync through the
Cloud and appear on all your devices. For example, on a phone, add a photo to Lightroom from your device camera roll. In Lightroom on the phone, tap the photo to open it in Edit
mode. Tap the Crop tool, tap the Aspect menu, and choose 1 x 1 Square. Tap the checkmark to crop the photo to a square. Switch to Lightroom on your computer to view the photo there
with the square crop you applied in Lightroom on your phone. Edit the photo further in Lightroom on your computer. For example, click the Brush tool in the column on the right,
paint over part of the photo and adjust one or more sliders in the Brush panel. Switch back to your phone, and you’ll see those edits on the photo in Lightroom on your phone too. 2
Work with Lightroom on multiple computers Use Lightroom with the same photos on more than one computer. What you learned: Use Lightroom across computers Add, edit or organize
photos in Lightroom on one computer, and those changes will sync through the Cloud to Lightroom on an additional computer. This means, for example, that you can use Lightroom on a
desktop and laptop computer, or on a computer at home and another at work, with everything automatically at your fingertips. For example, in Lightroom on one of your computers, add
a photo to your photo library and edit it by applying a black and white preset. The photo and your edits are automatically uploaded to the Cloud. When you switch to another
computer on which you’ve installed Lightroom and signed into Creative Cloud with your Adobe ID, you’ll see the same photo with the same black and white preset. 3 Get to know
Lightroom on the Web Use Lightroom with Lightroom on the Web. What you learned: Using Lightroom with Lightroom on the Web Photos you add to Lightroom and changes you make to them
are automatically available to you in Lightroom on the Web, and vice versa. So you can view, share, and work on your photos even if you don’t have your own computer or mobile
device with you. In a web browser, navigate to lightroom.adobe.com and sign in with your Adobe ID. This takes you to Lightroom on the Web, where you’ll see all photos you added,
albums you created, and edits you made to your photos in Lightroom on your computers and mobile devices. In Lightroom on the Web, you can share an album of your photos, create and
share a gallery of your photos, view a slideshow of your photos, and more. You also can add and edit photos directly in Lightroom on the Web and those changes automatically appear
in Lightroom on all your devices. In Lightroom on the Web, select a photo, click Edit this Photo, and adjust one or more editing controls. Click Save & Exit. Switch to Lightroom on
your computer, and you’ll see the photo there with the edit you applied in Lightroom on the Web. Photographer Jillian Lukiwski Photographer Pablo Alarcon Photographer Adrien
Radford Presenter Jan Kabili December 13, 2017 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Get to know Lightroom on the web Beginner4 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Lightroom
for Android Beginner10 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Essentials of the Lightroom ecosystem Beginner2 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing &
Commerce Learn & Support Learn Turn a photo into a silhouette TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 10 min Turn a photo into a silhouette Silhouettes add an artistic effect to photos. You can
turn a photo into a graphic silhouette to add drama, or simply make up for poor lighting in a fun and creative way. For this tutorial, we’ll use the Brush tool in Adobe Photoshop
Lightroom to adjust the subject of a photo so it is in silhouette. Feel free to experiment with the photo provided with this tutorial, or use your own. What you'll need Download
sample files ZIP, 988 KB Isolate the subject with Auto Mask Highlight the person in the photo using the Brush tool with Auto Mask enabled. Auto Mask detects the edges of an object
in an image by sampling the colors and tones where you start brushing. This will help you brush over the person without including unintended areas. Choose the Brush tool and adjust
the brush size using the Size slider in the Brush panel. Or, use the shortcut keys — the left bracket key on your keyboard ([) to decrease brush size, or the right bracket key (])
to increase it. In the Brush panel, click the triangle to the right of the Brush slider to view additional brush settings. Check Auto Mask, then press O on your keyboard a few
times until the red mask overlay appears and stays enabled, showing where you have brushed. Set Feather to 0 to create a sharper brush for crisper edges. Increase the Flow to apply
the brush effect more quickly. Increase the Density to limit the transparency of the effect. Then, brush to paint a mask over the person. Tip: Hold the spacebar as you move the
mouse to pan to different parts of a zoomed-in image. Darken the shape Use the edit sliders to darken the subject and create a silhouette. Press O to turn off the red mask overlay
so you can see the effects your adjustments have. Adjust sliders to lower the Exposure, Highlights, Shadows, and Blacks. Sample settings: Exposure: -4.00; Highlights: -100;
Shadows: -100; Blacks: -100 Apply the finishing touches You may need to adjust your silhouette if any areas you wanted brushed were not included with Auto Mask enabled. Click the
blue pin where you started the adjustment. Uncheck Auto Mask in the brush settings, and then brush the areas that need refining. Tip: Mouse over the image and press O to display
the blue pin. You may also need to erase effects of the brush that were accidentally included with Auto Mask enabled. Select the Eraser tool, with Auto Mask enabled, to brush over
unintended adjustments. To edit a previous enhancement, click the blue pin related to the specific edit, and then adjust the sliders as needed. Click the Show/Hide Original toggle
at the bottom of the screen. Or, use the shortcut key (/) on your keyboard at any point to switch between the before and after views of the photo. Tip: For more detailed
information on using the Brush tool, or other selective editing tools, check out the Make selective edits tutorial. May 30, 2018 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL
ARTICLE Paint lighting effects on parts of a photo Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Lighten and darken different parts of a photo Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Edit different parts
of a photo in Lightroom on mobile Beginner5 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Remove lens dust
TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 10 min Remove lens dust A dusty lens can add unwanted spots to your photos. Remove them easily with the Healing Brush in Adobe Photoshop Lightroom. What
you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 360K Click the + icon and add the sample photo, or use your own. Choose the Healing Brush and set the mode to Heal. Check Visualize Spots and
adjust the Threshold to reveal the right amount of contrast in the inverted image. This will also show textures in your image, so be careful to edit just the spots you want to
remove. Adjust the brush size to fit the area you want to touch up. Use the bracket keys ([ ]) to resize the brush from your keyboard. Drag over larger imperfections such as hairs
or scratches. Click to heal small areas such as dust spots. Pinch to zoom in, or use the Hand tool (press spacebar and drag) to pan and focus on the area you want to edit. The
Healing Brush takes the shading and color of the sample area and applies it to the area you want to fix. To change the sample source, drag the circle to a new area of the image.
See how clear your photo looks with the imperfections removed. Now you don’t have to let a little dust ruin your shots — clear them up with Lightroom. Photographer Yinan Chen Adobe
Stock Contributor whyframeshot September 12, 2018 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Remove spots and small distractions Beginner2 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE
Remove distracting objects from a photo Beginner5 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Paint lighting effects on parts of a photo Beginner5 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Improve a portrait TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 10 min Improve a portrait Make family and friends look great in a
portrait by brushing in enhancements using Adobe Photoshop Lightroom. For this tutorial, we’ll use the Brush tool to enhance different parts of the photo. Feel free to experiment
with the photo provided, or use your own. What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 872 KB Darken the eyebrows Enhance the eyebrows to be a bit more noticeable. Choose the Brush
tool and adjust the brush size using the Size slider in the Brush panel. Or, use the shortcut keys — the left bracket key on your keyboard ([) to decrease brush size, or the right
bracket key (]) to increase it. In the Brush panel, click the triangle to the right of the Brush slider to view additional brush settings. For example, you can increase the Feather
amount to add softness to the edges of the brush. Brush over the eyebrows and then adjust some of the settings, such as decreasing Exposure and Blacks and increasing Clarity.
Experiment with the settings to find the effect you like. Sample settings: Brush size: 2.9; Feather: 100; Exposure: -0.30; Blacks: -7, Clarity: +11 Tip: To toggle between the
overlay settings, press the O shortcut key. Click once to show the blue pin you can select to adjust a specific edit. Click a second time to show the red mask to see the areas
you’ve brushed with the adjustment brush. Click a third time to hide the overlay. Sharpen the eyelashes Frame the eyes with darker eyelashes to make them stand out. If you want to
apply different adjustments to the eyelashes, create a new brush by clicking the (+) icon in the Brush panel. Brush over the top and bottom eyelash and rim for each eye. Then,
adjust to make the lashes darker and sharper. If you accidentally brush unintended areas, click the eraser in the Brush panel, and brush over those areas to remove the edit. Sample
settings: Brush size: 1.6; Exposure: -0.44; Blacks: -17 Brighten the irises Enhance the color of the irises to make the eyes pop. Click the (+) icon to create a new brush. To reset
the edit sliders you used in the previous step, right-click any of the sliders and select Reset All Sliders. Brush around each of the irises and adjust to enhance the blue.
Experiment with the Temp and Saturation sliders to see a range of effects in eye color. Sample settings: Brush size: 3.0; Temp: +4; Exposure: +0.30 Lighten the whites of the eyes
Brighten the whites of the eyes to create more contrast with the irises. Create a new brush and brush the whites of the eyes. Increase the exposure to brighten the whites while
still making them look natural. Sample settings: Brush size: 1.7; Exposure: +0.40 Deepen lip color Modify the lip color with richer tones. Create a new brush and brush over the
lips. Adjust some tone sliders to bring out a natural red color in them. Sample settings: Brush size: 2.0; Temp: 0; Tint: +5; Exposure: -0.25; Saturation: +20 Apply the finishing
touches To edit a previous enhancement, click the blue pin related to the specific edit and adjust the sliders as needed. Click the Show/Hide Original toggle at the bottom of the
screen. Or, use the shortcut key (/) on your keyboard at any point to switch between the before and after views of the photo. Tip: For more detailed information on using the Brush
tool, or other selective editing tools, check out the Make selective edits tutorial. May 30, 2018 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Add and organize your
photos from anywhere Beginner3 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Share your photos from anywhere Beginner2 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Get to know Lightroom on the web Beginner3 min Browse all
tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn How Kelsey McClellan turns everyday moments into a mood. TUTORIAL ARTICLE
Intermediate 6 min How Kelsey McClellan turns everyday moments into a mood. Photographer Kelsey McClellan is known for her bold color palettes and use of shadows. Using Generative
upscale with Topaz Gigapixel in Lightroom, she’s able to boost clarity and improve texture for a professional finish every time. "Generative upscale was exactly what I needed to
get my phone images up to the same level of quality I was making with my pro equipment.” What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 4.04 MB Step 1: Get the light just right.
Kelsey captured this image on an early morning walk around her San Francisco neighborhood. She used the Light sliders to get the Highlights, Shadows, and Contrast to better reflect
the moment. Step 2: Saturate the colors. Kelsey often matches the tones to colors in vintage postcards she likes to collect. Here, she increased Temp and Tint in the Color panel
and tweaked the hues with the Color Mixer. Step 3: Cool the tone. Kelsey likes to reflect the mood with adjustments to Shadows and Highlights in Color Grading. “I want my edits to
feel cohesive to my overall body of work, but also true to the time.” Step 4: Boost clarity. Using Generative upscale with Topaz Gigapixel Kelsey quickly improved detail and
enhanced textures, making her phone images ready for print. Instruction by Kelsey McClellan March 31, 2026 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Tip: Compare
edit styles with Versions in Lightroom mobile Beginner3 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Improve color, lighting, and clarity in underwater photos Intermediate6 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Tip:
Improve your photo editing with Lightroom Community Beginner3 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn
Improve color, lighting, and clarity in underwater photos TUTORIAL ARTICLE Intermediate 6 min Improve color, lighting, and clarity in underwater photos Transform underwater images
with Lightroom to correct color, emphasize the subject, enhance details, and remove haze. Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 620.7 KB Note: Stock assets
provided are for practice purposes only. See terms . What you’ll learn Restore natural colors with the White Balance tools Photographs taken underwater often have a strong blue or
green color cast. You can restore a more natural color balance to the scene by using the White Balance eyedropper to click on an area that should be neutral, such as the gray
shark, or adjusting the Temp and Tint sliders to remove the cast by increasing blue and magenta. Fine-tune the color with a Color Mixer adjustment Some underwater color casts may
require further adjustments, especially if using the White Balance tools for the subject has resulted in changes to the rest of the image, such as the ocean in this scene. The
Color Mixer panel lets you adjust specific colors to fine-tune the colors in the image. Apply separate adjustments to the subject and the background For scenes where there are a
clear subject and background, you can use the masking tools to create AI-generated masks for those areas and then apply adjustments that are customized for each area. Enhance the
texture and details of the shark To bring out details in the subject and remove some of the murky quality that is present in some underwater photos, you can make the subject mask
active and modify three sliders in the Effects panel: Texture, Clarity, and Dehaze. Remove particles with the Healing Brush In many photos taken in the ocean, there are often
visible particles floating in the water. To clean these up, you can open the Remove panel and use the Heal tool to click on each particle and remove them from the scene.
Instruction and photography by Aliah Banchik January 5, 2026 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Make precise adjustments to specific colors in Lightroom
Intermediate6 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Turn a photo into a silhouette Beginner10 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Lighten and darken different parts of a photo Beginner5 min Browse all tutorials
Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Upscale cropped images with improved clarity and sharpness TUTORIAL ARTICLE
Intermediate 6 min Upscale cropped images with improved clarity and sharpness Enlarge tightly cropped photos and improve details using Generative Upscale with Topaz Gigapixel in
Lightroom. Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 32.6 MB Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms. What you’ll learn Common use-cases
for Generative Upscale Generative Upscale uses the Topaz Gigapixel partner model for upscaling images and is useful when you need to enlarge a photo while preserving detail and
clarity. It works well for improving low-resolution scans, photos from older digital cameras, or images that have been tightly cropped. Generative Upscale works with raw and other
file formats and can be used with files in either Cloud or Local storage. Create a new composition with a tighter crop Applying a tighter crop can help you refine a composition by
focusing attention on your main subject. It can also reduce image dimensions, however, which can affect image quality, especially when making a larger print. This is where
Generative Upscale can help to enlarge a cropped photo, as well as improve clarity and detail. Upscale your image by 2x or 4x With Generative Upscale, you can enlarge your photo by
either 2× or 4× its current size. This increases the pixel dimensions and also improves sharpness and detail in the enlarged image. This process will use either 10 or 20 generative
credits, depending on the final size of the upscaled image. When to use Generative Upscale The Generative Upscale process will create a new DNG file with all your current
adjustments permanently applied, so the optimal time to use it is at the end of the editing workflow, after you’ve finished editing your photo. Evaluate details and understand
upscale limitations After upscaling a photo, click 100% at the bottom of the Lightroom interface to compare the original and enlarged images at full size to evaluate the results.
Keep in mind that the quality of the original image can affect the results, and details and clarity may appear soft if the original file was unsharp or heavily cropped to a small
area of the original image. Instruction by Glyn Dewis Photography by Seán Duggan March 23, 2026 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Tip: Compare edit styles
with Versions in Lightroom mobile Beginner3 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE How Kelsey McClellan turns everyday moments into a mood. Intermediate6 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Improve color,
lighting, and clarity in underwater photos Intermediate6 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Use
masks to edit part of a photo in Lightroom on the web TUTORIAL ARTICLE Beginner 6 min Use masks to edit part of a photo in Lightroom on the web Apply targeted edits to refine and
enhance specific areas in an image with Lightroom’s AI-powered masking tools. Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 2.7 MB Note: Stock assets provided are for
practice purposes only. See terms . What you’ll learn Adjustments to the entire photo vs. adjustments to specific areas Lightroom on the web has many ways that you can adjust the
brightness, contrast, or color in your images. Edits that affect the entire photo are referred to as global adjustments. With the masking tools, you can apply changes to specific
parts of a photo with more precise control. Use AI-powered masks for the sky & objects The masking panel offers many ways to create a mask, including several that are powered by AI
to identify specific areas such as the subject, sky, or background. The Object mask tool lets you loosely brush around an object in the scene, and Lightroom will create a precise
mask for that object. Refine masks with add & subtract To modify a mask, click the Add or Subtract buttons below the mask in the Masks panel, then choose the type of masking tool
you want to use to edit the mask. Create automatic masks for landscape areas Click the Landscape button in the masks panel to tell Lightroom to analyze the scene and identify
specific scene elements that are often found in landscape images. Masks can be created for areas such as the sky, water, mountains, vegetation, natural ground, artificial ground,
snow, and even architectural elements, such as bridges. Create masks to select people and backgrounds For photos that contain people, Lightroom will identify the different people
in the image and can create detailed masks for the entire person, or for specific areas, such as the skin, facial features, hair, and clothing. You can use the Background mask
option to quickly create a mask to apply an adjustment to only the background in a photo. Instruction and photography by Glyn Dewis December 15, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful?
More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Edit part of a photo with masks Beginner6 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Create custom masks for precise image adjustments Intermediate6 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE
Edit different parts of a photo in Lightroom on mobile Beginner5 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support
Learn Make precise adjustments to specific colors in Lightroom TUTORIAL ARTICLE Intermediate 6 min Make precise adjustments to specific colors in Lightroom Learn how the Color
Variance slider gives you control over subtle adjustments to a particular color in your image. Transcript What you'll need Download sample files ZIP, 3.5 MB Note: Stock assets
provided are for practice purposes only. See terms . What you’ll learn Select a specific color in the image The first step for using Color Variance is to use the eyedropper tool at
the top of the Point Color panel to sample a color in your image. Choose a color that is approximately midway between the darkest and lightest versions of the general color you
want to change. Understand how Variance affects a range of color The Variance slider will affect a range of colors that are similar to the color you sampled with the eyedropper
tool. Moving the slider to the left will cause the range of colors to become more alike, while moving the slider to the right will increase the contrast between the colors and
enhance their differences. Use Variance with masks for more precise control A Variance adjustment that is applied to the entire image may affect other areas that you do not want to
change. You can apply the Variance adjustment to specific areas in a scene by creating a mask, so the change is only applied to the masked region that you select. Fix uneven sky
color in landscape photos Variance can work well to remove color shifts in a blue sky that are sometimes created when a polarizing filter is used. Minimize redness and create
natural, even skin tones in a portrait In portrait subjects you can move the Variance slider to the left to remove the redness from a sunburn or fix blotchy or uneven skin tones.
If the skin tone appears too uniform, move the slider back to the right until you find a balance that results in a more natural look. Instruction and photography by Seán Duggan
Adobe Stock Contributors Volha Murashka December 15, 2025 Was this tutorial helpful? More like this TUTORIAL ARTICLE Tip: Compare edit styles with Versions in Lightroom mobile
Beginner3 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE How Kelsey McClellan turns everyday moments into a mood. Intermediate6 min TUTORIAL ARTICLE Improve color, lighting, and clarity in underwater photos
Intermediate6 min Browse all tutorials Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Learn Make precise adjustments to specific colors in
