349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page i

FREE
The Future of
a Radical Price

CHRIS ANDERSON

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page ii

Published by Random House Business Books 2009
2 4 6 8 10 9 7 5 3 1
Copyright © Chris Anderson 2009
Chris Anderson has asserted his right under the Copyright, Designs
and Patents Act, 1988, to be identified as the author of this work
This book is sold subject to the condition that it shall not, by way of trade
or otherwise, be lent, resold, hired out, or otherwise circulated without the publisher’s
prior consent in any form of binding or cover other than that in which it
is published and without a similar condition, including this condition,
being imposed on the subsequent purchaser.
First published in the United States in 2009 by Hyperion, New York
First published in Great Britain in 2009 by
Random House Business Books
Random House, 20 Vauxhall Bridge Road,
London SW1V 2SA
www.rbooks.co.uk
This abridged edition first published in 2009
Addresses for companies within The Random House Group Limited
can be found at: www.randomhouse.co.uk/offices.htm
The Random House Group Limited Reg. No. 954009
A CIP catalogue record for this book
is available from the British Library
ISBN 9781847940445
The Random House Group Limited supports The Forest Stewardship
Council (FSC), the leading international forest certification organisation.
All our titles that are printed on Greenpeace approved FSC certified paper
carry the FSC logo. Our paper procurement policy can be found at
www.rbooks.co.uk/environment

Mixed Sources
Product group from well-managed
forests and other controlled sources
www.fsc.org Cert no. TT-COC-2139
© 1996 Forest Stewardship Council

Typeset in Electra by Palimpsest Book Production Limited,
Grangemouth, Stirlingshire
Printed and bound in the UK by CPI Bookmarque Ltd, Croydon, Surrey

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

15:41

Page iii

CONTENTS

Prologue

1

1. THE BIRTH OF FREE

7

WHAT IS FREE?
2. FREE 101

14

A Short Course on a Most Misunderstood Word
3. THE HISTORY OF FREE

25

Zero, Lunch, and the Enemies of Capitalism
4. THE PSYCHOLOGY OF FREE

45

It Feels Good. Too Good?

DIGITAL FREE
5. TOO CHEAP TO MATTER

61

The Web’s Lesson: When Something Halves in Price Each
Year, Zero Is Inevitable
6. “INFORMATION WANTS TO BE FREE”

77

The History of a Phrase That Defined the Digital Age
7. COMPETING WITH FREE

84

Microsoft Learned How to Do It Over Decades, but Yahoo
Had Just Months
8. DE-MONETIZATION

97

Google and the Birth of a Twenty-First-Century Economic
Model
9. THE NEW MEDIA MODELS

Free Media Is Nothing New. What Is New Is the Expansion
of That Model to Everything Else Online

110

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

15:41

iv

l

Page iv

CONTENTS

10. HOW BIG IS THE FREE ECONOMY?

131

There’s More to It Than Just Dollars and Cents

FREE ECONOMICS AND THE FREE WORLD
11. ECON 000

137

How a Century-old Joke Became the Law of
Digital Economics
12. NONMONETARY ECONOMIES

146

Where Money Doesn’t Rule, What Does?
13. WASTE IS (SOMETIMES) GOOD

154

The Best Way to Exploit Abundance Is to Relinquish
Control
14. FREE WORLD

162

China and Brazil Are the Frontiers of Free. What Can
We Learn from Them?
15. IMAGINING ABUNDANCE

171

Thought Experiments in “Post-Scarcity” Societies, from
Science Fiction to Religion
16. “YOU GET WHAT YOU PAY FOR”

177

And Other Doubts About Free
CODA
Free in a Time of Economic Crisis

197

FREE RULES
The Ten Principles of Abundance Thinking

201

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 1

PROLOGUE

In November 2008, the surviving members of the original Monty Python

team, stunned by the extent of digital piracy of their videos, issued a very
stern announcement on YouTube:
For 3 years you YouTubers have been ripping us off, taking tens of thousands
of our videos and putting them on YouTube. Now the tables are turned.
It’s time for us to take matters into our own hands.
We know who you are, we know where you live and we could come
after you in ways too horrible to tell. But being the extraordinarily nice
chaps we are, we’ve figured a better way to get our own back: We’ve launched
our own Monty Python channel on YouTube.
No more of those crap quality videos you’ve been posting. We’re giving
you the real thing—high quality videos delivered straight from our vault.
What’s more, we’re taking our most viewed clips and uploading brand new
high quality versions. And what’s even more, we’re letting you see absolutely
everything for free. So there!
But we want something in return.
None of your driveling, mindless comments. Instead, we want you to
click on the links, buy our movies & TV shows and soften our pain and
disgust at being ripped off all these years.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

2

13:48

l

Page 2

CHRIS ANDERSON

Three months later, the results of this rash experiment with Free were
in. Monty Python’s DVDs had climbed to No. 2 on Amazon’s Movies
and TV best-sellers list, with increased sales of 23,000 percent.
So there!
Free worked, and worked brilliantly. More than 2 million people
watched the clips on YouTube as word of mouth spread and parents
introduced their children to the Black Knight and the Dead Parrot
Sketch. Thousands of viewers were reminded how much they loved Monty
Python and wanted more, so they ordered the DVDs. Response videos,
mashups, and remixes spread, and a new generation learned the proper
meaning of “Killer Rabbit.” And all this cost Monty Python essentially
nothing, since YouTube paid all the bandwidth and storage costs, such
as they were.
What’s surprising about this example is how unsurprising it is. There
are countless other cases just like this online, where pretty much everything is given away for free in some version with the hopes of selling
something else—or, even more frequently, with no expectation of pay
at all.
I’m typing these words on a $250 “netbook” computer, which is the
fastest growing new category of laptop. The operating system happens to
be a version of free Linux, although it doesn’t matter since I don’t run
any programs but the free Firefox Web browser. I’m not using Microsoft
Word, but rather free Google Docs, which has the advantage of making
my drafts available to me wherever I am, and I don’t have to worry about
backing them up since Google takes care of that for me. Everything else
I do on this computer is free, from my email to my Twitter feeds. Even
the wireless access is free, thanks to the coffee shop I’m sitting in.
And yet Google is one of the most profitable companies in America,
the “Linux ecosystem” is a $30 billion industry, and the coffee shop seems
to be selling $3 lattes as fast as they can make them.
Therein lies the paradox of Free: People are making lots of money
charging nothing. Not nothing for everything, but nothing for enough
that we have essentially created an economy as big as a good-sized country
around the price of $0.00. How did this happen and where is it going?
That’s the central question of this book.
For me, it started with a loose end in The Long Tail. My first book

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 3

l

3

was about the new shape of consumer demand, when everything is
available and we can choose from the infinite aisle rather than just the
best-seller bin. The abundant marketplace of the Long Tail was enabled by
the unlimited “shelf space” of the Internet, which is the first distribution
system in history that is as well suited for the niche as for the mass, for
the obscure as well as the mainstream. The result was the birth of a wildly
diverse new culture and a threat to the institutions of the existing one,
from mainstream media to music labels.
There’s only one way you can have unlimited shelf space: if that shelf
space costs nothing. The near-zero “marginal costs” of digital distribution
(that is, the additional cost of sending out another copy beyond the
“fixed costs” of the required hardware with which to do it) allow us to be
indiscriminate in what we use it for—no gatekeepers are required to decide
if something deserves global reach or not. And out of that free-for-all
came the miracle of today’s Web, the greatest accumulation of human
knowledge, experience, and expression the world has ever seen. So that’s
what free shelf space can do. As I marveled over the consequences, I
started thinking more about Free, and realized just how far it had spread.
It didn’t just explain the explosion of variety online, it defined the pricing
there, too. What’s more, this “free” wasn’t just a marketing gimmick like
the free samples and prizes inside that we’re used to in traditional retail.
This free seemed to have no strings attached: It wasn’t just a lure for a
future sale, but genuinely gratis. Most of us depend on one or more
Google services every day, but they never show up on our credit card. No
meter ticks as you use Facebook. Wikipedia costs you nothing.
Twenty-first-century Free is different from twentieth-century Free.
Somewhere in the transition from atoms to bits, a phenomenon that we
thought we understood was transformed. “Free” became Free.
Surely economics must have something to say about this, I thought.
But I couldn’t find anything. No theories of gratis, or pricing models that
went to zero. (In fairness, some do exist, as later research would reveal.
But they were mostly obscure academic discussions of “two-sided markets”
and, as we’ll see in the economics chapter, nearly forgotten theories from
the nineteenth century.) Somehow an economy had emerged around Free
before the economic model that could describe it.
Thus this book, an exploration of a concept that is in the midst of

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

4

13:48

l

Page 4

CHRIS ANDERSON

radical evolution. As I came to learn, Free is both a familiar concept and
a deeply mysterious one. It is as powerful as it is misunderstood. The Free
that emerged over the past decade is different from the Free that came
before, but how and why are rarely explored. What’s more, today’s Free
is full of apparent contradictions: You can make money giving things away.
There really is a free lunch. Sometimes you get more than you pay for.
This was a fun book to write. It took me from the patent medicine
makers of late-nineteenth-century America to the pirate markets of China.
I dived into the psychology of gifts and the morality of waste. I started a
project on the side to try out new business models around electronics
where the intellectual property is free (a model known as open source
hardware). I got to brainstorm with my publishers on the many ways to
make this book itself free in most of its forms, while still creating ways
for everyone who helped produce it to get paid.
In some ways, this was a public research project, as The Long Tail had
been. I previewed the thesis in an article in Wired and blogged about it
as I had with The Long Tail. But it took a different path, more in my own
head than in a collective conversation with contributors online. This book
is more driven by history and narrative, and it is as much about Free’s
past as it is about its future. My research took me as often to archives and
eighteenth-century psychology texts as it did to the latest Web phenomena.
And so I found myself in more of a traditional writer’s mode, of solitary
studying and typing with earphones on in Starbucks, as God intended.
When I wasn’t writing, I was traveling, talking to people about Free.
I found that the idea that you could create a huge global economy around
a base price of zero was invariably polarizing, but the one common factor
was that nearly everyone had their doubts. At risk of ageist generalization,
there were broadly two camps of skeptics: those over thirty and those
below. The older critics, who had grown up with twentieth-century Free,
were rightly suspicious: Surely “free” is nothing of the sort—we all pay
sooner or later. Not only is it not new, but it’s the oldest marketing gimmick
in the book. When you hear “free,” reach for your wallet.
The younger critics had a different response: “Duh!” This is the Google
Generation, and they’ve grown up online simply assuming that everything
digital is free. They have internalized the subtle market dynamics of
near-zero marginal cost economics in the same way that we internalize

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 5

l

5

Newtonian mechanics when we learn to catch a ball. The fact that we
are now creating a global economy around the price of zero seemed too
self-evident to even note.
With that, I realized that this was a perfect subject for a book. Any
topic that can divide critics equally into two opposite camps—“totally
wrong” and “so obvious”—has got to be a good one. I hope that those
who read this book, even if they start in one of those camps, will end in
neither. Free is not new, but it is changing. And it is doing so in ways
that are forcing us to rethink some of our basic understandings of human
behavior and economic incentives.
Those who understand the new Free will command tomorrow’s markets
and disrupt today’s—indeed, they’re already doing it. This book is about
them and what they’re teaching us. It is about the past and future of a
radical price.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 5

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 7

1
THE BIRTH OF FREE

There’s no getting around it: Gelatin comes from flesh and bones. It’s

the translucent, glutinous substance that skims to the top when you boil
meat. But if you collect enough of it and purify it, adding color and flavor,
it becomes something else: Jell-O. A clean powder in a packet, far removed
from its abattoir origins of marrow and connective tissue.
We don’t think much about the origins of Jell-O today, but in the late
1800s, if you wanted to put a jiggly treat on your dinner table, you had
to make it the hard way: putting off-cuts in a stewpot and waiting a half
day for the hydrolyzed collagen to emerge from the gristle.
In 1895, Pearle Wait, a carpenter in LeRoy, New York, with a side
business of patent medicine packaging, sat at his kitchen table poking at
a bowl of gelatin. He’d been wanting to get into the then-new packaged
foods business and thought this might be the stuff, if only he could figure
out how to make it more appealing. Although glue-makers had been
producing it for decades as a by-product of their animal rendering, it had
yet to prove popular with American consumers. For good reason: It was
a lot of work for a pretty small reward.
Wait wondered if there might be a way to take gelatin more mainstream. Earlier efforts to sell prepackaged powdered gelatin, including by

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

8

13:48

l

Page 8

CHRIS ANDERSON

the inventor of the process, Peter Cooper (of Cooper Union fame), sold
it plain and unflavored on the argument that this was the most flexible
form; cooks could add their own flavors. But Wait thought that preflavored
gelatins might sell better, so he mixed in fruit juices, along with sugar
and food dyes. The jelly took on the color and flavor of the fruits—orange,
lemon, raspberry, and strawberry—creating something that looked,
smelled, and tasted appealing. Colorful, light, and delightful to play with,
it was a treat that could add jiggly, translucent fun to almost any meal.
To distance the stuff further from its abattoir origins, his wife, May, renamed
it Jell-O. They boxed it up to sell.
But it didn’t sell. Jell-O was too foreign a food and too unknown a
brand for turn-of-the-century consumers. Kitchen traditions were still based
on Victorian recipes, where every food type had its place. Was this new
jelly a salad ingredient or a dessert?
For two years, Wait kept trying to stir up interest in Jell-O, with little
success. Eventually, in 1899, he gave up and sold the trademark—name,
hyphen, and all—to Orator Frank Woodward, a fellow townsman. The
price was $450.
Woodward was a natural salesman, and he had settled in the right
place. LeRoy had become something of a nineteenth-century huckster
hotbed, best known for its patent medicine makers. Woodward sold plenty
of miracle cures and was creative with plaster of paris, too. He marketed
plaster target balls for marksmen and invented a plaster laying nest for
chickens that was infused with an anti-lice powder.
But even Woodward’s firm, the Genesee Pure Food Company, struggled
to find a market for powdered gelatin. It was a new product category with
an unknown brand name in an era where general stores sold almost all
products from behind the counter and customers had to ask for them by
name. The Jell-O was manufactured in a nearby factory run by Andrew
Samuel Nico. Sales were so slow and disheartening for the new product that
on one gloomy day, while contemplating a huge stack of unsold Jell-O
boxes, Woodward offered Nico the whole business for $35. Nico refused.
The main problem was that consumers didn’t understand the
product or what they could do with it. And without consumer demand,
merchants wouldn’t stock it. Manufacturers of other products in the new
packaged ingredient business, such as Arm & Hammer baking soda and

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 9

l

9

Fleischmann’s yeast, often bundled recipe books with their boxes.
Woodward figured a usage guidebook might help create demand for
Jell-O, too, but how to get them out there? Nobody was buying the boxes
in the first place.
So in 1902 Woodward and his marketing chief, William E. Humelbaugh,
tried something new. First, they crafted a three-inch ad to run in Ladies’
Home Journal, at a cost of $336. Rather optimistically proclaiming Jell-O
“America’s Most Famous Dessert,” the ad explained the appeal of the
product: This new dessert “could be served with the simple addition of
whipped cream or thin custard. If, however, you desire something very
fancy, there are hundreds of delightful combinations that can be quickly
prepared.”
Then, to illustrate all those richly varied combinations, Genesee printed
up tens of thousands of pamphlets with Jell-O recipes and gave them to
its salesmen to distribute to homemakers for free.
This cleverly got around the salesmen’s chief problem. As they traveled
around the country in their buggies, they were prohibited from selling
door-to-door in most towns without a costly traveling salesman’s license.
But the cookbooks were different—giving things away wasn’t selling. They
could knock on doors and just hand the woman of the house a free recipe
book, no strings attached. Printing paper was cheap compared to making
Jell-O. They couldn’t afford to give out free samples of the product itself,
so they did the next best thing: free information that could only be used
if the consumer bought the product.
After blanketing a town with the booklets, the salesmen would then
go to the local merchants and advise them that they were about to get a
wave of consumers asking for a new product called Jell-O, which they
would be wise to stock. The boxes of Jell-O in the back of the buggies
finally started to move.
By 1904, the campaign had turned into a runaway success. Two years
later Jell-O hit a million dollars in annual sales. The company introduced
the “Jell-O Girl” in its ads, and the pamphlets grew into Jell-O “best- seller”
recipe books. In some years Genesee printed as many as 15 million of the free
books, and in the company’s first twenty-five years it printed and distributed
an estimated quarter billion free cookbooks door-to-door, across the country.
Noted artists such as Norman Rockwell, Linn Ball, and Angus MacDonald

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

10

13:48

l

Page 10

CHRIS ANDERSON

contributed colored illustrations to the cookbooks. Jell-O had become a
fixture in the American kitchen and a household name.
Thus was born one of the most powerful marketing tools of the
twentieth century: giving away one thing to create demand for another.
What Woodward understood was that “free” is a word with an extraordinary
ability to reset consumer psychology, create new markets, break old ones,
and make almost any product more attractive. He also figured out that
“free” didn’t mean profitless. It just meant that the route from product to
revenue was indirect, something that would become enshrined in the
retail playbook as the concept of a “loss leader.”

KING GILLETTE
At the same time, the most famous example of this new marketing method
was in the works a few hundred miles north, in Boston. At the age of
forty, King Gillette was a frustrated inventor, a bitter anticapitalist, and a
salesman of cork-lined bottle caps. Despite ideas, energy, and wealthy
parents, he had little to show for his work. He blamed the evils of market
competition. Indeed, in 1894 he had published a book, The Human Drift,
which argued that all industry should be taken over by a single corporation owned by the public and that millions of Americans should live in
a giant city called Metropolis powered by Niagara Falls. His boss at the
bottle cap company, meanwhile, had just one piece of advice: Invent
something people use and throw away.
One day, while he was shaving with a straight razor that was so worn
it could no longer be sharpened, the idea came to him. What if the
blade could be made of a thin metal strip? Rather than spending time
maintaining the blades, men could simply discard them when they became
dull. A few years of metallurgy experimentation later, the disposable-blade
safety razor was born.
But it didn’t take off immediately. In its first year, 1903, Gillette sold a
total of 51 razors and 168 blades. Over the next two decades, he tried every
marketing gimmick he could think of. He put his own face on the package,
making him both legendary and, some people believed, fictional. He sold
millions of razors to the army at a steep discount, hoping the habits soldiers

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 11

l

11

developed at war would carry over to peacetime. He sold razors in bulk
to banks so they could give them away with new deposits (“shave and save”
campaigns). Razors were bundled with everything from Wrigley’s gum to
packets of coffee, tea, spices, and marshmallows.
The freebies helped to sell those products, but the tactic helped Gillette
even more. By selling cheaply to partners who would give away the razors,
which were useless by themselves, he was creating demand for disposable
blades. It was just like Jell-O (whose cookbooks were the “razors” to the
gelatin “blades”), but even more tightly linked. Once hooked on disposable
razor blades, you were a daily customer for life.
Interestingly, the idea that Gillette, the company, gave away the razors
is mostly urban myth. The only recorded examples were with the introduction of the Trak II in the 1970s, when the company gave away a cheap
version of the razor with a nonreplaceable blade. Its more usual model
was to sell razors at a low margin to partners, such as banks, who would
typically give them away as part of promotions. Gillette made its real profit
from the high margin on the blades.
A few billion blades later, this business model is now the foundation
of entire industries: Give away the cell phone, sell the monthly plan;
make the video game console cheap and sell expensive games; install
fancy coffeemakers in offices at no charge so you can sell managers
expensive coffee sachets.
Starting from these experiments at the beginning of the twentieth
century, Free fueled a consumer revolution that defined the next hundred
years. The rise of Madison Avenue and the arrival of the supermarket
made consumer psychology a science and Free the tool of choice. “Freeto-air” radio and television (the term used for signals sent over the airways
that anyone can receive without charge) united a nation and created the
mass market. Free was the rallying cry of the modern marketer, and
the consumer never failed to respond.

TWENTY-FIRST-CENTURY FREE
Now, at the beginning of the twenty-first century, we’re inventing a new
form of Free, and this one will define the next era just as profoundly. The

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

12

13:48

l

Page 12

CHRIS ANDERSON

new form of Free is not a gimmick, a trick to shift money from one pocket
to another. Instead, it’s driven by an extraordinary new ability to lower the
costs of goods and services close to zero. While the last century’s Free
was a powerful marketing method, this century’s Free is an entirely new
economic model.
This new form of Free is based on the economics of bits, not atoms. It is
a unique quality of the digital age that once something becomes software,
it inevitably becomes free—in cost, certainly, and often in price. (Imagine
if the price of steel had dropped so close to zero that King Gillette could
give away both razor and blade, and make his money on something else
entirely—shaving cream?) And it’s creating a multibillion-dollar economy
—the first in history—where the primary price is zero.
In the atoms economy, which is to say most of the stuff around us,
things tend to get more expensive over time. But in the bits economy,
which is the online world, things get cheaper. The atoms economy is
inflationary, while the bits economy is deflationary.
The twentieth century was primarily an atoms economy. The twentyfirst century will be equally a bits economy. Anything free in the atoms
economy must be paid for by something else, which is why so much traditional free feels like bait and switch—it’s you paying, one way or another.
But free in the bits economy can be really free, with money often taken
out of the equation altogether. People are rightly suspicious of Free in
the atoms economy, and rightly trusting of Free in the bits economy.
Intuitively, they understand the difference between the two economies,
and why Free works so well online.
A decade and a half into the great online experiment, free has become
the default, and pay walls the route to obscurity. In 2007, the New York
Times went free online, as did much of the Wall Street Journal, using
a clever hybrid model that made stories free to those who wanted to
share them online, in blog posts or other social media. Musicians from
Radiohead to Nine Inch Nails now routinely give away their music online,
realizing that Free lets them reach more people and create more fans,
some of whom attend their concerts and even—gasp—pay for premium
versions of the music. The fastest-growing parts of the gaming industry are
ad-supported casual games online and free-to-play massively multiplayer
online games.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 13

l

13

The rise of “freeconomics” is being driven by the underlying
technologies of the digital age. Just as Moore’s Law dictates that a unit
of computer processing power halves in price every two years, the
price of bandwidth and storage is dropping even faster. What the Internet
does is combine all three, compounding the price declines with a triple
play of technology: processors, bandwidth, and storage. As a result, the
net annual deflation rate of the online world is nearly 50 percent, which
is to say that whatever it costs YouTube to stream a video today will cost
half as much in a year. The trend lines that determine the cost of doing
business online all point the same way: to zero. No wonder the prices
online all go the same way.
George Gilder, whose 1990 book, Microcosm, was the first to explore
the economics of bits, puts this in historical context:
In every industrial revolution, some key factor of production is drastically
reduced in cost. Relative to the previous cost to achieve that function, the
new factor is virtually free. [Thanks to steam,] physical force in the Industrial
Revolution became virtually free compared to getting it from animal muscle
power or human muscle power. Suddenly you could do things you could
not afford to do before. You could make a factory work 24 hours a day
churning out products in a way that was just incomprehensible before.

Today the most interesting business models are in finding ways to make
money around Free. Sooner or later every company is going to have to
figure out how to use Free or compete with Free, one way or another.
This book is about how to do that.
First, we’ll look at the history of Free and why it has such power over
our choices. Then we’ll see how digital economics has revolutionized
Free, turning it from a marketing gimmick into an economic force,
including the new business models it enables. Finally, we’ll dive into the
underlying principles of freeconomics: how it works, where it works, and
why it’s so often misunderstood and feared. But to start, what does “free”
really mean?

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 14

WHAT IS FREE?

2
FREE 101
A SHORT COURSE ON A MOST
MISUNDERSTOOD WORD

“Free” can mean many things, and that meaning has changed over the
years. It raises suspicions, yet has the power to grab attention like almost
nothing else. It is almost never as simple as it seems, yet it is the most
natural transaction of all. If we are now building an economy around
Free, we should start by understanding what it is and how it works.
Let’s begin with the definition. In Latinate languages, such as French,
Spanish, and Italian, “free” is less convoluted because it is not a single
word. Instead, it is two words, one derived from the Latin liber (“freedom”)
and the other from the Latin gratis (contraction of gratiis, “for thanks,”
hence, “without recompense,” or zero price). In Spanish, for instance,
libre is a good thing (freedom of speech, etc.) while gratis is often suspected
of being a marketing gimmick.
In English, though, the two words are mushed together into a single
word. This has marketing advantages: the positive “freedom” connotation
lowers our defenses to sales tricks. But it also introduces ambiguity.
(Which is why English speakers sometimes use “gratis” for emphasis, to
underscore that something is really free.)
In the open source software world, which is both free (encouraging
use and reuse) and free (no charge), people distinguish between the two

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 15

l

15

like this: “Free as in beer vs. free as in speech.” (Inevitably, some overclever types thought it would be funny to reambiguate this by releasing
a beer recipe under a share-and-share-alike license and then charging for
the finished product at software conferences. Geeks!)
So how did we end up with a single word, and why is that word “free”?
Surprisingly, it comes from the same Old English root as “friend.”
According to etymologist Douglas Harper:
[They both come] from the Old English freon, freogan “to free, love.” The
primary sense seems to have been “beloved, friend”; which in some languages
(notably Gmc. and Celtic) developed a sense of “free,” perhaps from the
terms “beloved” or “friend” being applied to the free members of one’s clan
(as opposed to slaves).
The sense of “given without cost” is from 1585, from the notion of “free
of cost.”

So “free” comes from the social notion of freedom, both from slavery and
from cost.
This book is about the “cost” meaning: free, as in beer. Or, for that
matter, lunch.
A MILLION KINDS OF FREE
Even within the commercial use of “free” there is a wide range of
meanings—and business models. Sometimes “free” isn’t really free. “Buy
one, get one free” is just another way of saying 50 percent off when you
buy two. “Free gift inside” really means that the cost of the gift has been
included in the overall product. “Free shipping” typically means the price
of shipping has been built into the product’s markup.
Of course, sometimes free really is free, but this is hardly a new economic
model: A “free sample” is simple marketing, intended to both introduce a
product and trigger a slight feeling of moral debt that may encourage you to
buy the full-price item. A “free trial” may be free, but only for a limited time,
and it may be difficult to opt out before it becomes paid. And “free air” at
a gas station is what economists call a “complementary good”—a free product
(DIY tire inflation) intended to reinforce consumer interest in a paid product
(everything else at the gas station, from a pack of gum to the fuel).

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

16

13:48

l

Page 16

CHRIS ANDERSON

Then there is the whole world of ad-supported media, from free-to-air
radio and TV to most of the Web. Ad-supported free content is a business
model that dates back more than a century: a third party (the advertisers)
pays for a second party (the consumer) to get the content for free.
Finally, sometimes free really is free and does represent a new model.
Most of this is online, where digital economics, with near-zero marginal
costs, hold sway. Flickr, the photo-sharing service, is actually free for most
of its users (it doesn’t even use advertising). Likewise most of what Google
offers either is free and without advertising or applies the media ad model
in a new way to software and services (like Gmail), not content. Then there
is the amazing “gift economy” of Wikipedia and the blogosphere, driven by
the nonmonetary incentives of reputation, attention, expression, and the like.
All these can be sorted into four broad kinds of Free, two that are old
but evolving and two that are emerging with the digital economy. Before
we get to those, let’s pull back and observe that all forms of Free boil down
to variations of the same thing: shifting money around from product to
product, person to person, between now and later, or into nonmonetary
markets and back out again. Economists call these “cross-subsidies.”

ALL THE WORLD’S A CROSS-SUBSIDY
Cross-subsidies are the essence of the phrase “there’s no such thing as a
free lunch.” That means that one way or another the food must be paid
for, if not by you directly then by someone else in whose interest it is to
give you free food.
Sometimes people are paying indirectly for products. That free newspaper you’re reading is supported by advertising, which is part of a retailer’s
marketing budget, which is built into its profit margin, which you (or
someone around you) will ultimately pay for in the form of more expensive goods. You’re also paying with a bit of your time and, by being seen
reading that newspaper, your reputation. The free parking in the supermarket is paid for by the markup on the produce, and the free samples
are subsidized by those who shell out for the paid versions.
In the gift economy (see page 20), the cross-subsidies are more subtle.
Blogs are free and usually don’t have ads, but that doesn’t mean that value

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 17

l

17

isn’t being exchanged every time you visit. In return for the free content,
the attention you give a blogger, whether in a visit or a link, enhances her
reputation. She can use reputation to get a better job, enhance her network,
or find more customers. Sometimes those reputation credits can turn into
cash, but we can rarely predict the exact path—it’s different each time.
Cross-subsidies can work in several different ways:
• Paid products subsidizing free products. Loss leaders are a staple
of business, from the popcorn that subsidizes the loss-making movie
to the expensive wine subsidizing the cheap meal in a restaurant.
Free just takes that further, with one item being not just sold at a
fraction of its cost but given away entirely. This can be as gimmicky
as a “free gift inside” or as common as free samples. This form of
Free is ancient, familiar, and relatively straightforward as an economic
model, so we won’t focus on it much here.
• Paying later subsidizing free now. The free cell phone with a
two-year-subscription contract is a classic example of the subsidy
over time. It’s just shifting phone service from a point-of-sale revenue
stream to an ongoing annuity. In this case, your future self is
subsidizing your present self. The hope of the carrier is that you
won’t think about what you’ll be paying each year for the phone
service but instead will be dazzled by the free phone you get today.
• Paying people subsidizing free people. From the men who pay to
get into nightclubs where the women get in free, to “kids get in
free,” to progressive taxation where the wealthy pay more so the less
wealthy pay less (and sometimes nothing), the tactic of segmenting
a market into groups based on their willingness or ability to pay is
a conventional part of pricing theory. Free takes that to the extreme,
extending the concept to a class of consumers who will get the
product or service for nothing. The hope is that the free consumers
will attract (in the case of the women) or bring with them (in the
case of the kids) paying consumers or that some fraction of the free
consumers will convert to paying consumers. When you walk through
the striking interiors of Las Vegas attractions, you get the view for
free; in exchange the owners are expecting some people to stop and
gamble or shop (or, ideally, both).

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

18

13:48

l

Page 18

CHRIS ANDERSON

Within the broad world of cross-subsidies, Free models tend to fall into
four main categories:

FREE 1: DIRECT CROSS-SUBSIDIES
WHAT’S FREE: Any Product That Entices You to Pay for Something
Else.
FREE TO WHOM: Everyone Willing to Pay Eventually, One Way or
Another.
When Wal-Mart offers a buy-one-get-one-free deal on DVDs, it’s a loss
leader. The company is offering the DVD below cost to lure you into the
store, where it hopes to sell you a washing machine or a shopping basket
filled with other goods at a profit. In any package of products and services, from banking to mobile calling plans, the price of each individual
component is often determined by psychology, not cost. Your cell phone
company may not make money on your monthly minutes—it keeps that
fee low because it knows that’s the first thing you look at when picking
a carrier—but your monthly voice mail fee is pure profit. Companies look
at a portfolio of products and price some at zero (or close to it) to make
the other products, on which they make healthy profits, more attractive.
This is the extension, to more and more industries, of King Gillette’s
cross-subsidy. Technology is giving companies greater flexibility in how
broadly they can define their markets, allowing them more freedom to
give away some of their products or services to promote others. Ryanair,
for instance, has disrupted its industry by defining itself more as a fullservice travel agency than a seller of airline seats. Your credit card is
free because the bank makes its money from the service charge it imposes
on the retailers you buy from. They, in turn, pass that charge back to
you. (Of course, if you don’t pay your bill off in full at the end of the
month, the bank makes even more money from your interest.)

FREE 2: THE THREE-PARTY MARKET
WHAT’S FREE: Content, Services, Software, and More.
FREE TO WHOM: Everyone.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 19

l

19

The most common of the economies built around Free is the three-party
system. Here a third party pays to participate in a market created by a free
exchange between the first two parties. Sound complicated? You encounter
it every day. It’s the basis of virtually all media.
In the traditional media model, a publisher provides a product free (or
nearly free) to consumers, and advertisers pay to ride along. Again, radio
is “free to air,” and so is much of television. Likewise, newspaper and
magazine publishers don’t charge readers anything close to the actual cost
of creating, printing, and distributing their products. They’re not selling
papers and magazines to readers, they’re selling readers to advertisers. It’s
a three-way market.
In a sense, the Web represents the extension of the media business
model to industries of all sorts. This is not simply the notion that advertising
will pay for everything. Media companies make money around free content
in dozens of ways, from selling information about consumers to brand
licensing, “value-added” subscriptions, and direct e commerce (see Chapter
9 and the back of the book for a more complete list). Now an entire
ecosystem of Web companies is growing up around the same set of models.
Economists call such models “two-sided markets,” because there are
two distinct user groups who synergistically support each other: Advertisers pay for media to reach consumers, who in turn support advertisers.
Consumers ultimately pay, but only indirectly through the higher prices
on products due to their marketing costs. This also applies to nonmedia
markets, such as credit cards (free cards to consumers means more spending
at merchants and more fees for issuing banks), operating system tools
given free to application software developers to attract more consumers
to the platform, and so on. In each case, the costs are distributed and/or
hidden enough to make the primary goods feel free to consumers.

FREE 3: FREEMIUM
WHAT’S FREE: Anything That’s Matched with a Premium Paid Version.
FREE TO WHOM: Basic Users.
This term, coined by venture capitalist Fred Wilson, is one of the most
common Web business models. Freemium can take different forms: varying

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

20

13:48

l

Page 20

CHRIS ANDERSON

tiers of content from free to expensive, or a premium “pro” version of
some site or software with more features than the free version (think Flickr
and the $25-a year Flickr Pro).
Again, this sounds familiar. Isn’t it just the free sample model found
everywhere from perfume counters to street corners? Yes, but with a pretty
significant twist. The traditional free sample is the promotional candy bar
handout or the diapers mailed to a new mother. Since these samples have
real costs, the manufacturer gives away only a tiny quantity—hoping to hook
consumers and stimulate demand for many more.
But for digital products, this ratio of free to paid is reversed. A typical
online site follows the 5 Percent Rule—5 percent of users support all the
rest. In the freemium model, that means for every user who pays for the
premium version of the site, nineteen others get the basic free version.
The reason this works is that the cost of serving the nineteen is close
enough to zero to call it nothing.

FREE 4: NONMONETARY MARKETS
WHAT’S FREE: Anything People Choose to Give Away with No
Expectation of Payment.
FREE TO WHOM: Everyone.
This can take several forms:
Gift Economy
From the twelve million articles on Wikipedia to the millions of free
secondhand goods offered on Freecycle, we are discovering that money
isn’t the only motivator. Altruism has always existed, but the Web gives it
a platform where the actions of individuals can have global impact. In a
sense, zero-cost distribution has turned sharing into an industry. From the
point of view of the monetary economy it all looks free—indeed, it looks
like unfair competition—but that says more about our shortsighted ways
of measuring value than it does about the worth of what’s created.
The incentives to share can range from reputation and attention to
less measurable factors such as expression, fun, good karma, satisfaction,
and simply self-interest (giving things away via Freecycle or Craigslist to

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 21

l

21

save yourself the trouble of taking them to the dump). Sometimes the
giving is unintentional, or passive. You give information to Google when
you have a public Web site, whether you intend to or not, and you give
aluminum cans to the homeless guy who collects them from the recycling
bin, even if that’s not what you meant to do.
Labor Exchange
You can get access to free porn if you solve a few Captchas, those
scrambled text boxes used to block spam bots. Ironically, what you’re
actually doing is using your human pattern-matching skills to decipher
text that originated on some other site, one of interest to spammers that
uses such Captchas to keep them out. Once you solve it, the spammers
can gain access to those sites, which are worth more to them than the
bandwidth you’ll consume viewing titillating images. As far as they’re
concerned, it’s a black box—they put scrambled Captchas in and they get
deciphered text out. But inside the box, it’s the unwitting free labor of
thousands of people. Likewise for rating stories on Digg, voting on Yahoo
Answers, or using Google’s 411 service. Every time you search on
Google, you’re helping the company improve its ad-targeting algorithms.
In each case, the act of using the service creates something of value, either
improving the service itself or creating information that can be useful
somewhere else. Whether you know it or not, you’re paying with your
labor for something free.
Piracy
This describes nothing so well as online music. Between digital reproduction and peer-to-peer distribution, the real cost of distributing music
has truly hit bottom. This is a case where the product has become free
because of sheer economic gravity, with or without a business model.
That force is so powerful that laws, copy protection, guilt trips, and every
other barrier to piracy the labels could think of failed (and continues to
do so). Some artists give away their music online as a way of marketing
concerts, merchandise, licensing, and other paid fare. But others have
simply accepted that, for them, music is not a moneymaking business.
It’s something they do for other reasons, from fun to creative expression.
Which, of course, has always been true for most musicians anyway.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

22

13:48

l

Page 22

CHRIS ANDERSON

A TEST OF FREE IN DAILY LIFE
Let’s see how this taxonomy lines up with the sort of Free we encounter
every day. Browsing a newsstand recently, I noticed a cover line on Real
Simple magazine: “36 Surprising Things You Can Get for Free.” It’s the
sort of thing you’ll see on any newsstand in any month, so it seemed a
fairly representative sample with which to test the framework.
Some of the examples had elements of several models, and others
had competitors that use models that fit into different categories.
(1-800-FREE411’s competitor, Google 411, isn’t ad-supported.) Also,
government services are a special class of cross-subsidy, since the
link between your taxes and the services you receive is indirect and diffuse.
But the point holds: This sort of taxonomy works quite well. No category
system is perfect, and it’s not hard to find exceptions and hybrids, but this
framework will serve us well in the chapters to come.

THE THREE PRICES
This book is mostly about two prices—something and nothing—but there
is sometimes a third price that we can’t ignore: less than nothing. That’s
right, a negative price: You get paid to use a product or service, rather
than the other way around.
This is more common than you might think. Online, you can see this
trend in things like Microsoft paying you to use their search, but it
actually has a long tradition in conventional marketing. You find it in
instant rebates and cash-back marketing, and in the cash rewards, frequent
flyer miles, and other payments you get for using credit or loyalty cards.
Of course, few of these are really less than nothing; in most cases your
wallet will open sooner or later. But what’s interesting about these schemes
is that although they’re not really free money, consumers often treat them
like they are.
For instance, a cash-back rebate invokes a very different psychology
from simply saving the money in the first place. Studies of how people
spend the $1,000 (or whatever amount) check they get when they buy a

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 23

l

23

new truck (or, more to the point, finance it) show that they tend to spend
it like a lottery winning—an unexpected windfall, even though it’s really
just a loan against future payments. Guys buy golf clubs their wives would
never normally let them purchase, and their wives don’t stand in their
way, despite the fact that they know they’ll be paying that money back
over the years to come, just like a credit card debt.
In Dan Ariely’s book Predictably Irrational there’s a great example of
negative pricing. In one instance, he told his class at MIT’s Sloan School
of Business that he would be doing a reading of poetry (Walt Whitman’s
Leaves of Grass) but didn’t know what it should cost. He handed out a
questionnaire to all the students, half of whom were asked if they’d be
willing to pay $10 to hear him read, and the other half of whom were
asked if they’d be willing to hear him read if he paid them $10. Then he
gave them all the same question: What should the price be to hear him
read short, medium, and long versions of the poem?
The initial question is what behavioral economists call an “anchor,”
which calibrates a consumer’s sense of what a fair price is. It can have a
dramatic effect on what they’ll ultimately pay. In this case, the students
who had been asked if they would pay $10 were willing to pay, on average,
$1 for the short poem, $2 for the medium, and $3 for the long.
Meanwhile, the students who had been anchored to believe that Ariely
should pay them did indeed demand that: They wanted $1.30 to listen
to the short reading, $2.70 for the medium one, and $4.80 to endure the
long reading.
Ariely notes that Mark Twain illustrated this with Tom Sawyer, who
somehow got the other boys to be so envious of the fence-painting exercise
that they not only took over his job but paid him for the privilege. However,
there is a cautionary tale in this for those who would pay people for what
they would otherwise expect to be paid themselves for. Twain observed:
“There are wealthy gentlemen in England who drive four-horse passengercoaches twenty or thirty miles on a daily line in the summer because the
privilege costs them considerable money; but if they were offered a wage
for the service, that would turn it into work and they would resign.”
All these are examples of what Derek Sivers, the founder of CD Baby,
calls “reversible business models.” A real-world instance of this is the music
clubs in Los Angeles that are charging bands to play in the club, rather

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

24

13:48

l

Page 24

CHRIS ANDERSON

than paying them as usual. The bands value the exposure more than the
cash, and if they’re good they can graduate to the usual sort of gigs.
In China, some doctors are paid monthly when their patients are healthy.
If you are sick, it’s their fault, so you don’t have to pay that month. It’s their
goal to get you healthy and keep you healthy so they can get paid.
In Denmark, a gym offers a membership program where you pay
nothing as long as you show up at least once a week. But miss a week
and you have to pay full price for the month. The psychology is brilliant.
When you go every week, you feel great about yourself and the gym. But
eventually you’ll get busy and miss a week. You’ll pay, but you’ll blame
yourself alone. Unlike the usual situation where you pay for a gym you’re
not going to, your instinct is not to cancel your membership; instead it’s
to redouble your commitment.
FreeConferenceCall.com gets income from the phone companies
instead of customers, because they know which phone company each
person is using to call them. They negotiated an affiliate payment for
generating more long-distance calls for each phone company. Rather
than paying for the long-distance fees themselves, FreeConferenceCall
charges the phone companies for encouraging users to make more
long-distance calls.
Finally, Jicka.com, a company hoping to go up against Craigslist in free
classifieds, decided to compete with Free by going one better: giving buyers
trial warranties. If you place an ad to sell your house on Jicka, you’ll get
a six-month limited home warranty to give the buyer. Sell your car through
a Jicka ad and the buyer will get a thirty-day limited warranty. Place any
ad on Jicka and get one year of identity theft protection. This scheme
doesn’t cost Jicka anything. The companies that offer the warranties consider
it a good marketing opportunity, and they’ll make money when some of
the Jicka free-trial customers decide to renew the warranties for a fee.
In each case, a clever company has reversed the normal flow of money,
either making something free or paying for what other companies are
charging for. There’s nothing particularly high-tech about any of these
ideas. They just took some entrepreneur thinking creatively about price.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 25

3
THE HISTORY OF FREE
ZERO, LUNCH, AND THE
ENEMIES OF CAPITALISM

THE PROBLEM OF NOTHING
One of the reasons that Free is often so hard to grasp is that it is not a

thing, but rather the absence of a thing. It is the hole where the price
should be, the void at the till. We tend to think in terms of the concrete
and tangible, yet Free is a concept, not something you can count on your
fingers. It took thousands of years of civilization to even find a number
to describe it.
The quantification of nothingness started, as so many things do, with
the Babylonians. Around 3000 b.c., in the Fertile Crescent of present-day
Iraq, a thriving agricultural society had a counting problem. It was not the
obvious bug that you or I might have spotted, which is that their system
was sexagesimal, or based on powers of sixties instead of tens. As awkward
as that is, as long as you don’t expect to count with your fingers and toes,
it’s easy enough to figure out (it is, after all, the root of our own time system).
No, the problem was something else: how to write down numbers.
Unlike most other cultures of that era, the Babylonians didn’t have a
different symbol for every number within their base set. Instead, they used
just two marks: a wedge that represented 1 and a double wedge that

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

26

13:48

l

Page 26

CHRIS ANDERSON

represented 10. So, depending on where it was placed, a single wedge
could represent 1; 60; 3,600; or an even greater multiple of sixty. It was,
writes Charles Seife in Zero: The Biography of a Dangerous Idea, “the
Bronze Age equivalent of computer code.”
This made perfect sense in a culture that counted with an abacus.
Adding numbers with that clever device is simply a matter of moving stones
up and down, with stones in different columns representing different
values. If you have abacuses with sixty stones in each column, a numbering
system based on powers of sixty is no harder than one based on tens.
But when you want to mark a number on an abacus, what do you do
if there are no stones in a column? The number 60 is one wedge in the
sixties column and no wedges in the ones column. How do you write “no
wedges”? The Babylonians needed a placeholder that represented nothing.
They had to, in effect, invent zero. And so they created a new character,
with no value, to signify an empty column. They denoted it with two
slanted wedges.
Given the obvious need for such a placeholder when you’re writing
down numbers based on powers of any base, you might think that zero
had been with us since the dawn of written history. But plenty of advanced
civilizations managed to come and go with no need for it. The Romans
had no use for it in Roman numerals. (There are no fixed columns in
that notation. Instead, the value of any digit is determined by the other
digits around it.)
The Greeks, meanwhile, explicitly rejected zero. Since their mathematical system was based on geometry, numbers had to represent space
of one sort or another—length, angles, area, etc. Zero space didn’t make
sense. Greek math was epitomized by Pythagoras and his Pythagorean
cult, which made such profound discoveries as the musical scale and the
golden ratio (but not, ironically, the Pythagorean Theorem—the formula
for calculating the hypotenuse of a right triangle had actually been known
for many years before Pythagoras). Although they understood that arithmetic sometimes produces negative numbers, irrational numbers, and
even zero, the Greeks rejected all of them because they could not be
represented in physical shapes. (Awkwardly, the golden ratio is itself an
irrational number, which was kept secret as long as possible.)
Such myopia is understandable. Where numbers only represent real

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 27

l

27

things, you don’t need a number to express the absence of something. It
is an abstract concept and only shows up when the math gets equally
abstract. “The point about zero is that we do not need to use it in the
operations of daily life,” wrote Alfred North Whitehead, the British
mathematician, in 1911. “No one goes out to buy zero fish. It is in a way
the most civilized of all the cardinal [numbers], and its use is only forced
on us by the needs of cultivated modes of thought.”
That fell to the mathematicians of India. Unlike the Greeks, the Indians
did not see shapes in all numbers. Instead the Indians saw numbers as
concepts. Eastern mysticism embraced both the tangible and the intangible,
through the yin and yang of duality. The god Shiva was both the creator
and the destroyer of worlds; indeed, one aspect of the deity Nishkala Shiva
was the Shiva “without parts”—the void. Through their ability to divorce
numerals from physical reality, the Indians invented algebra. That, in
turn, allowed them to extend mathematics to its logical ends, including
negative numbers and, by the ninth century, zero. Indeed, the very word
“zero” has Indian origins: The Indian word for zero was sunya, meaning
“empty,” which the Arabs turned into sifr. Western scholars Latinized this
into zephirus, the root of our zero.

THE PROBLEM OF FREE
By A.D. 900 there was both a symbol and an algebraic framework for
nothing. But what about an economic system? Well, in a sense that had
been there all along. The word “economics” comes from the Ancient
Greek oikos (“house”) and nomos (“custom” or “law”), therefore “rules of
the house(hold).” And in the home, Free has always been the rule. Even
after most cultures established monetary economies, day-to-day transactions
within close-knit social groups, from families to tribes, was still mostly
without price. The currencies of generosity, trust, goodwill, reputation,
and equitable exchange still dominate the goods and services of the family,
the neighborhood, and even within the workplace. In general, no cash is
required among friends.
But for transactions between strangers, where social bonds are not the
primary scoring system, money provided a common agreed-upon metric

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

28

13:48

l

Page 28

CHRIS ANDERSON

of value, and barter gave way to payment. But even then there was a place
for Free, in everything from patronage to civil services.
As the nation-state emerged in the seventeenth century, so did the
notion of progressive taxation, by which the rich gave more so the poor
could pay less and receive services for free. This establishment of government institutions to serve the people created a special kind of Free: You
may not pay for government services yourself, but society at large does,
and you may never know exactly which of your own tax dollars come
back to you directly.
Charity, of course, is also a form of Free, as is communal giving, such
as barn raisings and potlatches, Native American gift festivals. The
emergence of the five-day workweek, labor laws that established minimum
and maximum work ages, and the shift from field labor to industrial and
then white-collar work created free time. That, in turn, created a boom
in volunteerism (free labor) that continues today.
Even as monetary economies became the norm, the importance of
not charging for some things was still deeply held. Perhaps the best
example is interest on a loan, which has historically been seen as a bit
of an exploitation, especially when it comes to the poor. Today, “usury”
means excessive interest, but it originally meant any interest whatsoever.
(An interest-free loan is now seen as a form of gift.)
The early Catholic Church took a strong stand against charging for loans.
In 1179, the Third Council of the Lateran decreed that persons who accepted
interest on loans could receive neither the sacraments nor Christian burial.
Pope Clement V made the belief in the right to usury heresy in 1311 and
abolished all secular legislation that allowed it. Pope Sixtus V condemned
the practice of charging interest as “detestable to God and man, damned
by the sacred canons and contrary to Christian charity.”
Not all societies saw interest as evil. The historian Paul Johnson notes:
Most early religious systems in the ancient Near East, and the secular codes
arising from them, did not forbid usury. These societies regarded inanimate
matter as alive, like plants, animals and people, and capable of reproducing
itself. Hence if you lent “food money,” or monetary tokens of any kind, it
was legitimate to charge interest. Food money in the shape of olives, dates,
seeds or animals was lent out as early as c. 5000 b.c., if not earlier.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 29

l

29

But when it comes to making a profit on hard cash, many societies
have taken a hard stand. Some interpretations of Islamic law ban interest
entirely, and the Koran minces no words on the subject:
Those who charge usury are in the same position as those controlled by
the devil’s influence. This is because they claim that usury is the same as
commerce. However, God permits commerce, and prohibits usury. Thus,
whoever heeds this commandment from his Lord, and refrains from usury,
he may keep his past earnings, and his judgment rests with God. As for
those who persist in usury, they incur Hell, wherein they abide forever.

Eventually economic pragmatism made interest acceptable (and the
Church came around, in part to appease the merchant classes to gain
political support). In the sixteenth century, short-term interest rates dropped
dramatically (from 20 to 30 percent annually to 9 to 10 percent), thanks
to more efficient banking systems and commercial techniques, along with
more money in circulation. The lower rates weakened most religious
scruples about lending with interest, although Islamic law continued to
frown on it.

CAPITALISM AND ITS ENEMIES
After the seventeenth century, the role of the market and the mercantile
class became fully accepted pretty much everywhere. Money supplies
were regulated, currencies were protected, and economies as we now
know them flourished. More and more trade happened between strangers
thanks to the principles of comparative advantage and specialization.
(People made what they could make best and traded for other goods with
people who could make them better.) Currencies became more important as the units of value because their worth came from trust in the
overarching issuing authority (usually the state), rather than either of
the parties in the transaction. The notion that “everything has its price”
is just a few centuries old.
Thanks to Adam Smith, commerce became not just a place to shop
but a way of thinking about all human activity. The social science of
economics was born as a way to study why people make the choices they

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

30

13:48

l

Page 30

CHRIS ANDERSON

do. Just as in Darwin’s description of nature, competition was at the heart
of this emerging science of commerce. Money was how we kept score.
Charging for things was simply the most efficient way to ensure that they
would continue to be produced—the profit motive is as strong in economics
as the “selfish gene” is in nature.
But amid the market triumphalism, there remained pockets of people
who resisted money as the mediator of all exchange. Karl Marx advocated
collective ownership and allocation according to need, not ability to pay.
And the anarchist thinkers of the nineteenth century, such as the Russian
prince-turned-radical Peter Kropotkin, imagined collectivist utopias
where members would spontaneously perform all necessary labor because
they would recognize the benefits of communal enterprise and mutual
aid. Kropotkin believed that private property was one of the causes of
oppression and exploitation and called for its abolition, advocating instead
common ownership.
Spelling this out in his 1902 book, Mutual Aid: A Factor of Evolution,
Kropotkin, in a way, anticipated some of the social forces that dominate
the “link economy” of the Internet today (people linking to one another
in their posts, bringing traffic and reputation to the recipient). In giving
something away, he argued, the trade-off is not money, but satisfaction.
This satisfaction was rooted in community, mutual aid, and support. The
self-reinforcing qualities of that aid would, in turn, prompt others to give
equally to you. “Primitive societies” worked that way, he argued, so such
gift economies were closer to the natural state of human affairs than
market capitalism.
But every effort to make this work in practice at any scale failed,
largely because the social bonds that police such mutual aid tend to fray
when the size of the group exceeds 150 (termed the “Dunbar number”
—the empirically observed limit at which the members of a human
community can maintain strong links with one another). Of course, this
pretty much doomed collectivism for any group as large as a country. It
would take the arrival of virtual worlds for us to finally see larger economies
built on mutual benefit actually work. Online societies from the Web to
online multiplayer games can allow us to maintain social networks that
are much larger than those we maintain in the physical world. Software
extends our reach and keeps score.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 31

l

31

THE FIRST FREE LUNCH
By the end of the nineteenth century, it appeared that the ideological
battles were largely over. Market economies were firmly established
throughout the West. Far from the root of all evil, money was proving to
be a catalyst of growth and the key to prosperity. The value of anything
was best determined by the price people would pay for it—it was as simple
as that. Utopian dreams of alternative systems based on gifts, barter, or
social obligation were reserved for fringe experiments, from communes
to Israel’s kibbutzim. In the world of commerce, “free” took on its primary
modern meaning: a marketing tool. And as such, it quickly became
regarded with mistrust.
By the time King Gillette and Pearle Wait made their fortunes from
Free, consumers were used to hearing “there’s no such thing as a free
lunch.” The phrase refers to a tradition once common in U.S. saloons,
which began offering “free” food to any customer who purchased at least
one drink. Ranging from a sandwich to a multicourse meal, these free
lunches were typically worth far more than the price of a single drink.
However, the saloon-keepers were betting that most customers would buy
more than one drink, and that the allure of free food would attract patrons
during a less busy time of day.
In 1872, the New York Times reported that free lunches had emerged
as a “peculiar” trend common in the Crescent City (New Orleans), where
a free meal could be found in every saloon, every day. The spread included
vast dishes of butter, large baskets of bread, huge vessels filled with
potatoes, stewed mutton, stewed tomatoes, macaroni à la Français, and
“a round of beef that must have weighed forty pounds.”
According to the report, the free-lunch custom was feeding thousands
of men who were subsisting “entirely on meals this way.” The Times article
continued:
A free-lunch counter is a great leveler of classes, and when a man takes a
position before one of them he must give up all hope of appearing dignified. . . . All classes of the people can be seen partaking of these free meals
and pushing and scrambling to be helped a second time.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

32

13:48

l

Page 32

CHRIS ANDERSON

In fact, the nearly indigent “free-lunch fiend” actually became a
recognized social type. Another New York Times story from 1872 cites
free-lunch loafers who “toil not, yet they get along,” visiting saloons to try
to bum drinks from strangers. “Should this inexplicable lunch-fiend not
be called to drink, he devours whatever he can, and while the bartender
is occupied, attempts to escape unnoticed.”
In San Francisco the custom arrived with the Gold Rush and stayed
for years. An 1886 Times article on the fading of the days of the fortyniners in San Francisco calls the free-lunch fiend the “only landmark of
the past.” The story begins “How do all these idle people live?” and then
assigns responsibility. “Take away that peculiarly California institution,”
the piece concludes, “and they would starve.”
Elsewhere, the free lunch ran afoul of the temperance movement. An
1874 history of the battle to ban alcohol suggests that the free lunch—
along with women and song—was nothing but a way to disguise a wellfilled bar. The alcohol was the “centre about which all these other things
are made to revolve.”
Others argued that the free lunch actually performed a social-relief
function. Reformer William T. Stead commented that in the winter of
1894 the free-lunch saloons “fed more hungry people in Chicago than
all the other agencies, religious, charitable, and municipal, put together.”
Stead cites a newspaper’s estimate that the saloon-keepers fed sixty
thousand people a day. And, he noted, those three thousand saloons did
so without pretending to be charitable.
Two years later, in 1896, the New York State Legislature passed the
Raines Law, which was intended to regulate liquor traffic. Among its many
provisions, one forbade the sale of liquor unless the purchase was accompanied by food. Another outlawed the free lunch altogether. That provision
was short-lived, though. The following year, the Raines Law was amended
to permit free lunches. The custom continued for decades more.

SAMPLES, GIFTS, AND TASTERS
At the beginning of the twentieth century, Free re-emerged along with
the new packaged goods industry. With the rise of brands, advertising,

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 33

l

33

and national distribution, Free became a sales gimmick. There’s nothing
new about free samples, but the mass marketing of them is credited to a
nineteenth-century marketing genius named Benjamin Babbitt.
Among Babbitt’s many inventions were several methods for making
soap. But where he really shined was in his innovative selling, which
rivaled even that of his friend P. T. Barnum. Babbitt’s Soap became
nationally famous due to his advertising and promotional campaigns,
which included the first widespread distribution of free samples. “A fair
trial is all I ask for,” his advertisements proclaimed, showing gentlemen
salesmen giving away samplers.
The soap was sold from brightly painted streetcars with musicians,
which led to the phrase “get on the bandwagon.” In 1922, Sinclair Lewis
used the Babbitt name as the title character of his best seller, Babbitt,
about a vulgar and ignorant businessman.
Another pioneering example is Wall Drug in South Dakota. In 1931,
Ted Hustead, a Nebraska native and pharmacist, was looking to establish
his business in a small town with a Catholic church. He found exactly
what he wanted with Wall Drug. It was located in a 231-person town in
what he referred to as “the middle of nowhere.” Understandably, the store
struggled. But in 1933, Mount Rushmore opened sixty miles to the west,
and Hustead’s wife, Dorothy, got the idea to advertise free ice water to
parched travelers heading to see the monument. The tactic put Wall Drug
on the map, and business boomed.
Today Wall Drug is an enormous cowboy-themed shopping mall/
department store. It now offers free bumper stickers and free promotional
signs, along with 5-cent coffee. Ice water, of course, is still free.
FREE AS A WEAPON
One of the first hints of the twenty-first-century power of Free came at
the dawn of the transformative medium of the twentieth century—radio.
Today, we know that the most disruptive way to enter a market is to
vaporize the economics of existing business models. Charge nothing for
a product that the incumbents depend on for their profits. The world will
beat a path to your door and you can then sell them something else. Just
look at free long-distance calling with mobile phones, which decimated

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

34

13:48

l

Page 34

CHRIS ANDERSON

the fixed line long-distance business, or think of what free classifieds do
to newspapers.
Seventy years ago, a similar battle played out over recorded music. In
the late 1930s, radio was emerging as a popular entertainment format,
but also one that made a mess of the old ways of paying musicians. Most
radio music broadcasts of the time were live, and the musicians and
composers were paid for a single performance. But to the artists, payment
for a single performance alone didn’t seem fair when that one performance was being received by millions of listeners. Had those millions
been packed into one concert hall, the musicians’ share of the receipts
would have been much larger.
Broadcasters argued that it was impossible to pay licensing fees
based on how many listeners tuned in, because no one knew what that
number was. But ASCAP, with its near-monopoly on the most popular
artists, made the rules: It insisted on royalties of 3 to 5 percent of a
station’s gross advertising revenues in exchange for the right to play
music. Worse, it threatened to raise that rate when the contract expired
in 1940.
As the broadcasters and ASCAP were negotiating, radio stations started
taking matters into their own hands, and cut the live performances out
entirely. Recording technology was improving, and more and more stations
began playing records, which were introduced by a studio announcer known
as a disk jockey. The music labels responded by selling records stamped
with “NOT LICENSED FOR RADIO BROADCAST,” but in 1940 the
Supreme Court ruled that radio stations, having purchased a record, could
play it. So ASCAP convinced its most prominent members, such as Bing
Crosby, to simply halt making new recordings.
Faced with a shrinking pool of music to play and a potentially ruinous
royalty requirement, the broadcasters struck back by organizing their own
royalty agency, Broadcast Music Incorporated (BMI). The upstart BMI
quickly became a magnet for regional musicians, such as rhythm-andblues and country-and-western artists, who were traditionally neglected by
the New York–based ASCAP. Because these less popular musicians wanted
exposure more than money, they agreed to let the radio stations broadcast music for free. The business model of charging radio stations a fortune
for the right to play music collapsed. Instead, radio was recognized as a

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 35

l

35

prime marketing channel for artists, who would make their money from
selling records and concerts.
Although ASCAP challenged this in several lawsuits in the 1950s and
1960s, it never regained the power to charge high royalties to radio stations.
Free-to-air radio plus nominal royalties for artists created the disk jockey
era and, in turn, the Top 40 phenomenon. Today these royalties are
calculated based on a formula involving time, reach, and type of station,
but are low enough for radio stations to prosper.
The irony was complete. Rather than undermining the music business,
as ASCAP had feared, Free helped the music industry grow huge and
profitable. A free inferior version of the music (lower quality, unpredictable
availability) turned out to be great marketing for a paid superior version,
and the artists’ revenues shifted from performance to record royalties. Now
Free offers the opportunity to switch back again, as free music serves as
marketing for the growing concert business. The one constant, predictably,
is that the labels are still against it.

THE AGE OF ABUNDANCE
If the twentieth century saw people starting to embrace Free again as a
concept, it also witnessed a crucial phenomenon that helped to make Free
a reality—the arrival of abundance. For most previous generations,
scarcity—of food, of clothing, or of shelter—was a constant concern. For
those born in the developed world in the past half century or so, however,
abundance has been the keynote. And nowhere has that abundance been
more apparent than in that fundamental prerequisite for life: food.
When I was a kid, hunger was one of the main problems of poverty
in America. Today, it’s obesity. Something dramatic has changed in the
world of agriculture in the past four decades—we got much better at
growing food. A technology-driven revolution turned a scarce commodity
into an abundant one. And in that story lie clues to what can happen
when any major resource shifts from scarcity to abundance.
There are only five major inputs to a crop: sun, air, water, land
(nutrients), and labor. Sun and air are free, and if the crop is grown in
an area with plenty of rainfall, water can be free, too. The remaining

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

36

13:48

l

Page 36

CHRIS ANDERSON

inputs—primarily labor, land, and fertilizer—are very much not free, and
they account for most of the price of crops.
In the nineteenth century, the Industrial Revolution mechanized
agriculture, radically lowering the cost of labor and increasing crop
yield. But it was the “Green Revolution” of the 1960s that really transformed the economics of food by making farming so efficient that fewer
people had to do it anymore. The secret of this second revolution was
chemistry.
For most of human history manure has determined how much food
we had. Agricultural yield was limited by the availability of fertilizer, and
that largely came from animal (and sometimes human) waste. If a farm
wanted to support both animals and crops in a synergistic nutrient cycle,
it had to split its land between them. But at the end of the nineteenth
century, naturalists began to understand what it was in manure that plants
need: nitrogen, phosphorous, and potassium.
At the beginning of the twentieth century, a few chemists started work
on making those elements synthetically. The breakthrough came when
Fritz Haber, working for BASF, figured out how to extract nitrogen
from the air in the form of ammonia by combining air with natural gas
under high pressure and heat. Commercialized by Carl Bosch in 1910,
cheap nitrogenous fertilizer—along with the sudden availability of it—is
credited with averting the long-predicted “Malthusian catastrophe,” or
population crisis. Today, production of ammonia currently constitutes
about 5 percent of global natural gas consumption, accounting for around
2 percent of world energy production.
The Haber-Bosch Process eliminated farmers’ dependency on
manure. Along with chemical pesticides and herbicides, this created the
Green Revolution, which increased agricultural capacity worldwide
nearly a hundredfold, allowing the planet to feed a growing population,
especially a new middle class that, desiring to eat higher on the food
chain, increasingly chose resource-intensive meat rather than just
grains.
The effects of this have been dramatic. The cost of feeding ourselves
has dropped from one-third of the average U.S. household income in
1955 to less than 15 percent today.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 37

l

37

PILING CORN UPON CORN
One aspect of agricultural abundance that touches every one of us every
day is the Corn Economy. This extraordinary grass, bred by man over
millennia to have larger and larger starch-filled kernels, produces more
food per acre than any other plant on the Earth.
Corn economies are naturally abundant economies, at least as far as
food goes. Historians often look at the great civilizations of the ancient
world through the lens of three grains: rice, wheat, and corn. Rice is
protein-rich but extremely hard to grow. Wheat is easy to grow but
protein-poor. Only corn is both easy to grow and plump with protein.
What historians have observed is that the protein/labor ratio of these
grains influenced the course of the civilizations based on them. The higher
that ratio, the more “social surplus” the people eating that grain had,
since they could feed themselves with less work. The effect of this was
not always positive. Rice and wheat societies tended to be agrarian,
inwardly focused cultures, presumably because the process of raising the
crops took so much of their energy. But corn cultures—the Mayans, the
Aztecs—had spare time and energy, which they often used to attack
their neighbors. By this analysis, corn’s abundance made the Aztecs
warlike.
Today, we use corn for more than just food. Between synthetic fertilizer
and breeding techniques that make corn the most efficient converter of
sunlight and water to starch the world has ever seen, we are now swimming
in a golden harvest of plenty—far more than we can eat. So corn has
become an industrial feedstock for products of all sorts, from paint to
packaging. Cheap corn has driven out many other foods from our diet and
converted natural grass-eating animals, such as cows, into corn-processing
machines.
As Michael Pollan points out in The Ominivore’s Dilemma, a chicken
nugget “piles corn upon corn: what chicken it contains consists of corn
[its feed], but so do the nugget’s other constituents, including the modified corn starch that glues the thing together, the corn flour in the batter
and the corn oil in which it is fried. Much less obviously, the leavenings
and the lecithin, the mono-, di- and triglycerides, the attractive golden

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

38

13:48

l

Page 38

CHRIS ANDERSON

color and even the citric acid that keeps the nugget fresh can all be derived
from corn.”
A quarter of all the products found in an average supermarket today
contain corn, Pollan writes. And that goes for the nonfood items, too!
From toothpaste and cosmetics to disposable diapers and cleansers, everything contains corn, even the cardboard they’re boxed in. Even the
supermarket itself, with its wallboard and joint compound, linoleum
and adhesives, is built on corn.
Corn is so plentiful that we now use it to make fuel for our cars, in
the form of ethanol, which has finally tested its abundance limits. After
decades of price declines, corn has in recent years started getting more
expensive along with oil prices. But innovation abhors a rising commodity,
so that rising price has simply accelerated the search for a way to make
ethanol out of switchgrass or other forms of cellulose, which can be grown
where corn cannot. Once that magic cellulose-eating enzyme is found,
corn will get cheap again, and with it, food of all sorts.

EHRLICH’S BAD BET
The idea that commodities might get cheaper, not more expensive, over
time is counterintuitive. Food is at least replenishable, but minerals are
not. After all, the Earth is a limited resource, and the more ore we take
out of it the less there remains, which is a classic case of scarcity. In 1972,
a think tank called the Club of Rome published a book called Limits to
Growth that modeled the consequences of a rapidly growing world
population and finite resource supplies. It went on to sell 30 million
copies and defined the environmental movement, including the dangers
of the “population bomb” that was putting a higher burden on our planet
than it could conceivably take.
But not everyone agreed with this Malthusian despair. A look at the
history of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries suggested that we get
smarter faster than we reproduce—human ingenuity tends to find ways to
extract resources from the earth faster than we can use them. This has the
effect of increasing supply faster than demand, which in turn depresses prices.
(Obviously this can’t go on forever, since those resources are ultimately

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 39

l

39

limited, but the point was that they are a lot less limited than the Club
of Rome thought.) The debate surrounding the veracity of this statement
turned into one of the most famous bets in history, one that would essentially define the opposing views of scarcity versus abundance thinking.
In September 1980, Paul Ehrlich, a population biologist, and Julian
Simon, an economist, made a wager, publicly recorded in the pages of
Social Science Quarterly, over the future price of some core commodities.
Simon made a public offer to stake $10,000 on his belief that “the
cost of non-government-controlled raw materials (including grain and oil)
will not rise in the long run.” Ehrlich took the bet, and they designated
September 29, 1990, ten years hence, as the payoff date. If the inflationadjusted prices of various metals rose over that period, Simon would
pay Ehrlich the combined difference; if the prices fell, Ehrlich would pay
Simon. Ehrlich chose five metals: copper, chrome, nickel, tin, and
tungsten.
Between 1980 and 1990, the world’s population grew by more than
800 million, the largest increase in one decade in all of history. But by
September 1990, without a single exception, the price of each of
Ehrlich’s selected metals had fallen, and in some cases by more than half.
Chrome, which had sold for $3.90 a pound in 1980, was down to $3.70
in 1990. Tin, which was $8.72 a pound in 1980, was down to $3.88 a
decade later.
Why did Simon win the bet? Partly because he was a good economist
and understood the substitution effect: If a resource becomes too scarce
and expensive, it provides an incentive to look for an abundant replacement, which shifts demand away from the scarce resource (witness the
current race to find replacements for oil). Simon believed—rightly so—
that human ingenuity and the learning curve of science and technology
would tend to create new resources faster than we used them.
He also won because Ehrlich was simply too pessimistic. Ehrlich had
predicted famines of “unbelievable proportions” occurring by 1975, with
hundreds of millions of people starving to death in the 1970s and 1980s,
which would signify that the world was “entering a genuine age of scarcity.”
(Despite his miscalculations, Ehrlich received a MacArthur Foundation
Genius Award in 1990 for having promoted “greater public understanding
of environmental problems.”)

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

40

13:48

l

Page 40

CHRIS ANDERSON

Humans are wired to understand scarcity better than abundance. Just
as we’ve evolved to overreact to threats and danger, one of our survival
tactics is to focus on the risk that supplies are going to run out. Abundance, from an evolutionary perspective, resolves itself, while scarcity needs
to be fought over. The result is that despite Simon’s victory, the world
seemed to assume that Ehrlich, on some level, was still right.
Simon complained that, for some reason he could never comprehend,
people were inclined to believe the very worst about anything and everything; they were immune to contrary evidence just as if they’d been
medically vaccinated against the force of fact. Ehrlich’s gloomy predictions
continued (and continue) to have influence. Meanwhile Simon’s own
observations seem to be of interest only to commodities traders.

CORNUCOPIA BLINDNESS
It should have been obvious that Simon stood a better chance of winning
the bet. But our tendency to give scarcity more attention than abundance
has caused us to ignore the many examples of abundance that have arisen
in our own lifetime, like corn, for starters. The problem is that once
something becomes abundant, we tend to ignore it, just like we ignore
the air that we breathe. There is a reason why economics is defined as
the science of “choice under scarcity”: In abundance you don’t have to
make choices, which means that you don’t have to think about it at all.
You can see this in examples small and large. In some landlocked parts
of Europe during the Middle Ages salt was at times so scarce that it was
used as a “currency” like gold. Just look at it now: It’s a condiment included
free with any meal—too cheap to meter.
In the broader category there are sweeping effects such as globalization, which made abundant labor available to any country. Today basic
necessities such as clothing can be made so cheaply as to be essentially
disposable. In 1900, the most basic man’s shirt (essentially the fabric and
sewing equivalent of a T shirt) in the United States cost about $1 wholesale,
which was a lot, especially after it was marked up for retail. As a result,
the average American consumer had just eight outfits.
Today, that T shirt still costs $1 wholesale. But $1 today is worth

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 41

l

41

one-twenty-fifth what $1 was worth a century ago, which means that in
practice we can buy twenty-five shirts for the price of one from back then.
There is no need for anyone to dress in rags today; indeed some homeless have easier access to free clothing than they do to showers and washing
machines, so they simply treat clothing as a disposable item, to be worn
for a short while and then discarded.
But perhaps the most familiar example of abundance in the twentieth
century was plastic, which made atoms almost as costless and malleable
as bits. What plastic, the ultimately fungible commodity, could do was to
reduce manufacturing and material costs to practically nothing. It didn’t
need to be carved, machined, painted, cast, or stamped. It was simply
molded in any shape, texture, or color desired. The result was the birth
of disposable culture. The concept King Gillette introduced with the razor
blade was extended to nearly everything else by Leo Baekeland, who
created the first all-synthetic polymer in 1907. His name gave us Bakelite.
As embodied by the company’s logo, the letter B hovering over the
mathematical symbol for infinity, the polymer’s applications seemed
endless.
In World War II plastic became a key strategic material and the U.S.
government spent a billion dollars on synthetic polymer production
plants. After the war, all this capacity, redirected to the consumer market,
turned a remarkably malleable material into an exceedingly cheap one.
And thus were born Tupperware, Formica tables, fiberglass chairs,
Naugahyde love seats, hula hoops, disposable pens, Silly Putty, and
nylon panty hose.
The first generation of plastic was sold not as a disposable substance
but rather as a superior one. It could be formed into more perfect shapes
than metal and was more lasting than wood. But the second generation
of plastics, the vinyls and polystyrenes, were so cheap that they could be
tossed out without a thought. In the 1960s, brightly colored disposable
goods represented modernity, the triumph of industrial technology over
material scarcity. Throwing away manufactured goods was not wasteful;
it was the privilege of an advanced civilization.
After the 1970s, attitudes toward this superabundance began to change.
The environmental cost of a disposable consumer culture became more
obvious. Plastic may have seemed close to free, but that’s only because

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

42

13:48

l

Page 42

CHRIS ANDERSON

we weren’t pricing it properly. Include the environmental costs—the
“negative externalities”—and maybe it doesn’t feel as right to toss out that
McDonald’s Happy Meal toy after one play. A generation started recycling.
Our attitudes toward abundant resources moved from personal psychology
(“it’s free to me”) to collective psychology (“it’s not free to us”).

ABUNDANCE WINS
The story of the twentieth century is extraordinary social and economic
change driven by abundance. The automobile was enabled by the ability
to tap vast stores of petroleum, which replaced scarce whale oil and made
liquid fuels ubiquitous. The eighty-foot container, which didn’t need a
dock full of longshoremen to load and unload, made shipping cheap
enough to tap abundant labor far away. Computers made information
abundant.
Just as water will always flow downhill, economies flow toward abundance. Products that can become commoditized and cheap tend to do so,
and companies seeking profits move upstream in search of new scarcities.
Where abundance drives the costs of something to the floor, value shifts
to adjacent levels, something technology publisher Tim O’Reilly calls the
“Law of Conservation of Attractive Profits.”
In 2001, management guru Seth Godin wrote in Unleashing the
Ideavirus, “Twenty years ago, the top 100 companies in the Fortune 500
either dug something out of the ground or turned a natural resource (iron
ore or oil) into something you could hold.” Today, as Godin observed, it’s
very different.
Only thirty-two of the Top 100 companies today make things you can
hold, from aerospace and motor vehicles to chemicals and food, metal
bending and heavy industry. The other sixty-eight traffic mostly in ideas,
not resource processing. Some offer services rather than goods, such as
health care and telecommunications. Others create goods that are mostly
intellectual property, such as drugs and semiconductors, where the cost
to produce the physical product is tiny compared to the cost of inventing
it. Yet others create markets for other people’s goods, such as mass retailers
and wholesalers. Here’s a breakdown of the list:

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Page 43

l

43

Insurance: Life, Health (12)
Health Care (6)
Commercial Banks (5)
Wholesalers (5)
Food and Drug Stores (5)
General Merchandisers (4)
Pharmaceuticals (4)
Securities (4)
Specialty Retailers (4)
Telecommunications (4)
Computers, Office Equipment (3)
Entertainment (3)
Diversified Financials (2)
Mail, Package, Freight Delivery (2)
Network and Other Communications Equipment (2)
Computer Software (1)
Savings Institutions (1)
Semiconductors and Other Electronic Components (1)

The point, which we learned from the Ehrlich/Simon bet, was that as
commodities become cheaper, value moves elsewhere. There’s still a
lot of money in commodities (witness the oil-producing states), but the
highest profit margins are usually found where gray matter has been
added to things. That’s what happened to the above list. A few decades
ago, the most value was in manufacturing. Then globalization rendered
manufacturing a commodity, and the price fell. So the value moved to
things that were not (yet) commodities, further away from hand-eye coordination and closer to brain-mouth coordination. Today’s knowledge
workers are yesterday’s factory workers (and the day before’s farmers)
moving upstream in search of scarcity.
These days that scarcity is what former U.S. labor secretary Robert
Reich called “symbolic analysis,” the combination of knowledge, skills,
and abstract thinking that defines an effective knowledge worker. The
constant challenge is to figure out how best to divide labor between people
and computers, and that line is always moving.
As computers are taught to do a human job (like stock trading), the

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

44

13:48

l

Page 44

CHRIS ANDERSON

price of that job drops closer to zero, and the displaced humans either
learn to do something more challenging or they don’t. The first group
typically gets paid more than they used to and the second group gets paid
less. The first is the opportunity that comes with industries moving toward
abundance; the second is the cost. As a society, our job is to try to make
the first group bigger than the second.
Abundance thinking is not only discovering what will become cheaper,
but also looking for what will become more valuable as a result of that
shift, and moving to that. It’s the engine of growth, something we’ve
been riding since even before David Ricardo defined the “comparative
advantage” of one country over another in the eighteenth century.
Yesterday’s abundance consisted of products from another country with
more plentiful resources or cheaper labor. Today’s also consists of
products from the land of silicon and glass threads.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 45

4
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF FREE
IT FEELS GOOD. TOO GOOD?

In 1996, the Village Voice finally gave in. Forty years after its founding,
the legendary publication stopped charging a cover price. Like almost all
other weekly city newspapers, it would become free, distributed in boxes
on the street and in stacks at friendly retailers. This was pretty much
universally marked as the day the Village Voice stopped mattering. A 2005
profile of the paper in New York magazine was headlined “The Voice
from Beyond the Grave: The legendary downtown paper has been a shell
of its former self since it went free nearly a decade ago.”
Now contrast that with The Onion, another weekly newspaper. Started
in 1988 as a free satirical broadsheet in the college town of Madison,
Wisconsin, The Onion has grown into an empire. Over the past two
decades, it has expanded its regional print editions in ten other cities and
launched a Web site that now gets millions of visitors each month. It
publishes books, produces a TV show, and dabbles in feature-length
movies. The Onion was born free, stayed free, and continues to thrive.
On the face of it, the story of these two publications is puzzling. Free
seemingly killed one weekly newspaper but animated another. In one
case, Free devalued the product, while in another it drove an impressive
expansion.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

46

13:48

l

Page 46

CHRIS ANDERSON

But it’s not as simple as that. For starters, Free didn’t cause the demise
of the Village Voice. As the New York article explained:
Told that many writers felt that the impact of their work had been diminished when the paper went free, [publisher] David Schneiderman scoffed,
adding that there was no choice. “We were below 130,000 circulation,
down from a top of 160,000. Now the circulation is 250,000. . . . Wouldn’t
you rather be read by twice as many people?” . . . It wasn’t going free that
hurt the paper. It saved the paper. Kept it going, making money.

In other words, the Voice had been in decline, at least in terms of its
business fundamentals, for many years before it went free; people confused
cause and effect.
Why do people think “free” means diminished quality in one instance,
and not in another? It turns out that our feelings about “free” are relative,
not absolute. If something used to cost money and now doesn’t, we tend
to correlate that with a decline in quality. But if something never cost
money, we don’t feel the same way. A free bagel is probably stale, but
free ketchup in a restaurant is fine. Nobody thinks that Google is an
inferior search engine because it doesn’t charge.
With The Onion and the Village Voice, we get at one crucial misconception about Free, but only in the context of two prices—zero and
non-zero. In today’s media marketplace, the psychology of Free (and
therefore pricing) is actually a bit more nuanced. Let me give you an
example that is closer to home: a glossy monthly magazine. It can typically be obtained in several different ways. You can read it online for free,
in a somewhat stripped-down form that trades the design and photography
packaging of the print edition (which is hard to re-create on the Web) for
instant accessibility. Or you can buy one issue of the magazine on the
newsstand for, say, $4.95. Or you can subscribe and get a year (twelve
issues) for as little as $10, which is 83 cents per issue, delivered right to
your door. Where do those three prices—$0, $4.95, and $0.83—come
from?
The Web price (free) is the easiest. The cost of delivering the content
is so low that publishers round down to zero and use Free to reach the
largest possible audience. They may put an average of two ads on every
page, each of which is sold for between $5 and $20 per thousand views.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 47

l

47

That means they get between 1 and 4 cents of revenue for each page
someone looks at. The cost of serving that page is only a fraction of a
cent. (The rest of the costs are in creating the content in the first place,
but publishers amortize that over the entire audience: The bigger the
readership, the lower the cost per page.)
The next simplest price is the newsstand price of $4.95. The newsstand keeps less than half, to pay their costs and make a profit. The rest
goes to the publisher and provides a dollar or two of profit after the costs
of printing and distribution. But for most magazines, more than half the
copies they print don’t actually sell, which means they are returned and
pulped. That can cut the profit considerably. So why bother with the
newsstand? Because it’s a good way to acquire new subscribers, since they
can sample the real thing rather than just read a letter describing it. Plus,
publishers can make a decent profit from the advertising in the copies
that do sell.
So far those prices are set by economics, not psychology. But what
about the $10 yearly subscription? Well, here’s where it gets interesting.
The actual cost of printing and mailing twelve issues to your home is
$15, and when you add the cost of acquiring you as a subscriber in the
first place, that can add up to more than $30 per year per subscriber. And
yet they charge just $10. There’s no magic at work here. The advertising
makes up the difference, so that $10 of direct revenues from the subscriber
is topped up by the advertiser. Advertising makes a loss-leading subscription model profitable. And if the subscriber stays for three years or more,
even the acquisition costs are repaid, making them more profitable yet.
But why $10? If the publisher is able to subsidize its subscribers by
more than 60 percent, surely it could go all the way to 100 percent and
make the subscription free? Ah, now we’re getting into psychology.
The simple answer is that the act of writing a check or entering a
credit card number, regardless of the amount, is an act of consumer
volition that completely changes how an advertiser sees a reader. Writing
a check for any amount (even 1 cent) means that you actually want the
magazine, and will presumably read it and treasure it when it arrives. In
fact, advertisers will pay as much as five times more to be part of that
relationship than they’ll pay for a free magazine that may be treated as
junk mail.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

48

13:48

l

Page 48

CHRIS ANDERSON

However, there are plenty of magazines that do give away free subscriptions. That’s called “controlled circulation” and it’s based on another
currency: information. These magazines tend to be very focused business
periodicals, such as those aimed at chief financial officers or others with
corporate purchasing power, or targeted “tastemaker” lifestyle magazines.
These business magazines’ readers certify—well, claim—that they are
important people with huge wads of cash to spend, and the magazine
can use this information to charge the advertisers higher rates to reach
them. In this case, having a lot of desirable executives on their subscription rolls, each of whom has nominally filled out a form claiming to want
the magazine, compensates in the eyes of the advertisers for the fact that
these readers have not put any actual money where their mouth is. A
similar type of focused circulation has also been successful for Vice, an
irreverent lifestyle magazine aimed at twentysomethings. Freely distributed
at hip coffee shops, record stores, and clothing boutiques—initially in
Canada in the 1990s, then the United States, then worldwide—Vice gave
advertisers access to an influential audience they might not otherwise
reach. The small print publication eventually grew into a record label, a
retail clothing chain, Vice Film, and VBS.tv, a Web television venture.
Okay, so that explains why most publishers don’t give away subscriptions for free. But how did they arrive at $10? That price is all about
perception. It is the lowest sum that is not too low to devalue the
product. Lower is better for subscribers, since the less they have to pay,
the more likely they are to sign up. But higher is better for advertisers,
because the more a consumer pays for a product, the more they value it.
So $10 is low enough to get a lot of people to subscribe, while not being
so low that it discredits the product in the eyes of the advertisers. (That
same devaluation of something very cheap can also affect how subscribers
feel, but we can’t measure it as well as we can the advertiser reaction.)

THE PENNY GAP
With magazines it can clearly be effective to charge a minimal price,
instead of nothing. But in most cases, just a penny—a seemingly inconsequential price— can stop the vast majority of consumers in their tracks.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 49

l

49

A single penny doesn’t really mean anything to us economically. So why
does it have so much impact?
The answer is that it makes us think about the choice. That alone is
a disincentive to continue. It’s as if our brains were wired to raise a flag
every time we’re confronted with a price. This is the “is it worth it?” flag.
If you charge a price, any price, we are forced to ask ourselves if we really
want to open our wallets. But if the price is zero, that flag never goes up
and the decision just got easier.
The proper name for that flag is what George Washington University
economist Nick Szabo has dubbed “mental transaction costs.” These are,
simply, the toll of thinking. We’re all a bit lazy and we’d rather not think
about things if we don’t have to. So we tend to choose things that require
the least thinking.
The phrase “transaction costs” has its roots in the theory of the firm,
Nobel Prize–winning economist Ronald Coase’s explanation that companies exist to minimize the communications overhead within and
between teams. This refers mostly to the cognitive load of having to process
information—figuring out who should do what, whom to trust, and the like.
Szabo extended this to purchasing decisions. He looked at the idea of
“micropayments,” financial systems that would allow you to pay fractions
of a cent per Web page you read, or millieuros for each comic strip you
download. All these schemes are destined to fail, Szabo concluded, because
although they minimize the economic costs of choices, they still have all
the cognitive costs.
For example, consider a PowerPoint presentation on “ten time-saving
ideas for a penny each.” The mental energy of deciding if the whole thing
is worth 10 cents, or if each individual idea is worth a penny, just isn’t
worth it. Many potential customers would be put off by the payment
and decision process. Meanwhile the revenues generated by such micropayments are, by definition, tiny. It’s the worst of both worlds—the mental
tax of a larger price without the commensurate cash. (Szabo was right:
Micropayments have largely failed to take off.)
So charging a price, any price, creates a mental barrier that most people
won’t bother crossing. Free, in contrast, speeds right past that decision,
increasing the number of people who will try something. What Free grants,
in exchange for forsaking direct revenues, is the potential of mass sampling.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

50

13:48

l

Page 50

CHRIS ANDERSON

After examining mental transaction costs, Clay Shirky, a writer and
NYU lecturer, concluded that content creators would be wise to give up
on dreams of charging for their offerings:
For a creator more interested in attention than income, free makes sense.
In a regime where most of the participants are charging, freeing your content
gives you a competitive advantage. And, as the drunks say, you can’t fall
off the floor. Anyone offering content free gains an advantage that can’t be
beaten, only matched, because the competitive answer to free—“I’ll pay
you to read my weblog!”—is unsupportable over the long haul.
Free content is thus what biologists call an evolutionarily stable strategy.
It is a strategy that works well when no one else is using it—it’s good to be
the only person offering free content. It’s also a strategy that continues to
work if everyone is using it, because in such an environment, anyone who
begins charging for their work will be at a disadvantage. In a world of free
content, even the moderate hassle of micropayments greatly damages user
preference, and increases their willingness to accept free material as a
substitute.

So on a psychological basis (and all economics is rooted in psychology),
if there’s a way to take the whole “is it worth it?” question off the table,
it pays to do so. Note that there are other mental transaction costs to
Free—from worrying if it’s really free to weighing nonmonetary costs such
as considering the environmental impact of a free newspaper or just fearing
that you’ll look like a cheapskate. (One friend tells me the giveaway furniture he puts outside his house is only taken at night.) But those costs aside,
taking money out of the equation can greatly increase participation.
Venture capitalist Josh Kopelman of First Round Capital looked at this
psychological barrier to paying and realized it made nonsense of the usual
teaching about pricing strategy. Rather than supply-and-demand curves
turning price into a classic econ 101 calculation, there are really two
markets: free and anything else. And the difference between the two is
profound. In a sense, what Free does is bend the demand curve. As
Wharton professor Kartik Hosanagar says: “The demand you get at a price
of zero is many times higher than the demand you get at a very low price.
Suddenly, the demand shoots up in a nonlinear fashion.”
Kopelman called this the “penny gap.” Entrepreneurs often come to

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 51

l

51

him, he has said, with business plans that assume they will make their
money from subscriptions, and that 5 percent of the people who sample
their wares will pay. However, that’s rarely the case, as Kopelman explains:
Most entrepreneurs fall into the trap of assuming that there is a consistent
elasticity in price—that is, the lower the price of what you’re selling, the
higher the demand will be. So you end up with hockey stick looking revenue
charts that go up and to the right, all supported by an “it only costs $2 per
month” business plan.
The truth is, scaling from $5 to $50 million is not the toughest part of
a new venture—it’s getting your users to pay you anything at all. The biggest
gap in any venture is that between a service that is free and one that costs
a penny.

So from the consumer’s perspective, there is a huge difference between
cheap and free. Give a product away and it can go viral. Charge a single
cent for it and you’re in an entirely different business, one of clawing and
scratching for every customer. The truth is that zero is one market and
any other price is another. In many cases, that’s the difference between
a great market and none at all.

THE COST OF ZERO COST
Traditionally, economics had little to say about Free, since it technically
didn’t exist in the domain of money at all. But in the 1970s, a new branch
of economics emerged that looked at the psychology driving economic
behavior. Called “behavioral economics,” today the field ranges from
game theory to experimental economics. Ultimately, what it tries to explain
is why we make the economic choices we do, even when they aren’t
necessarily the most rational ones.
In Predictably Irrational, Dan Ariely describes several experiments he
and his colleagues have conducted to try to understand just why this word
“free” is so powerful. “Zero is not just another price, it turns out,” he writes.
“Zero is an emotional hot button—a source of irrational excitement.”
It’s easy to say, but difficult to measure, which is why Ariely set out to do
just that.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

52

13:48

l

Page 52

CHRIS ANDERSON

The first experiment involved chocolate. (Note: Behavioral economists
have limited budgets and limited time, so a lot of their experiments involve
a folding table, candy, and random college students. So take the results
as directionally interesting rather than rigorously quantitative.) The
researchers sold two kinds of treats: prized Lindt truffles from Switzerland
and ordinary Hershey’s Kisses. They priced the Lindt truffles at 15 cents
(about half the wholesale price) and the Kisses at 1 cent. The customers
behaved pretty rationally, calculating that the difference in quality of the
two chocolates more than made up for their difference in price: 73 percent
chose the truffle and 27 percent chose the Kiss.
Then Ariely introduced Free into the equation, lowering the price of
both chocolates by 1 cent. Now the Lindt truffle was 14 cents and the
Kiss was free. Suddenly the humble Kiss became a hit. Sixty-nine percent
chose it over the truffle. Nothing about the price/quality calculus had
changed—the two chocolates were still priced 14 cents apart. But the
introduction of zero caused the customers to reverse their preference.
The psychologically confusing thing in this case is the comparison
between two products, one of which is free. Sometimes Free makes perfect
sense, as in the case of a bin of free athletic socks in a department store.
There’s little downside to taking as many as you want (aside from looking
like a bit of a miser). But imagine if you went into the store expressly to
buy a pair of socks with a nicely padded heel and gold toe. As you reach
the sock section, you are distracted by the free version and you end up
walking out of the store with something you didn’t want (socks with no
padding or gold toe) simply because they were free.
What is it about Free that is so enticing? Ariely explains:
Most transactions have an upside and a downside, but when something is
FREE! we forget the downside. FREE! gives us such an emotional charge
that we perceive what is being offered as immensely more valuable than it
really is. Why? I think it’s because humans are intrinsically afraid of loss.
The real allure of FREE! is tied to this fear. There’s no visible possibility
of loss when we choose a FREE! item (it’s free). But suppose we choose
the item that’s not free. Uh-oh, now there’s a risk of having made a poor
decision—the possibility of loss. And so, given the choice, we go for what
is free.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 53

l

53

There are similar experiments at a larger scale going on every day around
us, often by accident. One such example is Amazon’s free shipping. As
anyone who has used the online retailer knows, you can often get free
shipping when the total purchase is more than $25. Amazon’s hope is that
if you had originally planned to buy a single book for $16.95, the freeshipping offer will entice you to add a second book to your order to bring
the total purchase to more than $25. When Amazon rolled this out, it worked
great: Sales of second books skyrocketed. Well, everywhere except in France.
What was different about the French? It turns out that they were
presented with a slightly different offer. When Amazon rolled out free
shipping across all of its national sites, the French one mistakenly set the
shipping price to 1 franc, or about 20 cents. That tiny amount completely
eliminated the second-book effect. When Amazon fixed this and France
joined the other countries in offering free shipping, the French consumers
behaved like everyone else and decided to add the second book to their
shopping cart.
(Interestingly, Amazon was actually sued for this. A 1981 French law,
pushed through by then-minister of culture Jack Lang, forbids booksellers
from offering discounts of more than 5 percent off the list price. In 2007,
the French Booksellers Union took Amazon to court, arguing that it was
exceeding that discount when the free shipping was factored in. The union
won, and Amazon was charged $1,500 a day in fines, which, to its credit,
it decided to pay rather than eliminate the offer. After all, Free would
surely bring in more than enough to make up the difference.)
Zappos, the online shoe retailer, goes even further: It offers free shipping both ways: to you and, if you want to return the shoes, back to the
warehouse. The point is to eliminate the psychological barrier to buying
shoes online, which is that they may not fit. What Zappos wants you to
do (really!) is to order several pairs of shoes just to try them on at home.
Hopefully, you’ll like a pair or two and send the rest back; you only pay
for what you keep. The cost of the shipping is built into Zappos’s prices,
which are not the lowest around, but to its many happy customers, the
convenience is worth it.
From a psychological perspective, the use of Free in Zappos’s case is
simply risk reduction. The only reason to drive to a shoe store is to know
that the shoes fit and look good on your feet. By bringing the shoes to

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

54

13:48

l

Page 54

CHRIS ANDERSON

you at no additional cost, Zappos reaches risk parity with a physical store,
and gains convenience advantage. The only problem, says CEO Tony
Hsieh, is that many people still feel guilty about ordering more shoes than
they want and sending them back. It wouldn’t be a problem if they just
didn’t send them back (that’s a sale!), but rather if they won’t order the
shoes in the first place, anticipating their guilt when they do send most
of them back.
Once again, the enemy of Free is waste. To order shoes you don’t
really want and send them back feels wasteful, and indeed it is, from
the labor of the workers and delivery people involved to the carbon
emitted in the transportation. Simply taking money out of the equation
isn’t enough to fully eliminate the perception of a price, in this case an
amorphous social and environmental cost rather than a direct hit to your
wallet.
Behavioral economists explain much of our perplexing responses to
Free by distinguishing the decisions made in the “social realm” from those
made in the “financial realm.” Zappos’s shipping is free in the financial
realm, but not free in the social realm, where our brains try to calculate
the net social cost of sending back five pairs of shoes for the one we keep.
It’s an impossible calculus, and in the face of that, some consumers just
shut down: They don’t take the offer, even though it’s free.
Ariely demonstrated the distinction between these two realms with
another experiment: He put six-packs of Coke in college dorm refrigerators. He also left plates of money. People quickly took the Coke, but
didn’t touch the money. They treated the Coke as “free,” even though
they know it costs money. But taking actual money felt like stealing.

NO COST, NO COMMITMENT
I was at a conference recently at Google, where they famously offer racks
of free snacks, from healthy trail bars to distinctly unhealthy jelly beans.
This was a scientific meeting, and it was attended mostly by non-Googlers,
largely academics. They kept returning to the rack, understandably
impressed by the opulent display of gratis goodies. By the end of the first
day, there were half-eaten bags of snacks everywhere.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 55

l

55

It’s interesting to imagine how that would have been different had
Google charged a price for those snacks, even just a dime. I’ll bet that a
lot less would have been taken, and a lot more people would have finished
what they took. Also, I bet they would have been happier with their
decision to take a snack. They would have thought about whether they
really wanted one, and probably waited until they were hungry. And
they certainly wouldn’t have felt as gross about their hasty decision to eat
the snacks (as I did when I absentmindedly grabbed a handful of ginger
chews and shoved them into my mouth).
This is one of the negative implications of Free. People often don’t
care as much about things they don’t pay for, and as a result they
don’t think as much about how they consume them. Free can encourage
gluttony, hoarding, thoughtless consumption, waste, guilt, and greed. We
take stuff because it’s there, not necessarily because we want it. Charging
a price, even a very low price, can encourage much more responsible
behavior.
The authors of the Penny Closer blog tell the story of a friend who
volunteers for a charity that provides people who are down on their luck
with transportation—free bus tickets, to be exact. Unfortunately, these
tickets, which cost the charity $30 each, are frequently lost. So the charity
instituted a new rule—all tickets would cost $1 to help offset the costs of
replacement. Suddenly, people lost fewer tickets. Just the act of paying
$1 changed how people viewed the ticket. Since they had invested in
it, clients seemed to be more careful not to lose it. Even though it was
inherently worth something before they had to spend $1 on it, the ticket
was somehow worth even more now.
The flip side of both these stories is that the imposition of a price, no
matter how low, typically decreases participation, often radically. In the
Google case, people would take far fewer snacks if they had to pay. In
the case of the charity, it distributed far fewer bus tickets. That is the
trade-off of Free: Free is the best way to maximize the reach of some
product or service, but if that’s not what you’re ultimately trying to do
(Google is not trying to maximize snack food consumption), it can have
counterproductive effects. Like every powerful tool, Free must be used
carefully lest it cause more harm than good.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

56

13:48

l

Page 56

CHRIS ANDERSON

THE TIME/MONEY EQUATION
At some point in your life, you may wake up and realize that you have
more money than time. You will then realize that you should start doing
things differently, which means not walking four blocks to find an ATM
that doesn’t charge a fee, driving forever to find cheaper gas, or painting
your own house.
This same calculus is the foundation of a big part of the freemium
economy (see page 19). We often see it in free-to-play online games, such
as Maple Story, where you can buy tools like “teleportation stones” to
quickly get from one place to another without a long slog or wait for a
bus. Most of these paid digital assets don’t make you a better player, but
they do allow you to become a better player faster.
If you’re a kid, you probably have more time than money. That’s the
force behind MP3 file trading, which is kind of a hassle but is free (albeit
illegal!). As Steve Jobs famously pointed out, if you download music from
peer-to-peer services, you’re likely to deal with problematic file formats,
missing album information, and the chance that it’s the wrong song or a
poor quality version. The time it takes to avoid paying means “you’re
working for less than minimum wage,” he noted. Nevertheless, if you’re
time-rich and money-poor, that makes sense. Free is the right price for you.
But as you get older, the equation reverses and $0.99 here and there
no longer seems as big a deal. You migrate into a paying customer, the
premium user in the freemium equation.
One of my side projects is an open source hardware company called
DIY Drones (developing and selling aerial robotics technology). You’re
likely familiar with the concept of open source software, but the new idea
of extending that to hardware—from circuit boards all the way up to
consumer electronic gadgets like Google’s Android phone—is just now
emerging.
Even in its nascent form, open source hardware is a really interesting
example of how to make money from Free. It adds a new dimension to
the open source software world, because it’s about atoms (which have real
marginal costs), not just bits of information that can be propagated at
nearly no expense.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 57

l

57

The way most open source hardware companies work is this: All the
plans, printed circuit board files, software, and instructions are free and
available to all. If you want to build your own (or, even better, improve
on a design), you’re encouraged to do so. But if you don’t want the
hassle or risk of doing it yourself, you can buy a premade version that’s
guaranteed to work.
For instance, take the Arduino open source microprocessor that
DIY Drones’s autopilots are based on. You can build your own, with full
instructions, which can be found at arduino.cc. Or you can buy one.
Most people do the latter. The Arduino team make their money from a
certification license fee they charge the companies and retailers that make
and sell the boards.
You can build a good business on this model, as Limor Fried has shown
with Adafruit Industries, her electronics kit retail/design company. She
and her business partner, Phillip Torrone, have a simple business model
built around Free, which I have shamelessly copied for DIY Drones.
Here’s how it works:
1. Build a community around free information and advice on a particular topic.
2. With that community’s help, design some products that people want,
and return the favor by making the products free in raw form.
3. Let those with more money than time/skill/risk-tolerance buy the
more polished version of those products. (That may turn out to be
almost everyone.)
4. Do it again and again, building a 40 percent profit margin into the
products to pay the bills.
It’s really just as simple as that. As Torrone says, “I can’t imagine doing
a book, a video, or a magazine unless I had a community that would rally
along the way. In the end it always seemed to be about a story— people
like to see the beginning, middle, end, and plot of something—and if
there’s a buy button somewhere, they sometimes click it and reward us
for working hard.”
When you think about this, it’s another example of the psychology of
Free, in two ways. The first is the mental calculation we do when we

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

58

l

Page 58

CHRIS ANDERSON

value our time. Remember Steve Jobs’s assertion that you’re not even
paying yourself minimum wage if you choose to take the time to wade
through all the messy metadata that comes with file trading? Jobs was
saying that the case for paying $0.99 for a song is that it’s a time saver
(aside from all the other arguments about legality and fairness).
The second reason you might want to pay for something is to lower
the risk of it not being what you want. Prices come with guarantees, while
Free typically doesn’t. In the case of Adafruit, that’s what they’re selling
with their premade electronics. You can be sure that they’ll work, which
is not the case if you’re soldering it together yourself.
But Free can help instill confidence, too. Again, let’s take Adafruit.
The fact that there is a free version and an open source version of the
product available means that you can inspect it and try it without risk.
Plus, you know that you can modify it if it doesn’t precisely fit your needs.
Also, the fact that there is a free version has attracted a larger community
of users. The knowledge that so many others have been drawn to the
product and are there to help if you have problems is reassuring, too. (In
psychology, this is called “mimetic desire,” which basically says that we
want to do things that other people do because their decisions validate
our own, which explains everything from herd behavior to hipster trucker
hats.)
This is why Free works so well in conjunction with Paid. It can accommodate the varying psychologies of a range of consumers, from those who
have more time than money to those who have more money than time.
It can work for those who are confident in their skills and want to do it
themselves, and for those who aren’t and want someone to do it for them.
Free plus Paid can span the full psychology of consumerism.

THE PIRATE BRAIN
A final form of Free that we haven’t yet talked about in detail is piracy.
Piracy is a special form of theft, one that is often considered by pirates
and consumers of pirated goods alike to be a relatively victimless crime.
(I won’t attempt to discuss here whether I think they’re right or not;
we’ll just look at how they see it, from a psychological perspective.) The

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 59

l

59

argument is that a pirated good rarely substitutes for the authentic original.
Instead, it allows the product to reach populations that can’t afford the
original or otherwise wouldn’t have bought it.
The reason piracy is a special class of theft is that the costs to the
rightful owner are intangible. If you make a music album that is then
pirated, the pirates haven’t taken something you own, they have reproduced something you own. This is an important distinction, which boils
down to the reality that you don’t suffer a loss but rather a lesser gain.
The costs are, at most, the opportunity costs of sales not made because
the original was competing with pirated versions in the marketplace.
(We’ll discuss this further in Chapter 14, which looks at pirate markets in
China, where you’ll see that the results are not always entirely negative
for the rightful owner.)
Piracy is a form of imposed Free. You may not have intended your
product to be free, but the marketplace thrust Free upon you. For the
music industry and much of the software industry, this is an everyday
reality. Free has become the de facto price regardless of every effort to
stop it.
One software developer decided to find out why. Cliff Harris creates
video games priced at what he thought was a very reasonable $20. Yet his
games were being pirated constantly. Why?
He asked the readers of Slashdot, a popular technology discussion site.
He got hundreds and hundreds of replies, few of them shorter than one
hundred words. “It was,” he said, “as if a lot of people have waited a long
time to tell a game developer the answer to this question.”
Kevin Kelly reported on the experiment:
He found patterns in the replies that surprised him. Chief among them
was the common feeling that his games (and games in general) were overpriced for what buyers got—even at $20. Secondly, anything that made
purchasing and starting to play difficult—copy protection, digital rights
management (DRM), or complicated online purchasing routines—anything
at all standing between the impulse to play and playing in the game itself
was seen as a legitimate signal to take the free route. Harris also noted that
ideological reasons (rants against capitalism, intellectual property, and “the
man,” or simply liking being an outlaw) were a decided minority.
Much to his credit, the sincere responses to his question changed Harris’s

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

60

13:48

l

Page 60

CHRIS ANDERSON

mind. He decided to alter his business model. He reduced the price of his
games in half (to $10). He removed the little copy protection he had been
using. He promised to make his Web store easier to use, maybe even with
one-click checkout. He decided to increase the length of his free demos.
Most importantly, he had the revelation that he needed to increase the
quality of his games.

In a sense, the people in the marketplace were telling him that they
valued his games at less than he thought they were worth. He realized
any efforts to fight this would be fruitless unless people thought the games
were worth more.
The lesson from Harris’s experience is that in a digital marketplace,
Free is almost always a choice. If you don’t offer it explicitly, others will
typically find a way to introduce it themselves. When the marginal cost
of reproduction is zero, the barriers to Free are mostly psychological—
fear of breaking the law, a sense of fairness, an individual’s calculation on
the value of his or her time, perhaps a habit of paying or ignorance that
a free version can be obtained. Sooner or later, most producers in the
digital realm will find themselves competing with Free. Harris understood
that and figured out how to do it better. With his survey, he looked into
the mind of the pirate and saw a paying customer looking for a reason to
come out.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 61

DIGITAL FREE

5
TOO CHEAP TO MATTER
THE WEB’S LESSON: WHEN SOMETHING HALVES
IN PRICE EACH YEAR, ZERO IS INEVITABLE

In 1954, at the dawn of nuclear power, Lewis Strauss, the head of the
Atomic Energy Commission, stood before a group of science writers in
New York City and foretold great things to come. Diseases would be
conquered and we would come to understand what causes man to age.
People would soon travel “effortlessly” over the seas and through the air
at great speeds. Great periodic regional famines would become a matter
of history. And, most famously, he predicted, “It is not too much to expect
that our children will enjoy in their homes electrical energy too cheap
to meter.”
These were optimistic times: It was the beginning of the space age,
modern medicine was conquering ancient afflictions, chemistry was
bringing “better living” and feeding the planet, and the Information Age
was dawning with infinite possibility. Anything that could be invented
would be invented and then quickly branded, packaged, and sold to an
emerging class of free-spending consumers.
The postwar optimism that science and technology could launch a
prosperous era of unprecedented growth extended from national pride to
domestic bliss. The power of human thought and clever machinery
promised to liberate us from household drudgery and end war. The

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

62

13:48

l

Page 62

CHRIS ANDERSON

question wasn’t whether we’d live in space colonies but what we’d wear
there. The Jetsons were a joke, but no more so than the Flintstones; the
notion we’d someday have space taxis and robot butlers was as certain as
the fact we’d once dwelled in caves.
And indeed, the postwar science and technology boom did set us on
a path of increasing productivity and economic growth at a rate never
before seen. But it wasn’t quite as rosy as Strauss predicted. Electricity
didn’t get too cheap to meter.
Although the fuel costs of uranium were low compared to coal, the
initial costs of building the reactors and power plants turned out to be
much higher. Waste disposal was and remains an unsolved problem. And
an expensive and risky proposition became doubly so after Three Mile
Island and Chernobyl.
Today, nuclear energy costs about the same as coal, which is to say
that it didn’t change the economics of electricity one bit.*
But what if Strauss had been right? What if electricity had, in fact,
become virtually free? The answer is that everything that electricity
touched—which is to say nearly everything—would have been transformed. Rather than balance electricity against other energy sources, we’d
now use electricity as much as we could—we’d waste it, because it would
be so cheap that it wouldn’t be worth worrying about efficiency.
* Like all famous quotes, Strauss’s is often misunderstood. First, he was probably talking about
hydrogen fusion, not uranium fission. Then, as today, fusion was decades away from being viable.
Fission (what’s known as “nuclear power”), on the other hand, was already in the works and everyone,
including Strauss, knew that it probably would be more expensive than coal, given the high capital
costs of setting up the plants.
Second, “Too cheap to meter” doesn’t mean free: It just means too cheap to monitor closely.
Indeed, some buildings built around that time, including the World Trade Center, were designed
without light switches in each office. Instead, building managers could just turn on and off whole
floors, like a Christmas tree. Electricity was expected to be too cheap to bother thinking about.
As an aside, Strauss was a controversial character for more than his flair for hyperbole. He was
a strong proponent of the hydrogen bomb, which put him in conflict with Robert Oppenheimer,
the regretful father of the atomic bomb. He famously testified against Oppenheimer in a congressional witch hunt that led to Oppenheimer losing his security clearance. Strauss told President
Eisenhower that he would only accept the position of AEC chair if Oppenheimer played no role
in advising the agency. He explained that he didn’t trust Oppenheimer partly because of the scientist’s consistent opposition to the superbomb. Within days of being sworn into office in July 1953,
Strauss had all classified AEC material removed from Oppenheimer’s office.
But he got his comeuppance: According to his bio, “Over the years Strauss’ arrogance and his insistence that he was always right made him unpopular on Capitol Hill. In 1959, after two months of
exhausting hearings, the Senate rejected his nomination to be Secretary of Commerce. The ordeal
was publicly humiliating for Strauss, especially after he was caught lying under oath.”

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 63

l

63

All buildings would be electrically heated, never mind the thermal
conversion rate. We’d all be driving electric cars. (Free electricity would
be incentive enough to develop the efficient battery technology to store
it.) Massive desalination plants would turn seawater into all the freshwater
anyone could want, allowing us to irrigate vast inland swaths and turn
deserts into fertile acres.
Because two of the three major inputs to agriculture—air and sun—
are free, and water would now join them, we could begin to grow crops
far in surplus to our food requirements, and many of them would be the
feedstocks for biofuels. In comparison, fossil fuels would be seen as ludicrously expensive and dirty. So net carbon emissions would plummet.
(Plants take carbon out of the atmosphere before they release it again in
burning, while oil and coal add more carbon.) The phrase “global
warming” might never have entered the language.
In short, “too cheap to meter” would have changed the world.
Unlikely? For electricity, perhaps (although who knows what solar
energy may someday bring?). But today there are three other technologies that touch nearly as much of our economy as electricity does: computer
processing power, digital storage, and bandwidth. And all three really are
getting too cheap to meter.
The rate at which this is happening is mind-boggling, even nearly a
half century after Gordon Moore first spotted the trend line now called
Moore’s Law. Even more astounding, processing power—the one Moore
tracked—is actually improving at the slowest pace of the three. Semiconductor chips roughly double the number of transistors they can hold
every eighteen months. (That’s why for the same price every two years or
so you can buy an iPod that holds twice as much music as the last one.)
Hard drive storage is getting better even faster: The number of bytes that
can be saved on a given area of a hard disk doubles about every year,
which is why you can now store hundreds of hours of video on your TiVo.
But the fastest of all three is bandwidth: The speed at which data can be
transferred over a fiber-optic cable doubles every nine months. That’s why
you don’t even need TiVo anymore—you can watch all the TV you want,
when you want it, with streaming online video services such as Hulu.
For each of these technologies there is an economic corollary that is,
if anything, even more powerful: Costs halve at the same rate that capacity,

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

64

13:48

l

Page 64

CHRIS ANDERSON

speed, etc., doubles. So that means that if computing power for a given
price doubles every two years, a given unit of computing power will fall
in price by 50 percent over the same period.
Take the transistor. In 1961, a single transistor cost $10. Two years
later, it was $5. Another two years later, when Moore published his
prediction in the April 1965 issue of Electronics magazine, it was $2.50.
By 1968, the transistor had fallen to $1. Seven years later, it was 10 cents.
Another seven years and it was a penny, and so on.
Today, Intel’s latest processor chips have about 2 billion transistors and
cost around $300. So that means each transistor costs approximately
0.000015 cents. Which is to say, too cheap to meter.
This “triple play” of faster, better, cheaper technologies—processing,
storage, and bandwidth—all come together online, which is why today
you can have free services like YouTube—essentially unlimited amounts
of video that you can watch without delay and with increasingly high
resolution—that would have been ruinously expensive just a few years
ago.
Never in the course of human history have the primary inputs to an
industrial economy fallen in price so fast and for so long. This is the
engine behind the new Free, the one that goes beyond a marketing
gimmick or a cross-subsidy. In a world where prices always seem to go
up, the cost of anything built on these three technologies will always
go down. And keep going down, until it is as close to zero as possible.

ANTICIPATE THE CHEAP
When the cost of the thing you’re making falls this regularly, for this long,
you can try pricing schemes that would seem otherwise insane. Rather
than sell it for what it costs today, you can sell it for what it will cost
tomorrow. The increased demand this lower price will stimulate will
accelerate the curve, ensuring that the product will cost even less than
expected when tomorrow comes. So you make more money.
For instance, in the early 1960s, Fairchild Semiconductor was selling
an early transistor, called the 1211, to the military. Each transistor cost
$100 to make. Fairchild wanted to sell the transistor to RCA for use in

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 65

l

65

their new UHF television tuner. At the time RCA was using traditional
vacuum tubes, which cost only $1.05 each.
Fairchild’s founders, the legendary Robert Noyce and Jerry Sanders,
knew that as their production volume increased, the cost of the transistor
would quickly go down. But to make their first commercial sale they
needed to get the price down immediately, before they had any volume
at all. So they rounded down. Way down. They cut the price of the 1211
to $1.05, right from the start, before they even knew how to make it so
cheaply. “We were going to make the chips in a factory we hadn’t built,
using a process we hadn’t yet developed, but the bottom line was: We
were out there the next week quoting $1.05,” Sanders later recalled.
“We were selling into the future.”
It worked. By getting way ahead of the price decline curve, they made
their goal of $1.05 and took 90 percent of the UHF tuner market share.
Two years later they were able to cut the price of the 1211 to 50 cents,
and still make a profit. Kevin Kelly, who described this effect in his book
New Rules for the New Economy, calls this “anticipating the cheap.”
Imagine if Henry Ford had enjoyed the same trend in his Model T
factory. It seems almost impossible: How could physical stuff such as a
car fall in price the way digital technology does? Every year, we’d have
to get twice as good at extracting ore from the ground and turning it into
metals. All the components that go into a car would have to get cheaper,
like semiconductor chips, obeying some sort of Moore’s Law of windshield wipers and transmission machining. Workers would have to agree
to cut their salaries in half each year, or half of them would have to be
replaced by robots.
But if you had been alive in the first few decades of the automobile
industry, this wouldn’t be impossible to imagine at all. Between 1906 and
1918, automobile “quality-adjusted” prices (the performance of the car
per dollar) fell by about 50 percent every two years, so by the end of that
period, an equivalent car cost just one-fifth what it had a decade earlier.
By moving from handcrafting to an assembly line powered by electric
motors, Ford was able to lower the cost of muscle power. Then, by switching
from custom-crafted parts to standard manufactured components, he
lowered the cost of labor again and sold millions of mass-produced cars.
But that remarkable cost-decline curve, a product of Henry Ford’s

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

66

13:48

l

Page 66

CHRIS ANDERSON

groundbreaking production line techniques, couldn’t last. The price/
performance improvements of cars slowed, and today they amount to just
a few percent a year. We have indeed become much better at extracting
ore from the ground, and half of automotive workers really have been
replaced by robots, but it didn’t happen overnight. Cars do get cheaper
and better, but at nothing like the pace of digital technology. Today, a
car is still an expensive item.
From an environmental perspective, that’s no bad thing. Even if it
were possible for physical goods to fall in price as quickly as microchips,
the “negative externalities” of the resulting overproduction of stuff would
soon be all too apparent. If you’ve seen Pixar’s WALL-E, where humans
are driven from the planet by the overflowing mountains of trash, you
can imagine the problem.
But in the digital realm, where what’s created in abundance is ultimately ephemeral bits of information—electrons, photons, and magnetic
flux—there’s nothing stopping such remarkable doubling laws from playing
out to their full effect. And the consequence is, as Moore himself pointed
out, amazing: “Moore’s law is a violation of Murphy’s law. Everything
gets better and better.”

WHY MOORE’S LAW WORKS
Most industrial processes get better over time and scale through an effect
known as the learning curve. It’s just that those processes based on semiconductors do so much faster and longer.
The term “learning curve” was introduced by the nineteenth-century
German psychologist Hermann Ebbinghaus to describe improvements
he observed when people memorized tasks over many repetitions. But
it soon took on broader meaning. The principle states that the more
times a task has been performed, the less time will be required for each
subsequent iteration. This relationship was first quantified in 1936 at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, where managers recorded that every time
total aircraft production doubled, the required labor time decreased by
10 to 15 percent.
In the late 1960s, the Boston Consulting Group (BCG) started looking

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 67

l

67

at technology industries and saw improvements that were often faster than
simple learning curves could explain. Where the learning curve was mostly
about human learning, these larger effects seemed to have more to do with
scale: As products were manufactured in larger numbers, the costs fell by
a constant and predictable percentage (10 to 25 percent) with every doubling
of volume. BCG called this the “experience curve” to encompass institutional learning, ranging from administrative efficiencies to supply chain
optimization, as well as the individual learning of the workers.
But starting in the 1970s, price declines in the new field of semiconductors seemed to be happening even faster than the experience curve
alone could explain. The original transistors fell at the high end of
the BCG rate and kept on falling. During one decade-long period, the
Fairchild 1211 transistor’s sales increased four thousandfold. That’s
twelve doublings, which experience-curve theory predicts would lead
to a price decline of one-thirtieth the original figure. In fact, the price
fell to one-one-thousandth that number. There was clearly something
more going on.
What’s different about semiconductors is a characteristic of many
high-tech products: They have a very high ratio of brains to brawn. In
economic terms, their inputs are mostly intellectual rather than material.
After all, microchips are just sand (silicon) very cleverly put together. As
George Gilder, the author of Microcosm, puts it:
When matter plays so small a part in production, there is less material
resistance to increased volume. Semiconductors represent the overthrow of
matter in the economy.

In other words, ideas can propagate virtually without limit and without
cost. This, of course, is not new. Indeed, it was Thomas Jefferson, father
of the patent system (and a lot more), who put it better than anyone:
He who receives an idea from me, receives instruction himself without
lessening mine; as he who lights his taper at mine, receives light
without darkening me.

The point: Ideas are the ultimate abundance commodity, which propagates at zero marginal cost. Once created, ideas want to spread far and

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

68

13:48

l

Page 68

CHRIS ANDERSON

wide, enriching everything they touch. (In society, such spreading ideas
are called “memes.”)
But in business, companies make their money by creating an artificial
scarcity in ideas through intellectual property law. That’s what patents,
copyright, and trade secrets are: efforts to hold back the natural flow of
ideas into the population at large long enough to make a profit. They
were created to give inventors an economic incentive to create, a license
to charge monopoly rent for a limited time, so they can get a return on
the work they put into the idea. But ultimately, patents expire and secrets
get out; ideas cannot be held back forever.
And the more products are made of ideas, rather than stuff, the faster
they can get cheap. This is the root of the abundance that leads to Free
in the digital world, which we today shorthand as Moore’s Law.
However, this is not limited to digital products. Any industry where
information becomes the main ingredient will tend to follow this
compound learning curve and accelerate in performance while it drops
in price. Take medicine, which is shifting from “we don’t know why it
works, it just does” (there’s a reason it’s called drug “discovery”) to a process that starts with the first principles of molecular biology (“now we
know why it works”). The underlying science is information, while observed
efficacy is just anecdote. Once you understand the basics, you can create
an abundance of better drugs, faster.
DNA sequencing is falling in price by 50 percent every 1.9 years, and
soon our individual genetic makeup will be another information industry.
More and more medical and diagnostic services will be provided by software (which get cheaper, to the point of being free) as opposed to doctors
(who get more expensive).
Likewise for nanotechnology, which promises to turn manufacturing
into yet another information industry, as custom-designed molecules
self-assemble. As energy shifts from burning fossil fuels to using photovoltaic cells to convert sun into electricity on a utility scale, or designing
enzymes that can convert grass into ethanol, it will be an information
industry, too. In each case, industries that have nothing to do with
computer processing start to show Moore’s Law–like exponential growth
(and price declines) once they, too, become more brains than brawn.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 69

l

69

MEAD’S LAW
As it happens, Gordon Moore did not coin the law named after him. The
man who did, Caltech professor Carver Mead, was the first to focus on
the economic corollary to Moore’s doubling rule for transistor density:
If the amount of computer power for a given cost doubles every two years,
then the cost of a given unit of computing power must halve over the
same period. More importantly, he was the first to really consider what
this meant for how we thought about and used digital technology. And
he realized that we were thinking about it all wrong.
In the late 1970s, Mead was teaching semiconductor design at Caltech,
defining the principles of integrated circuits that would become known
as Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI), which pretty much defined the
world of computing that we have today. Like Moore before him, he could
see that the eighteen-month doublings in performance would continue
to stretch out as far as anyone could see. This was driven not just by the
standard learning and experience curves, but also by what he called the
“compound learning curve,” which is the combination of learning curves
and frequent new inventions.
For more than a half century, semiconductor researchers have come
up with a major innovation every decade or so that kicks the industry into
the sharp-decline part of the curve again. As one production process nears
the tail of its efficiency improvement cycle, the incentive to come up
with something radically new and better increases. And because there is,
as physicist Richard Feynman said, “a lot of room at the bottom” of the
atomic-scale world that opened up with the new physics of the late
twentieth century, researchers have been able to find these new ways with
almost spooky regularity.
Each time, whether it’s a new material, a new etching process, a new
chip architecture, or an entirely new dimension such as parallel processing, the learning curve starts again at its most vertiginous slope. When
you combine all these innovations and learning curves across the entire
computer industry, you end up with a pace of cost decline never before
seen. Transistors, like almost any other unit of computing capacity you
can pick, march inevitably toward a price of zero.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

70

13:48

l

Page 70

CHRIS ANDERSON

What Mead realized is that this economic effect carried with it a
moral imperative. If transistors are becoming too cheap to meter, then
we should stop metering them and otherwise cease thinking about their
cost. We should switch from conserving them on the assumption that they
are a scarce commodity to treating them like the abundant commodity
they are. In other words, we should literally start “wasting” them.
“Waste” is a dirty word, and that was especially true in the IT world
of the 1970s. An entire generation of computer professionals had been
taught that their job was to dole out expensive computer resources
sparingly. In the glass-walled facilities of the mainframe era, these systems
operators exercised their power by choosing whose programs should be
allowed to run on the costly computing machines. Their role was to
conserve transistors, and they not only decided what was worthy but also
encouraged programmers to make the most economical use of their
computer time.
This priesthood—the sysadmins—ruled the early information age. If
you wanted to use a computer, you had to get past them. And that meant
writing a program that conformed to their standards of what was an
appropriate use of IT resources. Software should be focused on business
objectives, efficient in its use of CPU cycles, and modest in its ambitions.
If you passed that test, they might accept your punch cards through the
slot in the door and, two days later, return to you a printout of your error
messages so you could start the process again.
As a result, early developers focused their code on running their core
algorithms efficiently and gave little thought to user interface. This was
the era of the command line, and the job of software was to serve the
central processing unit, not the other way around.
Engineers of the time understood Moore’s Law on one level: They
knew it would bring computers that were smaller and cheaper than the
mainframes of the day. Indeed, it was not too much to imagine computers
becoming so small and cheap that a regular family could have one in
their home. But why would anyone want that? After much pondering, the
computing establishment of the late sixties could think of only one reason:
to organize recipes. The world’s first personal computer, a stylish kitchen
appliance offered by Honeywell in 1969, did just that—and it even came
with integrated counter space. The Honeywell was featured in that year’s

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 71

l

71

Neiman Marcus catalog, selling at the bargain price of $10,600 despite
the fact that the only input method was toggle switches on the front panel
and the housewife would have to speak hexadecimal. It’s unclear whether
anyone ever bought one.
And here was Mead, telling programmers to embrace waste. They
scratched their heads—how do you waste computer power?

THE MOUSE THAT ROARED
It took Alan Kay, an engineer working at Xerox’s Palo Alto Research Center
in the 1970s, to show them the way. Rather than conserve transistors for
core-processing functions, he developed a computer concept—the
Dynabook—that would frivolously deploy silicon to do playful things on
the screen: draw icons, steer pointers with a mouse, divide a screen into
windows, and even add animations for no function other than to look
cool.
The purpose of this profligate eye candy? To make computers easier
to use for regular folks, including children. Kay’s work on the graphical
user interface (GUI) became the inspiration for the Xerox Alto and then
the Apple Macintosh, which changed the world by opening computing
to the rest of us.
What Kay realized was that a technologist’s job is not to figure out
what technology is good for. Instead it is to make technology so cheap,
easy to use, and ubiquitous that anybody can use it, so that it propagates
around the world and into every possible niche. We, the users, will figure
out what to do with it, because each of us is different: different needs,
different ideas, different knowledge, and different ways of interacting with
the world.
Kay, by showing the way to democratize computing, made it possible
to take Moore’s phenomenon out of the glass box and into every home,
car, and pocket. This collective exercise in exploring the potential space
of computing has brought us everything from digital photography to video
games, from TiVos to iPods. (Tellingly, organizing recipes is not high on
many people’s lists.)
The engineers brought us the technical infrastructure of the Internet

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

72

13:48

l

Page 72

CHRIS ANDERSON

and Web—TCP/IP and http://—but we were the ones who figured out
what to do with it. Because the technology was free and open to all, we,
the users, experimented with it and together we populated it with our
content, our ideas, and ourselves. The technologists invented the pot, but
we filled it.
Of course, cheap technology is not free technology. Powerful computers
were expensive in Kay’s day, and they remain expensive today, as the poor
CIO who just shelled out six figures to buy another rack of servers will
be the first to tell you. Technology sure doesn’t feel free when you’re
buying it by the gross. Yet if you look at it from the other side of the fat
pipe, the economics change. That expensive bank of hard drives (high
fixed costs) can serve tens of thousands of users (low marginal costs).
Today’s Web is all about scale, finding ways to attract the most users
for centralized resources, spreading those costs over larger and larger
audiences as the technology gets more and more capable. It’s not about
the cost of the equipment in the racks at the data center; it’s about what
that equipment can do. And every year, like some sort of magic clockwork, it does more and more for less and less, bringing the marginal costs
of technology in the units that we individuals consume closer to zero.
What Mead and Kay anticipated had a profound effect on computationbased industries. It meant software writers, liberated from worrying about
scarce computational resources like memory and CPU cycles, could
become more and more ambitious, focusing on higher-order functions
such as user interfaces and new markets such as entertainment. The result
was software of broader appeal, which brought in more users, who in turn
found even more uses for computers. Thanks to that wasteful throwing
of transistors against the wall, the world was changed.
What’s interesting is that transistors (or storage, or bandwidth) don’t have
to be completely free to invoke this effect. At a certain point, they’re cheap
enough to be safely disregarded. The Greek philosopher Zeno wrestled
with this concept in a slightly different context. In Zeno’s dichotomy
paradox, you run toward a wall. As you run, you halve the distance to the
wall, then halve it again, and so on. But if you continue to subdivide
space forever, how can you ever actually reach the wall? (The answer is
that you can’t: Once you’re within a few nanometers, atomic repulsion
forces become too strong for you to get any closer. As for the apparent

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 73

l

73

mathematical paradox, Newton solved that with the invention of integral
calculus.)
In economics, the parallel is this: If the unitary cost of technology
(“per megabyte” or “per megabit per second” or “per thousand floatingpoint operations per second”) is halving every eighteen months, when
does it come close enough to zero to say that you’ve arrived and can safely
round down to nothing? The answer: almost always sooner than you think.
What Mead understood was that a psychological switch should flip as
things head toward zero. Even though they may never become entirely
free, as the price drops there is great advantage to be had in treating them
as if they were free. Not too cheap to meter, as Strauss foretold, but too
cheap to matter.

IRON AND GLASS
The story of the semiconductor has largely become the fable for the
digital economy, but as I noted above, the truth is that two related technologies—storage and bandwidth—have outpaced it in the race to the
bottom.
The first, digital storage, is based not on etching silicon into finer and
finer lines, but instead on getting magnetic particles on a metal platter
to lie one way or another. This is the way the hard drive in your personal
computer works: A tiny electromagnet floats a few atoms’ width above a
spinning disk and traces out spirals on that disk, flipping the magnetic
particles underneath to represent 1s or 0s (put enough of them together
and you’ve got that PowerPoint you’ve been working on or video you just
downloaded). The way to pack more bits onto a platter is to make those
tracks smaller, which is done by having a tinier, higher-power head floating
even closer to a disk made up of even smaller, more highly magnetized
particles.
This is largely a matter of mechanical assemblies with a precision that
puts a Swiss watch to shame, along with a platter made of ferrous (iron)
materials that can hold intense magnetic fields. Even though storage is
based on different physics than semiconductors, Mead’s compound learning
curves hold sway. It really has very little to do with the semiconductor

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

74

13:48

l

Page 74

CHRIS ANDERSON

effects that Moore was observing, and yet data storage capacity is increasing
(and the costs falling) even faster than Moore’s Law. Once again the ratio
of thought to stuff is high, and the innovations frequent.
The second, bandwidth, taps yet another domain of physics and
materials science. Sending data long distances is mostly a matter of
photons, not electrons. Optical switches convert the on/off bits of binary
code into pulses of laser light at different frequencies, and those “lambdas”
(the Greek letter used to denote wavelength) travel in threads of glass so
pure that the light bounces off the internal walls for hundreds of miles
without loss or distortion.
Here the science is optics, not materials science or mechanical precision.
Yet the ratio of intellectual ingredients to physical ones is once again high,
so the innovations continue to come frequently to restart the improvement
cycle. Again following Mead’s compound learning curves, fiber-optic
networks and optical switching are improving even faster than processing
and storage, with an estimated doubling in price/performance every year.

WHAT ABUNDANCE CAN DO
Bandwidth that’s too cheap to meter brought us YouTube, which is quickly
revolutionizing (some say destroying) the traditional television industry.
Storage that’s too cheap to meter brought us Gmail and its infinite inbox,
to say nothing of TiVo, Flickr, MySpace, and the iPod.
Before the iPod, nobody was asking to carry an entire music collection
in a pocket. But engineers at Apple understood the economics of storage
abundance. They could see that disk drives were gaining capacity for the
same price even faster than computer processors. Demand for storing
massive catalogs of music wasn’t driving this—physics and engineering
were. But the Apple engineers “listened to the technology,” to use Mead’s
phrase.
They paid particular attention to a 2000 announcement by Toshiba
that it would soon be able to make a 1.8-inch hard disk that could store
five gigabytes. How much storage capacity is that? Well, if you do the
math, that’s enough to store a thousand songs on a drive smaller than a
deck of playing cards. So Apple simply did what the technology enabled

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 75

l

75

and released that product. Supply created its own demand—consumers
may not have thought about carrying their entire music libraries around
with them, but when offered the opportunity to do so, the advantages
became immediately obvious. Why predict what you’re going to want to
listen to and upload just that, when you can have it all?
Now that this triple play of technologies—processing, storage, and
bandwidth—has combined to form the Web, the abundances have been
compounded. One of the dot-com jokes from the late-nineties bubble
was that there are only two numbers on the Internet: infinity and zero.
The first, at least as it applied to stock market valuations, proved false.
But the second is alive and well. The Web has become the land of the
free, not because of ideology but because of economics. Price has fallen
to the marginal cost, and the marginal cost of everything online is close
enough to zero that it pays to round down.
Just as the computer industry took decades to understand the implications of Moore’s observation, it will take decades more to understand
the compounded consequences of the Internet’s connecting processing
to bandwidth and storage, the two other horsemen of the zerosphere.
When Lewis Strauss predicted electricity would become too cheap to
meter, it already touched every part of the economy. It was mind-blowing
to imagine what such abundance might bring. Now information touches
nearly as much of the economy as electricity.
Information is how money flows; aside from the cash in your wallet,
that’s what money is—just bits. Information is how we communicate, as
every call is turned into data the moment the words leave our lips. It’s the
TV and movies we watch and the music we listen to—born digital, and
thus transforming like everything else in the world of bits, changing how
it’s made and how we consume it. Even electricity itself is increasingly
becoming an information industry, both in the dispatching core of the
grid and at its edge, as “smart grids” turn one-way networks interactive,
soon to be regulating demand and both sending and receiving electrons
from solar panels and electric cars.
Everything that bits touch is also touched by their unique economic
properties—cheaper, better, faster. Make a burglar alarm digital, and now
it’s just another sensor and communications node on the Internet, with
abundant storage, bandwidth, and processing added essentially for free.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

76

13:48

l

Page 76

CHRIS ANDERSON

This is why there is such an incentive to turn things digital: They can
suddenly be part of something bigger, something not just operating faster,
but accelerating.
Bits are industrial steroids in the same way that electricity was—they
make everything cost less and do more. The difference is that they keep
working their improvement magic year after year. Not a one-time transformation like electricity, but a continuing revolution, with each new
generation of half-the-price, twice-the-performance opening up entirely
new possibilities.
But what about that first lesson from economics class, that price is set
by supply and demand, not science? Have no fear—that still holds. Supply
and demand determine the price for any of these commodities at any
given moment. But the long-term pricing trends are determined by the
technology itself—the more there is of a commodity, the cheaper it will be.
Say’s Law (named after the early-nineteenth-century French economist
Jean-Baptiste Say) states that “supply creates its own demand,” which is
another way of saying that if you make a million times as many transistors,
the world will find a use for them.
At any given time, the world may want slightly more or slightly less
than is currently being produced, and the instantaneous price will reflect
that, rising or falling with supply and demand. But in the long term,
falling costs of production ensure that the overall trend is down, with
momentary supply/demand imbalances just introducing ripples in a line
that’s inevitably heading toward zero.
So today an entire economy has been built on compound learning
curves. It’s an astounding thing, one that has taken a generation to
understand and will take generations more to fully exploit. But the first
recognition of its implications came not from economists but rather from
the radical underground of . . . model train hobbyists.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 77

6
“INFORMATION WANTS TO BE FREE”
THE HISTORY OF A PHRASE THAT
DEFINED THE DIGITAL AGE

In 1984, journalist Steven Levy published Hackers: Heroes of the Computer
Revolution, which chronicled the scruffy subculture that had not only
created the personal computer (and eventually the Internet) but also the
unique social ethos that came with it. He listed seven principles of the
“hacker ethic”:

1. Access to computers—and anything that might
teach you something about the way the world works—
should be unlimited and total.
2. Always yield to the Hands-on Imperative!
3. All information should be free.
4. Mistrust authority—promote decentralization.
5. Hackers should be judged by their hacking, not
bogus criteria such as degrees, age, race, or position.
6. You can create art and beauty on a computer.
7. Computers can change your life for the better.
Number three, which dates back to 1959, is originally credited to Peter
Samson of MIT’s Tech Model Railroad Club. The TMRC was the

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

78

13:48

l

Page 78

CHRIS ANDERSON

ultimate proto-geek community and perhaps the nerdiest group of humans
who had ever assembled to date. Its Wikipedia entry explains why they
mattered:
The club was composed of two groups: those who were interested in the
modeling and landscaping, and those who comprised the Signals and Power
Subcommittee and created the circuits that made the trains run. The latter
would be among the ones who popularized the term “hacker” among many
other slang terms, and who eventually moved on to computers and
programming. They were initially drawn to the IBM 704, the multimilliondollar mainframe that was operated at Building 26, but access and time to
the mainframe was restricted to more important people. The group really
began being involved with computers when Jack Dennis, a former member,
introduced them to the TX-0, a three-million-dollar computer on longterm-loan from Lincoln Laboratory. They would usually stake out the place
where the TX-0 was housed until late in the night in hopes that someone
who had signed up for computer time did not show up.

Levy’s book wound up on the radar of Kevin Kelly, who would later
become the executive editor of Wired magazine (and who remains our
“Senior Maverick” and advisor) and Stewart Brand, one-time Merry
Prankster and creator of the Whole Earth Catalog, perhaps the most
influential publication birthed by the counterculture, which was edited
by Kelly. In 1983, Brand received an advance of $1.3 million to establish
a Whole Earth Software Catalog. The idea was for the book to emerge
as the torchbearer for the burgeoning PC culture much in the same way
the Whole Earth Catalog had for the DIY back-to-the-landers of the late
1960s and early 1970s.
Once they found Levy’s book, Brand and Kelly decided to hold a conference to bring together the three generations of hackers. As Kelly later told
Stanford communication professor Fred Turner, he and Brand wanted to
see whether hacking was “a precursor to a larger culture” and they hoped
to “witness or have the group articulate what the hacker ethic was.”
In November 1984, around 150 hackers trekked to Fort Cronkhite,
nestled in the Marin Headlands north of the Golden Gate Bridge. In
attendance for the weekend-long conference were Apple’s Steve Wozniak,
Ted Nelson (one of the inventors of hypertext), Richard Stallman (the

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 79

l

79

MIT computer scientist who later founded the Free Software Foundation),
and John Draper, aka “Captain Crunch” because he discovered one could
make free phone calls by using a toy whistle that came bundled (for free!)
in a cereal box. Along with meals and beds, Brand and Kelly provided
the hackers with computers and audiovisual equipment.
Two topics continually cropped up in the conversations: how to characterize the “hacker ethic” and what types of businesses were emerging
within the computer industry. It was then that Brand restated rule three
in a way that would come to define the budding digital age. He said:
On the one hand information wants to be expensive, because it’s so valuable. The right information in the right place just changes your life. On
the other hand, information wants to be free, because the cost of getting it
out is getting lower and lower all the time. So you have these two fighting
against each other.

This is probably the most important—and misunderstood—sentence
of the Internet economy.
What’s especially important about this quote is that it establishes
the economic link between technology and ideas. Moore’s Law is about
the physical machinery of computing. But information is the weightless
commodity on which that machinery acts. Physics determined that a transistor would someday be practically free. But the value of the bits the
transistor processed—information—well, that could have gone either way.
Perhaps information would become cheaper, because the bits could
be reproduced so easily. Or perhaps it would become more expensive,
because the perfect processing of computers could make information of
higher quality. In fact, it was exactly this question that led to Brand’s
comment, which addresses both extremes.
Usually the only part of that quote that is remembered is “information
wants to be free,” which is significantly different from the original
Samson quote on Levy’s list in two ways. First, Samson meant “free” as
in “unrestricted”—those were the days of the mainframe, and the big
issue was who could get access to the machine. Brand, however, had
evolved the meaning to the one of this book—free as in zero price.
The second difference is that Brand turned Samson’s “should” into
“wants to be.” Much of the force of Brand’s formulation is due to the

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

80

13:48

l

Page 80

CHRIS ANDERSON

anthropomorphic metaphor that imputes desire to information, rather
than projecting a political stance (“should”) upon it. This value-neutral
phrasing wrestled “free” away from the hacker zealots such as Stallman,
who wanted to protect an ideology of forced openness, and expressed it
as a simple force of nature. Information wants to be free in the same way
that life wants to spread and water wants to run downhill.
This quote is misunderstood because it is only half-remembered.
Brand’s other half—“information wants to be expensive, because it’s so
valuable”—is ignored, perhaps because it seems both paradoxical and
tautological. Perhaps a better way to understand it is this:
Commodity information (everybody gets the same version) wants to be free.
Customized information (you get something unique and meaningful to
you) wants to be expensive.

But even that’s not quite right. After all, what is a Google search if not
a unique and customized sort of the Web, tailored just for you to be a
meaningful response to your query? So let’s try again:
Abundant information wants to be free. Scarce information wants to be
expensive.

In this case we’re using the marginal cost construction of “abundant” and
“scarce”: Information that can be replicated and distributed at low marginal
cost wants to be free; information with high marginal costs wants to be
expensive. So you can read a copy of this book online (abundant,
commodity information) for free, but if you want me to fly to your city
and prepare a custom talk on Free as it applies to your business, I’ll be
happy to, but you’re going to have to pay me for my (scarce) time. I’ve
got a lot of kids and college isn’t getting any cheaper.

BRAND EXPLAINS
But that’s just my interpretation. Given the impact of his prophecy, I went
to Brand directly to better understand the context and meaning as he
intended it.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 81

l

81

My first questions pertained to the particular phrasing of his legendary
remark. First, why did he change the hacker imperative that information
“should” be free to “wants to”?
Two reasons, he said. First, from a semantic perspective, it just sounded
better: “It’s poetical and mythical and it gets away from the finger-wagging
‘should.’ ” But the second reason is more important: “It flips the perspective from yourself to the phenomenon, and the phenomenon is that value
is coming from this peculiar form of sharing.” In other words, it’s more
a function of information than it is a decision that you or I make about
it. It really doesn’t matter what our particular philosophy is about charging
for or giving away information, the underlying economics of information
clearly favor the second option.
My next question in the deconstruction of this sentence was about the
oft-forgotten second part. Why did he construct this duality of “free” and
“expensive”?
He said he was drawn to the paradox of information being pulled in
both extremes:
In arguments I was hearing about intellectual property, both sides made
perfect sense, and that is the definition of a paradox. Paradoxes drive the
things we care about. Marriage is a paradox: I can’t live with her, and I
can’t live without her. Both statements are true. And the dynamic between
those two statements is what keeps marriage interesting, among other things.
Paradoxes are the opposite of contradictions. Contradictions shut themselves down, but paradoxes keep themselves going, because every time you
acknowledge the truth of one side you’re going to get caught from behind
by the truth on the other side.
At the conference there were some people who were distributing free shareware, and others who were selling copy-controlled enterprise software for
thousands of dollars. So the price that you could charge for this stuff was still
in the process of being discovered, and the price kept going both higher and
lower. In other words, the market never cleared in any normal sense. People
were charging whatever the traffic would bear, and the traffic put up with all
kinds of very weird prices. You could hold corporations up like a total bandit.

Another subtlety in the sentence is his use of the word “information.”
This is a relatively modern use of the term, which dates to Claude

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

82

13:48

l

Page 82

CHRIS ANDERSON

Shannon’s famous 1948 paper on information theory. Before that people
generally used different words (or no word at all) to describe the particular phenomenon of ideas or instructions encased in code. (Indeed, in
his 1939 writings on his emerging ideas, Shannon himself used the word
“intelligence” instead.) One of those words people used was, of course,
“language,” but others included “symbols” and “signs.” Until the information age, the word “information” was usually used in the context of
news: “I’ve got some new information.” Or simply, “facts.”
Shannon worked at AT&T, and his theory was based in a context of
signal processing. It defined information as the opposite of noise—coherent
versus incoherent signals—and he calculated how to extract one from
the other. That can be done in the form of analog or digital signals, but
today when we talk about information, we’re usually talking about digital
bits: those on/off signals that mean nothing or everything, depending on
how we decode them.
A word processor thinks your MP3 file is just noise, and your TiVo
can’t read a spreadsheet, but from an information perspective, they’re all
the same thing: a stream of bits. A bit reflects just the difference between
two states, which may or may not have meaning. But information is what
British anthropologist Gregory Bateson described as “a difference that
makes a difference.”
When Brand used the word “information” he meant digitally encoded
information, and what this reflected was his experience with early digital
networks, including the one he cofounded, the Whole Earth ’Lectric Link
(WELL). What he had learned from them was that the bits and their
meaning were entirely different things. The bits were, economically at
least, virtually free, but their meaning could have a wide range of value,
from nothing to priceless, depending on who was receiving them.
“One of the things that I used as a model of the WELL was the telephone company,” he explained. “It does not sell you conversation. They
really do not care what anybody says to each other. All they want is to
have you pay your bill for having the phone working, and a certain amount
of time on it. Content is irrelevant.”
The physical world analogy, he said, is a pub. It provides a place for
community and conversation, but it doesn’t charge for that. It just charges
for the beer that lubricates it. “You find that something else to charge for,

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 83

l

83

whether it’s the steins of beer or the dial tone, or some other equivalent,
like adjacent advertising. You always wind up charging for something
different than the information.”
And does it annoy him that for twenty-five years, people have been
quoting only half of his phrase? That’s what happens to memes, he says:
They propagate in their most efficient form, whether that was what was
intended or not. After all, he notes, Winston Churchill did not say,
“Blood, sweat, and tears.” Winston Churchill said, “Blood, sweat, toil, and
tears.” That may sound better, but one of them is not a juice. Mimetic
propagation edited the phrase to its optimal form.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 84

7
COMPETING WITH FREE
MICROSOFT LEARNED HOW TO DO IT OVER
DECADES, BUT YAHOO HAD JUST MONTHS

On February 3, 1975, Bill Gates, then “General Partner, Micro-Soft”

wrote an “Open Letter to Hobbyists,” explaining that his new company
had spent $40,000 developing software that was being copied for free. If
this continued, he warned, he would be unable to develop new software
in the future and everyone would lose:
As the majority of hobbyists must be aware, most of you steal your software.
Hardware must be paid for, but software is something to share. Who cares
if the people who worked on it get paid?

Eventually, it worked. As the personal computer moved from the geeky
world of hobbyists to regular users who were less adept at copying software, the notion that code should be paid for became accepted. Along
with the Apple II and IBM PC came the rise of stores that sold software
in boxes, complete with instruction manuals. Software became an industry
and Microsoft, now without a hyphen, grew rich.
But its days of competing with Free were not over. Piracy never
completely went away, and once software moved from hard-to-copy
floppy disks to CDs, which could be duplicated the same way music
CDs were, it boomed. Microsoft added security codes that users would

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 85

l

85

get in the official packaging, but the pirates just copied them, too, along
with the holograms on the packaging. Lawsuits, awareness campaigns,
industry trade groups, and even diplomatic action kept piracy in check
in the developed world, but in the developing world it ran wild.
In China, the fast-growing PC market was turbocharged by the pirates
who sold not just Microsoft’s software but everyone else’s, too, from games
to educational programs. Officially, Microsoft took a hard line against this.
But Gates and Co. were realists, too. They knew that piracy of their products was impossible to wipe out entirely, and that any attempt to do so
would be both expensive and painful for their paying customers, who
would have to jump through all sorts of verification hoops. And it wasn’t
all bad: If people were pirating the software, they were at least using it,
and this mind-share could someday translate into real-market share once
these countries developed.
“Although 3 million computers get sold each year in China, people
don’t pay for our software,” Gates said in 1998 to a group of students at
the University of Washington. “Someday they will, though, and as long
as they’re going to steal it, we want them to steal ours. They’ll get sort of
addicted, and then we’ll somehow figure out how to collect sometime in
the next decade.”
Now that time is coming. China got richer, computers got cheaper (the
hottest category is now “netbooks,” stripped-down laptops that cost as little
as $250), and Microsoft lowered its prices for operating systems on such
machines to around $20 (less than a quarter what it charges for the usual
versions). Piracy created dependency and helped lower the cost of adoption when it mattered. Today, after a few decades of piracy, you’ve got a
huge paid market in China alongside the pirate one, continued Microsoft
dominance, and consumers who have more money and less tolerance for
the hassles that come with unauthorized software. Gates’s strategy of doing
just enough to keep piracy to a dull roar, rather than imposing the brutal
things that would have been required to actually eliminate it, paid off.
FREE TRIALS
In the 1990s, while Microsoft was fighting piracy abroad, it was competing
with a different kind of Free at home. Having won the operating system

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

86

13:48

l

Page 86

CHRIS ANDERSON

wars, it was battling to maintain its lead with applications software, from
word processors to spreadsheets. Competitors such as WordPerfect Office
and Lotus SmartSuite charged PC makers rock-bottom prices to have
their software “bundled” with new computers. The hope was that new
PC consumers would use the software that came with the machine,
investing in the programs with their learning and files, and when it came
time to upgrade to a paid version they’d be hooked.
This slowed Microsoft’s market share growth enough to worry Gates.
He decided to respond in kind. Microsoft developed its own strippeddown version of Office, called Microsoft Works, which it charged PC
makers just $10 to bundle with new computers. This effectively matched
the low price offered by competitors, and because Works was filecompatible with full-blown Office, it was a way to keep consumers in the
Microsoft sphere of influence, even if the company wasn’t making much
money from the entry-level product.
This same strategy served Microsoft as the world moved from the desktop
to the Web. Netscape released its Web browser, Navigator, for free, instantaneously de-monetizing that nascent industry. What’s worse, Netscape’s
free browser was meant to work best with its own proprietary Web server
software, in an effort to cut away at Microsoft’s lucrative server operating
system market.
Once again, Microsoft was forced to respond. It quickly developed its
own free Web browser, Internet Explorer, and bundled it with every
version of its operating system. This had the desired effect of checking
Netscape’s growth, but Microsoft paid the price with a decade of antitrust prosecutions and fines for anticompetitive behavior. Trust busters
attacked it for “tying” a free product to a paid one. Free is fine, the regulators said, but not if you’re a monopoly and are using Free to keep
competitors out.
In antitrust theory, because the dominant company in the market has
unmatchable ability to subsidize a free product with a paid one (on which
they may be extracting monopoly rents), they have to be more careful in
how they use Free. In the end, Microsoft was allowed to continue to bundle
free software, from the browser to backup utilities, with its operating
systems, but the cost was hundreds of millions of dollars in fines, legal
fees, and damage to the company’s reputation.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 87

l

87

THE PENGUIN ATTACKS
Another form of free software is open source, something Microsoft has
been competing with for decades, although not always by that name. Until
1998, software that people could use and modify without charge was called
“free software” or “freeware,” and ranged from operating systems (such as
variants of UNIX) to word processors and programming languages. But
with the rise of the Web as a communications platform, the informal
communities of programmers who write this code became larger and more
effective. Special licenses were created that allowed software to spread and
attract more contributors. Free software became a force to be reckoned
with.
Netscape’s 1998 decision to publicly release the Netscape browser code
was the catalyst that took free software mainstream. In a meeting convened later that year by publisher Tim O’Reilly, a consensus emerged
around the term “open source.” This had the main advantage of not using
the word “free,” which had been muddied by the ideological extremism
of Richard Stallman, the former MIT firebrand whose Free Software
Foundation had been trying to push the movement toward his own anticapitalist views.
Present at the meeting was Linus Torvalds, then twenty-nine. Seven
years earlier, in Helsinki, he had started work on a modest project to
create a simplified variation of the UNIX operating system that he called
Linux. Due to a combination of good code, his winning personality and
organization skills, and, most importantly, the Web as a vehicle of global
collaboration, it took off (fear of Microsoft’s domination and the general
anti-Redmond sentiment of software purists didn’t hurt, either).
By the time of the O’Reilly meeting Linux was already seen as the poster
child for this new class of software, an example of functional, popular code
that was built on a license that required anybody who used and changed
the software to make those changes free and open to all. Anybody could
sell the software if they wanted to, but they couldn’t own it.
Initially, Linux was mostly competing with other variants of UNIX,
from the free ones to Sun’s and IBM’s commercial versions. But its success,
both in its technical abilities and its extraordinary harnessing of free talent

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

88

13:48

l

Page 88

CHRIS ANDERSON

and labor, was starting to register in Redmond, too, where Microsoft was
sitting happily on a multibillion-dollar market for server operating system
software.
In interviewing Microsoft executives about how the company figured
out how to compete effectively with open source, one of the most startling
things for me was how late the dates begin. Although the company had
been aware of Linux from the beginning and its marketers had been
dismissing it publicly since the late 1990s, within Microsoft it was seen
as just another gnat on its hide; not serious enough to cause a shift of
strategy. The company pegs Linux World 2002, a conference that was
held in September of that year, as the beginning of what program manager
Peter Houston calls the “engage Linux credibly” strategy.
As a point of reference, that epiphany was more than a decade after
Torvalds started the Linux project and four years after O’Reilly’s open
source summit. It was three years after the “Linux bubble” of companies
such as VA Linux and Redhat that went public on NASDAQ and saw
their shares skyrocket. And, by 2002, the Linux market share of the Web
server operating system market stood at about 25 percent, compared to
Microsoft’s 50 percent.
The story of why this took so long and what happened next can best
be told through psychiatrist Elisabeth Kübler-Ross’s Five Stages of Grief.

STAGE 1: DENIAL
Where had Microsoft been for Linux’s first decade? Mostly hoping the
free operating system would go away or remain insignificant, like most
other free software had to date. Even if it didn’t disappear completely,
Microsoft executives hoped the appeal of Linux would be mostly to people
who already used UNIX, rather than Microsoft’s own operating systems.
That wasn’t entirely reassuring—those UNIX customers were a market
Microsoft wanted, too—but it was better than direct competition. But
more than anything else, Microsoft managers were confused by why any
customer would want free software and all the headaches that came with
products not polished to a professional sheen.
But the customers did, especially as they built larger and larger data

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 89

l

89

centers to run the fast-growing Web. Maintaining one Linux server might
be harder than its equivalent Microsoft counterpart, but if you’re going
to deploy hundreds or thousands, learning the quirks of Linux once could
save a huge amount of money down the road. By 2003, Linux’s share of
the Web server market had grown closer to one-third. One way to stem
the tide would have been to match the Linux price: zero. But that was
simply too scary to contemplate. Instead, Microsoft mostly sniped from
the sidelines.
Within the company, some engineers were already warning that Linux
represented a long-term competitive threat to Microsoft’s core business
model and arguing that the company had to mount a more credible
response. In 1998, one programmer circulated a memo describing open
source software as a “direct revenue and platform threat to Microsoft.”
The document, which was leaked and circulated as the “Halloween memo”
(both for when it was leaked and the scary nature of its contents), goes
on to warn that the “free idea exchange in OSS has benefits that are not
replicable with our current licensing model and therefore present a long
term developer mindshare threat.”
But in public, Microsoft was taking a very different stance. One news
report from December 1998 goes like this: “Microsoft executives dismiss
open-source as hype: ‘Complex future projects [will] require big teams
and big capital,’ said Ed Muth, a Microsoft group marketing manager.
‘These are things that Robin Hood and his merry band in Sherwood Forest
aren’t well attuned to do.’ ”

STAGE 2: ANGER
Once it became clear that Linux was not only here to stay, but really
competing with Microsoft’s product, the company turned hostile. Sure,
Linux was free, salespeople told wavering customers: “Free like a puppy.”
Visions of a lifetime of dog food, poop, and twice-a day walks froze them
in their tracks.
Microsoft decided to make economics the attack strategy. The key
phrase would be “total cost of ownership.” The real cost of software was
not its price, but its upkeep. Linux, they argued, was harder to support,

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

90

13:48

l

Page 90

CHRIS ANDERSON

and the suckers who went for it would pay every day for the armies of
programmers and IT people they’d need to keep this bag of bolts working.
In October 1999, Microsoft took the gloves off and published a document titled “Five Linux Myths.” It cataloged technical deficiencies
and concluded that Linux’s performance didn’t stand up to Microsoft
products. And free wasn’t really free. “Linux system administrators must
spend huge amounts of time understanding the latest Linux bugs and
determining what to do about them,” it warned. “The Linux community
will talk about the free or low-cost nature of Linux. It’s important to understand that licensing cost is only a small part of the overall decision-making
process for customers.”
However, it wasn’t working—in the absence of proof, customers
dismissed this as more Microsoft FUD (fear, uncertainty, and doubt).
Linux and other open source software projects such as the Apache Web
server, MySQL database, and Perl and Python programming languages
continued to gain ground. In November 2002, a frustrated Windows
program manager fired off a memo to Microsoft’s public relations department: “We need to more effectively respond to press reports regarding
Governments and other major institutions considering [open source] alternatives to our products. . . . We must be prepared to respond . . . quickly
and with facts to counter the perception that large institutions are deploying
[open source software] or Linux, when they are only considering or just
piloting the technology.”

STAGE 3: BARGAINING
By the time the 2002 Linux World arrived, it was clear within Microsoft
that they needed a new strategy. IBM had already created a Linux division
and assigned its engineers to start writing code for the project. It was time
for Microsoft to turn down its customary stream of vitriol and face the
facts: Linux wasn’t going away, and customer anger with Microsoft’s
tactics was part of the reason why. “We realized that we had to take
the emotion out of it if we expected anyone to take us seriously,” says
Houston, who ran Microsoft’s team working on competing with Linux.
“As it was, everything we said just dug our hole deeper, to the delight of

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 91

l

91

our competition.” At Linux World, the Microsoft representatives wore
T shirts that said “Let’s Talk.”
After the conference, Houston understood why Microsoft hadn’t been
getting traction. “We needed to prove what we’d been saying: that Linux
had higher cost of ownership.” So he commissioned an independent study
by IDC, a consultancy, to find out if Windows really was better than
Linux when total cost of ownership was factored in. The results came
back as a clear win for Microsoft, but the executives were torn as to
whether they should use the report or not. After they had claimed the
same with less evidence for so long, would this change anybody’s mind?
Perhaps not, but it did win Microsoft a place at the table. Customers
realized that Microsoft was not just spinning—Linux really was more
complicated and costly than it looked. Meanwhile, Microsoft decided to
dip its own toes in the openness waters. It announced a “shared source”
program by which government customers could see the underlying code
for Windows and other Microsoft products. If one of the appeals of open
source was transparency, Microsoft would provide it—but only after
swearing the customers to secrecy and otherwise ensuring that the code
didn’t leak. A few government buyers went through the process, but it
hardly made a dent in the Linux moment. It was time to do something
more radical.

STAGE 4: DEPRESSION
In late 2003, Microsoft surprised everyone by hiring Bill Hilf, who had
run IBM’s successful Linux strategy. During the recruiting process Steve
Ballmer, Microsoft’s CEO, told him, “We have to have an answer to Free.”
Nothing the company had done so far had stemmed the tide, and when
Hilf arrived and started talking to engineers, he could see why. “In my
interviews it was clear that they had no idea how open source worked,”
he said. “There was massive misunderstanding—they saw it as only a
threat.”
One of the reasons Microsoft seemed so ill-informed about open source
was that its lawyers had forbidden its engineers from working with it.
The license that Linux and similar open source software uses, known as

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

92

13:48

l

Page 92

CHRIS ANDERSON

the GPL (general public license), requires that every “derivative work” of
open source software also be open source. The lawyers decided that this
made it a virus: Any Microsoft programmer who touched it might be at
risk of infecting anything else he or she worked on, with a possibility that
one mistake could even accidentally open-source Windows.
So when Hilf wanted to build an open source lab at Microsoft, it
was treated like a biohazard facility. The buildings department punched
a hole in a former storeroom and let him thread network cables through.
But after that he was on his own, without a budget. Hilf had to use recycled
computers and circulate a “Help Bill” campaign to get spare equipment.
Anybody who worked on open source couldn’t work on any other Microsoft
project, for fear of spreading the GPL disease. The Seattle Post-Intelligencer
called him “the loneliest man in Redmond.”

STAGE 5: ACCEPTANCE
Today Hilf’s open source lab is full of humming, high-end servers,
purchased new. He has a budget and a staff of programmers working on
open source projects. What changed? Pragmatism at the top. Gates and
Ballmer had taken their best shot at Linux and it was only getting stronger.
It was time for Microsoft to adapt to the new reality. Microsoft’s position
is now that it has to “interoperate with free,” which is to ensure that its
software works with open source and vice versa. Its programmers get around
the lawyers’ fears by only submitting “patches,” rather than working on
core open source code.
The market share numbers tell the story. Microsoft still has the largest
market share in servers, and Linux is still just around 20 percent. In other
markets, such as desktop operating systems and office suites, Microsoft’s
share is closer to 80 percent. The market has decided that there’s a place
for all three models: totally free, free software and paid support, and good
old pay for everything.
Smaller users, from Web start-ups to price-sensitive individuals, often
choose open source software, which gets better and better every day. But
big companies care more about minimizing risk: They’re willing to pay
for their software, either from Microsoft or from commercial Linux

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 93

l

93

distributions such as Red Hat, because when they write a check they get
a contract. And with that contract comes “service level agreements,” which
is another way of saying that when things don’t work, they’ve got someone
to call.
Today, both open and closed source are huge markets. In dollar terms,
Microsoft’s revenues dwarf any of its open source competitors. But in
terms of users, it’s a lot closer. The Firefox browser, for instance, continues
to gain on Microsoft’s IE (it now has about 30 percent of the market),
and the nonprofit company that makes it, Mozilla, funds the browser’s
development almost entirely with a cut of Google’s ad revenues when
people use the Firefox search bar, which sends them to Google’s search
result page. Mozilla’s staff is fewer than a hundred people, yet it’s running
circles around Microsoft’s browser team. It’s another business built on
Free, no tie-in to a commercial operating system required.
Meanwhile, most of the big Web sites, from Google to Amazon, are
running primarily on open source software. Even in the most staid companies, open source is creeping in with languages such as Java and PHP.
It’s a hybrid world, with free and paid coexisting. The lesson from
Microsoft’s history is that’s not only possible, it’s likely. One size doesn’t
fit all.

CASE TWO: YAHOO VS. GOOGLE
On April 1, 2004, Google issued a press release announcing a new Web
mail service, called Gmail. Given Google’s track record of gag announcements on April Fool’s Day, there was some question as to whether this
was for real.
But six miles south of the Googleplex, at the Yahoo headquarters, there
was no doubt that Google was dead serious. Yahoo executives had been
expecting this day for years, since they first got wind that Google was planning to launch an email product and had registered gmail.com.
Yahoo was by far the largest Web mail provider, with around 125
million users. It was a good business. Most people used the free version,
which offered ten megabytes of storage. If people wanted more, they could
pay for various premium services from twenty-five megabytes to one

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

94

13:48

l

Page 94

CHRIS ANDERSON

hundred megabytes and avoid advertisements. The business was profitable,
and Yahoo was increasing its lead over competitors such as Microsoft
and AOL.
But in early 2004 the rumors of Google’s intention to enter the market
were disquieting. It was not just that everything Google touched seemed
to turn to gold, but the word was that Google was going to launch with
one gigabyte of storage (one thousand megabytes) free—one hundred
times what Yahoo offered.
Yahoo executives Dan Rosensweig, Brad Garlinghouse, and Dave
Nakayama huddled to consider their options. They had to do something—
Google had terrifying momentum and was big enough to take a huge chunk
of the email business if it wanted to. And if Gmail was really going to offer
a gigabyte for free, it could be potentially ruinous for Yahoo to match.
The problem is a classic one in Free. It’s easier for the newcomers
than for incumbents. That’s not just because the incumbents have a
revenue stream that they’re in danger of cannibalizing. It’s also that they
have a lot more users, and the costs of serving millions of customers can
be astronomical.
Google had no email customers, so it could offer a gigabyte of storage
without bearing any real cost: A few servers should handle the first few
thousand customers (and, as it turned out, Google would keep the service
invitation-only for its first year, ensuring that it could handle the demand
without having to buy a lot of hardware). Yahoo, on the other hand, had
millions of customers. If it offered the same thing, it might have to buy
a warehouse of servers to satisfy the increased demand for email storage.
The more the Yahoo executives thought about it, the worse it looked.
Would their premium subscription business, which was bringing in direct
revenues, not just advertising, vaporize when people could get ten times
as much storage for free? Would people abuse the system, using all the
capacity Yahoo offered them as a form of free backup? And, worst of all,
they realized that they probably couldn’t just match Google—to maintain
their lead they would have to offer even more.
The executives imagined the building full of “spinning disks”—the
most expensive kind of storage, from the hardware to the electricity costs—
that they would have to buy just to counter Google’s press release. It was
depressing—and unfair. But what was their choice?

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 95

l

95

Garlinghouse and Nakayama sat down to run the numbers. The charts
filled whiteboards. There was the cost of storage, which was at least falling.
Then there was the expected demand for that storage, which showed a
classic Long Tail shape: A few users would consume a lot, while most
would consume just a little. But how quickly would that change, and how
would people’s habits of deleting email after they’d read it last when there
was no reason to delete anything?
There were also decisions to be made over the different kinds of storage
that Yahoo could spread the email over: fast, slow, and slower yet. Perhaps
Yahoo could store older email on cheap, slow storage, keeping only the
newer email on the more expensive fast storage, where it could be quickly
searched for and retrieved. But that would require a whole new email
software architecture, which introduced even more cost and risk.
Finally, there was the revenue side. Yahoo’s email wasn’t just earning
the company money by displaying ads and selling premium subscriptions,
it was also increasing consumer attachment to the rest of Yahoo. As people
went from email to the Yahoo home page or any of its other services,
from finance to news, the company made lots more money. Yahoo couldn’t
afford to lose market share in email, because those users were so important to the rest of the business. And the value of each user was going up
along with advertising rates.
As 2004 dawned, it became clear that Google was indeed going to
release Gmail. Yahoo needed to have its response ready. On April 1, Gmail
launched, and it was just as Yahoo had feared: one gigabyte of storage for
free. So Rosensweig, then Yahoo’s chief operating officer, pulled the
trigger and authorized the purchase of tens of millions of dollars’ worth
of server and storage equipment. On May 15, at an analysts meeting,
Yahoo announced that free email storage would go from ten to one
hundred megabytes immediately and would soon go higher—premium
users who had paid for that much storage could have a refund. By the
end of the year it had matched Gmail’s one gigabyte, and in 2007
Yahoo went all the way, announcing unlimited email storage for free.
(Meanwhile Gmail has only gradually increased its free storage, which
now stands at just under eight gigabytes.)
What happened after this surprised all the Yahoo executives. Users
didn’t flee Yahoo’s premium email package in droves. There were still

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

96

13:48

l

Page 96

CHRIS ANDERSON

some features worth paying for, such as Web mail without ads, and even
those people who didn’t renew tended to stick around for a while since
they were on an annual plan. People’s email behavior didn’t change
radically, and they continued to delete messages—storage consumption
grew more slowly than feared.
Nakayama’s team wrote software that caught abuse efficiently and kept
the spammers at bay. The definition of “unlimited” storage was also
something Yahoo could control. You could add all the email you wanted,
but Yahoo would watch if you were adding it too quickly, which is one
sign of abuse. As Nakayama puts it, “You can drive as far as you want,
but not as fast as you want.” That meant that Yahoo could add storage
capacity at a slower pace, and the longer it could wait, the cheaper that
storage would be.
In the end, it worked: Yahoo didn’t lose any significant market share.
Today, it remains number one and Gmail is a distant number three.
Yahoo Mail, rather than turning into a black hole of spending, remained
profitable. It competed with Google’s Free by becoming even more free—
getting first to the inevitable end point of unlimited capacity at no cost.
Yahoo “rounded down” and it paid off.
But Google wasn’t done. Indeed, it had only just begun its march to
use Free to enter and compete in any market where software and information economics could disrupt old businesses and create new ones.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 97

8
DE-MONETIZATION
GOOGLE AND THE BIRTH OF A
TWENTY-FIRST-CENTURY ECONOMIC MODEL

It’s now become a tourist attraction: 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway,
Mountain View, California—the Citadel of Free. This is the Googleplex,
the headquarters of the biggest company in history built on giving things
away. Outside, surprisingly fit engineers play beach volleyball and ride
mountain bikes. Inside, they put their shirts back on and plot new ways
to use the extraordinary marginal cost advantages of their huge data centers
to break into new industries and expand the search giant’s reach.
Today Google offers nearly a hundred products, from photo editing
software to word processors and spreadsheets, and almost all of them are
free of charge. Really free—no trick. It does it the way any modern digital
company should: by handing out a lot of things to make money on a few.
Google makes so much money with advertising on a handful of core
products—mostly search results and ads that other sites place on their
own pages, sharing the revenues with Google—that it can embrace Free
in everything else it does. New services actually start with geek fantasy
questions like “Would it be cool?,” “Do people want it?,” “Does it use our
technology well?” They don’t start with the prosaic “Will it make money?”
Sound nuts? It might be for GM or GE, but for companies in the pure
digital realm, that approach can make perfect sense. Setting out to build

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

98

13:48

l

Page 98

CHRIS ANDERSON

a huge audience before you have a business model is not as silly today
as it was back in the dot-com era of the late 1990s, when you’d need a
wheelbarrow of venture capital cash and racks of Sun servers to do the
same. Today any Web start-up has shared access to the same sort of huge
server farms that Google uses, which makes the cost of offering services
online incredibly cheap. Thanks to the availability of “hosting services,”
such as Amazon’s EC2, that allow companies to launch with no physical
infrastructure at all, it’s possible to deliver services to millions of users
using little more than a credit card.
As a result, companies can start small and aim high without taking
huge financial risks or knowing exactly how they will make money. Paul
Graham, the founder of Y Combinator, a venture capital firm specializing in small start-ups, gives would-be entrepreneurs simple advice:
“Build something people want.” He funds companies with as little as
$5,000 and encourages them to use open source tools and hosted servers,
and to work from their homes. Most use Free to test whether the ideas
work and resonate with consumers. If they do, then the next question is
what consumers might actually pay for or how else to make money. Years
can go by before that day comes (and sometimes it never does), but
because the cost of launching the services in the first place is so low,
there’s rarely huge amounts of capital at risk.
Today there are countless Web companies like this, big and small. But
Google is the biggest by far, and because it is so successful in making
money in one part of its business, Free is not just an interim step on the
way to a business model, it is core to its product philosophy.
To understand how Google became the flagbearer of Free, it helps to
see how it evolved. You can shorthand Google’s history into three phases:
1. (1999–2001) Invent a way to do search that gets better, not worse,
as the Web gets bigger (unlike all previous search engines).
2. (2001–2003) Adopt a self-service way for advertisers to create ads
that match keywords or content, and then get them to bid against
one another for the most prominent positions for those ads.
3. (2003–Present) Create countless other services and products to
extend Google’s reach, increasing consumer attachment to the
company. Where it makes sense, extend the advertising to those

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 99

l

99

other products, but don’t do so at the cost of the consumer
experience.
This has worked amazingly well. Today, ten years after its founding,
Google is a $20 billion company, making more in profit (more than $4
billion in 2008) than all of America’s airlines and car companies combined
(okay, that may not be saying much these days!). Not only has it pioneered
a business model built around Free, it is inventing an entirely new way
to do computing, moving more and more functions that used to run on
our desktops into the “cloud,” which is to say running in remote data
centers and accessed online via our Web browsers (and, ideally, Google’s
own browser, Chrome).
Where is this cloud? Well, go to another (semisecret) address in The
Dalles, Oregon, an area along the Columbia River eighty miles from Portland, and you can see a bit of it, at least from the outside. It’s a Google
data center—a huge factory-sized building packed with tens of thousands
of computer boards and hard drives in racks inside portable containers,
all connected together with network wires that ultimately lead to a thick
bundle of fiber-optic cables that connect the building to the Internet.
These data centers are the triple play of technology—processing, bandwidth, and storage—embodied. As Google adds more of these information
factories around the world, they don’t get cheaper, but they do get more
powerful. Each new data center’s computers are faster than the ones that
came before, and its hard drives hold more information. As a result those
data centers need bigger pipes to the outside world. Add up all this capacity
and you can see why each data factory Google builds can do twice as
much for the same price as the one it built about a year and a half earlier.
As a result, every eighteen months the cost to Google of providing you
with your Gmail inbox falls by about half. It was only pennies to begin
with, but every year it’s fewer pennies. Likewise for your directions in
Google Maps, your headlines in Google News, and your three-minute
entertainment fixes on YouTube. Google keeps building these data centers
at the cost of hundreds of millions of dollars, but because the traffic each
handles grows even faster than the infrastructure spending, on a per-byte
basis the cost to the company of serving your needs falls every day.
Today Google has an estimated half million servers spread out in more

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

100

13:48

l

Page 100

CHRIS ANDERSON

than thirty-six data centers, mostly located where electricity is cheap, such
as near hydroelectric power stations in the Pacific Northwest. (Ironically,
electricity is one of the few resources at Google that isn’t too cheap to
meter; indeed, the electricity consumed by a server now costs more over
the life of that server than the server itself. Hence the company’s renewable energy program to help invent cheaper, less carbon-intensive energy
sources.)
This massive infrastructure is unmatched by any other company in the
world, although Microsoft, Yahoo!, IBM, HP, Amazon, and a few others come
close. It gives Google great advantages in the Free race. As low as other
companies’ data costs are, Google’s are still lower, and fall faster, because of
its economies of scale. By dint of its volume, Google can negotiate the best
rates for hardware, bandwidth, and even electricity. (Indeed, CEO Eric
Schmidt used to joke that the reason Google’s computer racks have wheels
on the bottom is so that they can be wheeled out when the owner of the
data center goes bankrupt, as happened to every company Google used
before it started owning the data centers itself. The pursuit of Free can be
a bruising business for those who don’t do the calculations right.)

MAX STRATEGIES
Why does Google default to Free? Because it’s the best way to reach the
biggest possible market and achieve mass adoption. Schmidt calls this
Google’s “max strategy,” and he thinks that such a strategy will come to
define information markets. It’s very simple: “Take whatever it is you are
doing and do it at the max in terms of distribution. The other way of
saying this is that since marginal cost of distribution is free, you might as
well put things everywhere.”
He gives the example of a TV show. Imagine that you and I are the
creators of The Sopranos. You wonder how we’re going to distribute it. As
it happens, I’ve got a friend at HBO and they’ve agreed to do a weekly
series and put up the money to fund it. So that’s great, but it’s only part
of the strategy.
Then we decide we need a blog to build some attention before it airs.
Then, nearer the release, we’ll need a PR firm to get some press. Maybe

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 101

l

101

some other online buzz-generators, too, like a Facebook page or some
sort of viral video. Then, once the show launches, we’ll have a service
that will give plot updates via text message and Twitter. This will drive
people to the show’s Web site, where they can learn more about the
characters, which will get them even more interested in the show.
Then we’ll take all of the footage we don’t put into each Sunday
episode and put it on YouTube. Because we generate so much film for
The Sopranos, we’ll have all these extra little scenes. So, to drive even
more attention, we’ll have a contest for what scene we didn’t put in the
show that we should have put in the show. And so on. We find a way to
take the core idea of The Sopranos and distribute it into every possible
niche of consumer attention. Maybe only the core one—the HBO deal—
makes money, but all the others contribute to its success.
That’s a max strategy.
As Schmidt points out, this strategy works great if you’ve got an HBO.
And that is, in a sense, what Google has with its advertising machine
(AdWords on search results and AdSense on third-party content). But what
if you don’t? Then, a max strategy can still earn mass attention and perhaps
reputation, but you’re left with the challenge of figuring out how to convert
that to cash. That’s not the worst problem in the world—most companies
struggle to achieve popularity, not to monetize it—but if you never quite
solve that little detail, “max” can just mean big bandwidth bills for little
reward.
Fortunately, this is not Google’s problem. It was lucky enough to find a
way to make money that grows as fast as Web usage (or even faster, since
it keeps gaining market share on its search and advertising competitors).
The only thing that limits Google’s growth is the pace of growth of the Web
itself. So most of its other products are designed, either in part or in whole,
to simply extend Internet usage, from free wireless access to free storage.
These other products are what economists call “complements.” Complements are products or services that tend to be consumed together, such
as beer and salted peanuts, or cars and car loans. For Google, almost
anything that happens online can be seen as a complement to its main
business. Every blog post put up is more information for Google’s Web
crawler to index, to help Google give better search results. Every click in
Google Maps is more information about consumer behavior, and every

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

102

13:48

l

Page 102

CHRIS ANDERSON

email in Gmail is a clue to our human network of connections, all of
which Google can use to help invent new products or just sell ads better.
The interesting thing about the consumption of complementary
products is that they tend to rise in tandem. The more people use the
Internet, the better it is for Google’s core business. So if Google can use
Free to encourage people to spend more time online, it will make more
money in the end.
Today the vast majority of Google’s employees are busy dreaming up
new things to give away. It has departments working on ways to give away
Wi-Fi and other departments writing open source software. It offers free
data storage to scientists and scans classic books to put them online. It gives
away photo management software and a place to store those photos online.
It freely distributes Google Earth and for good measure has launched
satellites to create more imagery to make better maps. It runs a free 411
service that’s voice-activated. And if you want to create a new cell phone, it
will give you the operating system software to make that work, too. No charge.
Schmidt gives an example to explain why such apparent altruism makes
sense: “The initial studies on Google News said that people who use
Google News were twice as likely to click on search ads on a subsequent
search, so everybody said, ‘Great.’ It’s a loss leader—a traffic-getter. Sure,
it’s a service to the world and so forth, but a more sophisticated view of
that is to say that the product is not Google News but Google. It’s all
about engagement into Google and that if we can get you, at some point
in your engagement with Google, to end up using Google for something
that we can then monetize, the sums work.”
Or, as Nicholas Carr, author of The Big Switch, put it, “Google wants
information to be free because as the cost of information falls it makes
more money.”
This is the power of complements.
Because Google’s core business is so profitable and is built on such a
massive computing infrastructure, it can do everything else it does cheaper
and more effectively. It’s easier for Google to develop new products, given
that they can be built on the work that is already done, and when they’re
launched it’s easier to make them a success thanks to Google’s command
over global attention. It can introduce products before they’re finished
(“betas”) and quickly get a sense if they’re worth pursuing further with a

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 103

l

103

massive trial. Even Google’s “failures,” such as its Orkut social network
or Google Chat, have millions of users. For Google, failure is cheap, so
it’s not afraid to try risky stuff.
All this sounds very clever, but it’s not quite as deliberate as it seems.
Although Google does have in-house economists and business strategists,
mostly what it has is engineers who are paid to think about what their
technology enables and what people might want. Only later does some
MBA (a second-class citizen in this geek culture) consider how exactly
what the engineers have come up with might be a complement to ad sales.
Sometimes the managers say no on the grounds that the “distraction
cost” (the toll it will take on the engineers’ other projects) might be too
high or that the new creation is not quite as cool as the engineers think,
but they never say no just because it won’t make money. In the Citadel
of Free, gratis is the default. No grand theory is required. It’s just the
obvious conclusion when you’re sitting at the heart of the biggest tripleplay cost-reduction machine the world has ever seen.

A GIANT SUCKING SOUND
All this can also sound very scary. While it’s great that technology tends
to lower prices, it’s disruptive when one of those prices is your salary.
From the coal miners of Wales to the automotive workers of Detroit, this
race to the cheapest, most efficient models has a real human toll. As Jeff
Zucker, the head of NBC Universal, put it, the TV industry is terrified
of “trading analog dollars for digital pennies.” Yet there seems little he or
anyone can do to stop it: TV is a scarcity business (there are only so many
channels), but the Web is not. You can’t charge scarcity prices in an
abundant market, nor do you need to, since the costs are lower, too.
It’s easy to see why this is scary for the industries that are losing their
pricing power. “De-monetization” is traumatic for those affected. But pull
back and you can see that the value is not so much lost as redistributed
in ways that aren’t always measured in dollars and cents.
To see that at work, look no further than Craigslist, the free classifieds
site. In the thirteen years since it was founded, its no-charge listings have
been blamed for taking at least $30 billion out of America’s newspaper

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

104

13:48

l

Page 104

CHRIS ANDERSON

companies’ stock market valuation. Meanwhile, Craigslist itself generates
just enough profit to pay the server costs and the salaries of a few dozen
staff. In 2006, the site earned an estimated $40 million from the few things
it charges for—job listings in eleven cities and apartment listings in
New York City. That’s about 12 percent of the $326 million by which
classified ad revenue declined that year.
But Free is not quite as simple—or as destructive—as it sounds. Just
because products are free doesn’t mean that someone, somewhere, isn’t
making lots of money, or that lots of people aren’t making a little money
each. Craigslist falls into that second category. Most of the value doesn’t
go to Craig Newmark, but instead is distributed among the site’s hundreds
of thousands of users.
Compared to someone placing a classified ad in a print newspaper,
Craigslist users save money and can have longer listings. For those browsing
the ads, Craigslist offers the usual advantages of the Web, from simple
search to automated notifications. Because these two advantages attract
lots of people (remember the max strategy), posters are more likely to find
a buyer for their apartment or an applicant for their job. And because Free
increases the pool of participants, that’s likely to be a better apartment, a
better job (or applicant) than you’d be able to find in a paid ad equivalent.
Free brings more liquidity to any marketplace, and more liquidity means
that the market tends to work better. That’s the real reason why Craigslist
has taken over so much of the classifieds business—Free attracted people,
but the marketplace efficiencies that came with Free ultimately kept them.
“Liquidity” is usually thought of as just a financial term, but in truth it
applies in any system of connected parties. In technology, it’s called “scale.”
What it boils down to is that more is different. If only 1 percent of the hundred
people in some school’s sixth-grade class volunteer to help make the yearbook, it doesn’t get done. But if just 1 percent of the visitors to Wikipedia
decide to create an entry, you get the greatest trove of information the
world has ever seen. (In fact, it’s closer to one in ten thousand Wikipedia
visitors who are active contributors.) More is different in that it allows
small percentages to have a big impact. And that makes more simply better.
The point is that the Internet, by giving everybody free access to a market
of hundreds of millions of people globally, is a liquidity machine. Because
it reaches so many people, it can work at participation rates that would be

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 105

l

105

a disaster in the traditional world of non-zero marginal costs. YouTube works
with just one in a thousand users uploading their own videos. Spammers
can make a fortune with response rates of one in a million. (To give you
some context, in my business of magazines, a response rate of less than
2 percent on direct-mail subscription offers is considered a failure.)
For all the cost advantages of doing things online, the liquidity advantages are even greater. There are huge pools of underexploited supply out
there (good products and services that aren’t as popular as they should
be) and equally huge pools of unsatisfied demand (wants and needs people
either have but can’t act on or didn’t even know they had). Businesses
such as Craigslist serve to connect them. It’s because they can do so
cheaply at such massive scale (Craigslist users create more than 30 million
classified listings each month, tens of thousands of times as much as the
largest newspapers) that they’re so successful.
And yet Craigslist makes very little money, just a tiny fraction of what
it erased from the newspaper coffers. Where does the wealth go?
To follow the money, you have to shift from a basic view of a market
as a matching of two parties—buyers and sellers—to a broader sense of
an ecosystem with many parties, only some of whom exchange cash directly.
Given the size of Craigslist today (50 million users every month), it’s easy
to see how more money can change hands there than did in any newspaper classifieds section, leading to better supply/demand matching and
economic outcomes for the participants, even though less money remains
in the marketplace itself. The value in the classifieds market was simply
transferred from the few to the many.
Venture capitalists have a term for this use of Free to shrink one industry
while potentially opening up others: “creating a zero billion dollar business.”
Fred Wilson, a partner at Union Square Ventures, explains it like this: “It
describes a business that enters a market, like classifieds or news, and by
virtue of the amazing efficiency of its operation can rely on a fraction of the
revenue that the market leaders need to operate profitably.”
Another venture capitalist, Josh Kopelman, tells this story of one such
example:
My first company, Infonautics, was an online reference and research
company targeting students. While I was there, I got a firsthand education

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

106

13:48

l

Page 106

CHRIS ANDERSON

on “asymmetrical competition.” In 1991, when we started, the encyclopedia
market was approximately a $1.2 billion industry. The market leader was
Britannica—with sales of approximately $650 million, they were considered
the gold standard of the encyclopedia market. World Book Encyclopedia
was firmly ensconced in second place. Both Britannica and World Book
sold hundreds of thousands of encyclopedia sets a year for over $1,000.
However, in 1993, the industry was permanently changed. That year
Microsoft launched Encarta for $99. Encarta was initially nothing more
than the poorly regarded Funk & Wagnall’s Encyclopedia repackaged on
a CD—but Microsoft recognized that changes in technology and production
costs allowed them to shift the competitive landscape. By 1996 Britannica’s
sales had dropped to $325 million—about half their 1991 levels—and
Britannica had laid off its famed door-to-door sales staff. And by 1996 the
encyclopedia market had shrunk to less than $600 million. In that year,
Encarta’s U.S. sales were estimated at $100 million.
So in just three years, leveraging a disruptive technology (CD-ROM),
cost infrastructure (licensed content versus in-house editorial teams),
distribution model (retail in computer stores versus a field sales force) and
pricing model ($99 versus $1000), the encyclopedia market was cut in half.
More than half a billion dollars disappeared from the market. Microsoft
turned something that Britannica considered an asset (a door-to-door sales
force) into a liability. While Microsoft made $100 million it shrunk the
market by over $600 million. For every dollar of revenue Microsoft made,
it took away six dollars of revenue from their competitors. Every dollar of
Microsoft’s gain caused an asymmetrical amount of pain in the marketplace.
They made money by shrinking the market.

And now Wikipedia, which costs nothing, has shrunk the market again,
decimating both the printed and the CD-ROM encyclopedia markets.
(In 2009, Microsoft killed Encarta altogether.) Wikipedia makes no
money at all, but because an incomparable information resource is now
available to all at no cost, our own ability to make money armed with
more knowledge is improved.
The value that Britannica created could once be calculated as some combination of Britannica’s direct revenues and the increased productivity of
those lucky enough to own the volumes. Wikipedia, being free and easy to
access, huge, and otherwise more useful for more people, is increasing the
productivity of many more workers than Britannica did. But it isn’t making

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 107

l

107

a penny directly; instead, it’s taking many pennies away from Britannica.
In other words, it’s shrinking the value we can measure (direct revenues),
even as it’s hugely increasing the value we can’t (our collective knowledge).
This is what Free does: It turns billion-dollar industries into milliondollar industries. But typically the wealth doesn’t vaporize, as it appears.
Instead, it’s redistributed in ways that are hard to measure.
In the case of classifieds, newspaper owners, employees, and shareholders lost a lot while the rest of us gained a little. But there are a lot
more of us than there are of them. And it’s entirely possible that the lost
$30 billion in newspaper market capitalization will eventually show up
as far more than that in increased GDP, although we’ll never be able to
make that connection explicitly.
Companies that embrace this strategy aren’t necessarily calculating the
totals of winners and losers. Instead, they’re just doing what’s easiest: giving
people what they want for free and dealing with a business model only
when they have to. But from the outside, it looks like a revolutionary act.
As Sarah Lacy put it in BusinessWeek, “Think Robin Hood, taking riches
from the elite and distributing them to everyone else, including the
customers who get to keep more of their money and the upstarts that can
more easily build competing alternatives.”
You see this all around you. Cell phones, with their free national long
distance, have de-monetized the long-distance business. Do you see anyone
(other than long-distance providers) complaining? Expedia de-monetized
the travel agent business, and E*TRADE de-monetized the stockbroker
business (and paved the way for other free-trading companies, including
Zecco). In each case the winners far outnumber the losers. Free is
disruptive, to be sure, but it tends to leave more efficient markets in its
wake. The trick is to ensure you’ve bet on the winning side.

THE COST OF FREE
But what if it’s not quite as equal as that? What if the wealth is not neatly
transferred from the few to the many, allowing a thousand flowers to
bloom? What if it really just disappears or, even worse, leads to even fewer
winners than before?

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

108

13:48

l

Page 108

CHRIS ANDERSON

This is what Google’s Schmidt worries about. The Internet is a prime
example of a market dominated by what economists call “network effects.”
In such markets, where it’s easy for participants to communicate with one
another, we tend to follow the lead of others, resulting in herd behavior.
Since small differences in market share can get amplified into big ones,
the gap between the number one company in any sector and the number
two and beyond tends to be great.
In traditional markets, if there are three competitors, the number one
company will get 60 percent share, number two will get 30 percent,
and number three will get 5 percent. But in markets dominated by network effects, it can be closer to 95 percent, 5 percent, and 0 percent. Network
effects tend to concentrate power—the “rich get richer” effect.
Although this was the argument used to justify the antitrust prosecution
of Microsoft in the 1990s, in this case Schmidt’s concern is not about lasting
monopolies. In today’s Web market, where the barriers to entry are low, it’s
easy for new competitors to arise. (That, of course, is the argument Google
uses to defend itself against charges of being a monopolist.) Nor is it about
limited choice: Those same low barriers to entry ensure that there are many
competitors, and all the smaller companies and other inhabitants of the
Long Tail can collectively share a big market, too. Instead, this is simply a
concern about making money: Everyone can use a Free business model, but
all too typically only the number one company can get really rich with it.
Why should Google care about whether other companies can use Free
to economic advantage? Because it needs those other companies to create
information that it can then index, organize, and otherwise package to
create its own business. If digital Free de-monetizes industries before new
business models can re-monetize them, then everyone loses.
Just consider the plight of the newspapers. The success of the free
Craigslist has caused the big city dailies to shrink, taking many professional journalists out of circulation. But low cost and user-generated
“hyperlocal” alternatives have not risen equally to fill the gap. Maybe
someday they will, but they haven’t yet. That means that there is less local
news for Google to index. There may be more local information, but it can
no longer use the fact that it came from a professional news organization
as an indicator of quality. Instead, it has to figure out what’s reliable and
what’s not itself, which is a harder problem.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 109

l

109

So Google would very much like the newspapers to stay in business,
even as the success of its own advertising model in taking market share
away from them is making that more difficult. This is the paradox that
worries Schmidt. We could be at a moment where the short-term negative
consequences of de-monetization are felt before the long-term positive
effects. Could Free, rather than making us all richer, instead make just
a few of us superrich?
From the billionaire boss at the Citadel of Free, this may seem like
an ironic observation, but it’s important to Google that there are lots of
winners, because those other winners will pay for the creation of the next
wave of information that Google will organize.
“Traditionally, markets are segmented by price, making room for the
high-end, the middle, and the low-end producers,” Schmidt explains. “The
problem with Free is that it eliminates all the price discrimination texture
in the marketplace. Rather than a range of products at different prices, it
tends to be winner-take-all.” His worry, in short, is that Free works all too
well for him, and not well enough for everyone else.
Of the richest four hundred Americans, a list that Forbes creates each
year, I count just eleven whose fortunes were based on Free business
models. Four of those, including Schmidt, came from Google. Two came
from Yahoo! Two more came from Broadcast.com, an early Web video
company that sold to Yahoo! at the peak of the dot-com bubble and whose
founders, Mark Cuban and Todd Wagner, subsequently invested well.
Then there is Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and, if you will, Oprah
Winfrey, whose $2.7 billion was built on free-to-air TV.
I didn’t include all the media tycoons, from Rupert Murdoch to Barry
Diller, because they run diversified conglomerates that are a mix of Free
and Paid. And the Forbes list stops before including a lot of people who have
become rich, but not megarich, from the Free model, such as the MySpace
founders and a few open source software heroes such as the founders of
MySQL (sold to Sun in 2008 for $1 billion). But Schmidt’s point holds: If
we measure success in terms of the creation of vast sums of wealth spread
among more than a few people, Free can’t yet compare to Paid.
But there are signs that this is changing. To see how, you have to look
at the evolving nature of the original Free business: media.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 110

9
THE NEW MEDIA MODELS
FREE MEDIA IS NOTHING NEW. WHAT IS
NEW IS THE EXPANSION OF THAT MODEL TO
EVERYTHING ELSE ONLINE

It was 1925—the dawn of the commercial radio industry. The wireless
craze had swept America, gathering families around the electronic hearth
and creating “distance fiends,” listeners who marveled at their ability to
listen in on transmissions from cities hundreds or thousands of miles
away. The miraculous ability of broadcast to reach millions of people
simultaneously was forcing radio stations to invent what would become
mass media—entertainment, news, and information of the broadest
possible appeal. It was the beginning of twentieth-century pop culture.
There was only one problem: Nobody had any idea how to pay for it.
Up until then, radio programming was either done on a shoestring
(some regional stations would let anyone who walked in the door go on
the air) or paid for by the radio receiver manufacturers themselves. David
Sarnoff, vice president of the Radio Corporation of America (RCA),
explained at the time that “we broadcast primarily so that those who
purchase RCA radios may have something to feed those receiving instruments with.” But as radio spread, it had become clear that the insatiable
demand for new content could not be fed by a few manufacturers alone.
Radio Broadcast magazine announced a contest for the best answer to
the question “Who is to pay for broadcasting and how?” Eight hundred

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 111

l

111

people entered, with ideas that ranged from volunteer listener contributions (hi, NPR!) to government licensing and, cleverly, charges for program
listings. The winning entry sought a tax on vacuum tubes as an “index
of broadcast consumption.” (That is, in fact, the model that was adopted
in the United Kingdom, where listeners and viewers pay a yearly tax on
their radios and TVs and get the ad-free BBC in return.)
There were some suggestions that advertising might be the answer, but
it was by far from a popular solution. It seemed a shame to despoil this
new medium with sponsored messages. One article fretted that “bombastic
advertising . . . cuts into the vitals of broadcast . . . by creating an apathetic
public, impairing listener interest and curtailing the sales of receiver sets.”
But NBC, one of the new broadcasting companies, was determined to
test to see if radio advertising worked. In 1926, it appointed Frank Arnold,
the best-known proponent of radio advertising, as its director of development. Arnold described radio as “the Fourth Dimension of Advertising,”
beyond the prosaic three dimensions of newspapers, magazines, and billboards. Others talked about how radio magically allowed advertisers to
become a “guest in a listener’s home.”
One of the problems with radio, however, was that for all its defiance
of distance, distance was starting to strike back. The megastations on the
East Coast were using more and more powerful transmissions to reach
thousands of miles into the country, but as regional and local radio grew
up, the closer local signals were drowning out the national ones. (The
Federal Communications Commission was created in part to bring order
to the airwaves.) As a result, radio seemed relegated to local advertising,
which wasn’t lucrative enough to feed all the demand for content.
Salvation came in the form of AT&T, the telephone company. William
Peck Banning, later an AT&T vice president, recalled that in the early
1920s “nobody knew where radio was really headed. For my own part I
expected that since it was a form of telephony, we were sure to be involved
in broadcasting somehow.” That turned out to be long-distance transmission of radio programs on AT&T’s wires, free of interference, so they
could be rebroadcast on local towers around the country. And thus was
born the national radio networks, and the first national market for broadcast advertising. (Before then it was limited to smaller pools of local
advertising for companies within the range of individual stations.)

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

112

13:48

l

Page 112

CHRIS ANDERSON

A few decades later television followed the same path. Both radio and
TV were free-to-air and advertising-supported. It was the beginning of the
so-called media model of Free: a third party (the advertiser) subsidizes
content so that the second party (the listener or viewer) can get it at no
charge.
Today this three-party model is at the core of the $300 billion advertising
industry. It not only supports free media, such as traditional over-the-air
broadcast, but also subsidizes most paid media, from newspapers and
magazines to cable TV, allowing them to be much cheaper than they
would otherwise be. And now, with the Web, a medium on which media
has no privileged position, it supports everything else.

ADS BEYOND MEDIA
What’s different about advertising when it moves beyond media to support
software, services, and content created by regular people, not just media
companies? Lots. For starters, the usual rules of trust are reversed. I’ll give
you an example from my own world.
A while back, a friend from Google was visiting our offices at Wired. I
was showing him our “magazine room,” which is where we put all the pages
of the issue we’re working on in rows on the wall. As the pages take shape,
we can move them around on the wall to find the best flow and rhythm for
the issue and avoid unfortunate clashes between stories or art elements.
One of the other things we do on this wall is watch for “ad/edit conflict,”
which is to say advertisements that appear related to the content they’re
running against. This stems from the “Chinese Wall” that most traditional
media build between their editorial and advertising teams, to ensure that
advertisers cannot influence the editorial. But that’s not enough. We also
need to inspire trust in the readers, so we avoid even the appearance of
influence by ensuring that a car ad is not next to a car story or a Sony
ad anywhere near our reviews of Sony products. Ideally, we don’t even
have them in the same issue.
As I was explaining this to my friend from Google, he stared at me
with mounting disbelief. As well he should have, because Google does
just the opposite.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 113

l

113

The appeal of Google’s phenomenally successful AdSense program is
that it matches ads with content. People pay Google lots of money to do
exactly what we forbid: put Sony ads next to Sony reviews. And readers
love it—it’s called relevance.
Why is such matching bad in print but good online? At the heart of that
question is the essence of how advertising is changing as it moves online.
My own, somewhat inadequate, explanation is that people bring
different expectations to the online world. Somehow, intuitively, they
understand everything that my Google friend and I pondered as we stood
in that room surrounded by paper. Magazines are put together by people,
and people can be corrupted by money. But Web advertising is placed
by software algorithms, and somehow that makes it more pure.
This is, of course, a fiction. Lots of Web ads are placed by hand, and
it’s all too easy to corrupt an algorithm. But when it’s Google placing the
ad on somebody else’s content, the connection between the two is so
arm’s length that people seem not to worry about undue influence.
It’s also entirely possible that we in the traditional media business have
it all wrong. Perhaps we are just flattering ourselves with our church-andstate pursuit of purity, and readers don’t care or even notice if a Sony ad
is next to a Sony review. Perhaps they would even prefer that and it is
our writers who are the real obstacles, afraid that anyone might think that
their opinion had been bought. I don’t know, but I do know that our
industry trade association has strict rules about this sort of thing, and if I
dare to break them my magazine will become ineligible for awards and
suffer other such punishments.
But what’s clear is that the nature of the advertisement is different
online. The old broadcast model was, in essence, this: Annoy the 90
percent of your audience that’s not interested in your product to reach
the 10 percent who might be (think denture ads during football games).
The Google model is just the opposite: Use software to show the ad only
to the people for whom it’s most relevant. Annoy just the 10 percent of the
audience who isn’t interested to reach the 90 percent who might be.
Of course it doesn’t always work that way, and you’ve no doubt seen
plenty of annoying ads served by Google. But as the increased supply of
narrowly targeted ads meets the increased demand from narrowly targeted
content, the matching is getting better. For example, on my aerial robotics

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

114

13:48

l

Page 114

CHRIS ANDERSON

site, where we run Google AdSense delivering hyper-narrow ads for such
arcane products as “three-axis accelerometers,” I polled our readers to ask
them if they wanted me to remove the ads.
The majority asked me to keep them, because they were so relevant
that they counted as content. A smaller group hadn’t noticed that there
were ads at all. The smallest group of all wanted them gone. (I kept them.)

HOW NEW MEDIA CHANGES OLD MEDIA
One of the interesting things about the ad-supported Free model is that
it was actually on the decline in the traditional media business. As television moved from free over-the-air broadcast to cable, which is paid,
content was increasingly supported by a mélange of revenue streams,
including syndication and cable license fees that had little to do with
advertising. Even radio, in the form of satellite radio, was moving to a
mix of direct subscriptions and advertising. It was starting to look more
like the print media business, which mixes subscription and newsstand
sales with advertising revenues.
But the rise of the Web reversed that. After a few years of online experiments with asking people to pay for content, it became clear to almost
everyone that fighting digital economics wasn’t going to work, and Free
won. Not only that, but the price expectations set online began to leak
offline, too.
Newspapers realized that the Google generation might not adopt their
parents’ habit of paying for a print daily, so they introduced free newspapers
aimed at young adults and handed out on street corners and subways. Other
newspapers kept their price but bundled free giveaways, from silverware to
music. As the rest of the newspaper industry declined, free newspapers became
a solitary beacon of hope, growing 20 percent a year (mostly in Europe) and
accounting for 7 percent of total newspaper circulation in 2007.
Meanwhile, broadcast television viewership seems to have peaked, at
least with the sought-after eighteen-to-twenty-four-year-old viewers, who
are increasingly watching clips or even full shows for free online, on
YouTube or Hulu. Broadband is the new free-to-air broadcast, and the
premium cable lock on the viewer now appears to be eroding.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 115

l

115

THE END OF PAID CONTENT
This shift is part of a greater devaluation of content, driven not just by
generational taste but also by technological trends. Jonathan Handel, an
entertainment lawyer (and former computer scientist) in Los Angeles,
gives six reasons for the migration to Free, which I’ll paraphrase as follows:
1. Supply and demand. The supply of content has grown by factors
of million, but demand has not: We still only have two eyes, two
ears, and twenty-four hours in the day. Of course, all content is not
created equal and Facebook pages can’t compare to the New York
Times—unless that Facebook page is your friend’s, in which case it
may be far more interesting than the Times (for you). The difference
is that there are a lot more Facebook pages than there are Times
pages, and they’re created with no expectation of pay.
2. Loss of physical form. We can’t help it: We value atoms more than
bits. As content moved from disks in boxes to files flying through
wires, it became intangible, even abstract. Plus stealing a physical
thing deprives someone else of it and costs somebody real money—
not so for a digital file.
3. Ease of access. It’s often easier to download content than it is to
find it and buy it in stores. As such “search costs” decline, so does
our willingness to pay for having content made available.
4. The shift to ad—supported content. Habits set on the Web carry
over into the rest of life. If content is free online, shouldn’t it become
free elsewhere, too?
5. The computer industry wants content to be free. Apple doesn’t
make its billions selling music files, it makes it selling iPods. Free
content makes the devices it plays on more valuable, as the radio
industry knew back in 1920.
6. Generation Free. The generation that has grown up with broadband has digital economics somehow wired into their DNA.
Whether they’ve ever heard of “near-zero marginal cost” or not,
they intuitively understand it. That’s why they’re either indifferent
or hostile to copyright. They just don’t see the point.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

116

13:48

l

Page 116

CHRIS ANDERSON

This is why ad-supported models won online, and why they’ll continue
to win.
At this point, the skeptical reader should be on full alert. Surely there
are limits to the advertising dollars out there. Advertising can’t support
everything.
This is true, and indeed some advertising can be worth even less
online than offline. The reason comes back to scarcity and abundance.
As Scott Karp, the founder of Publish2, a news service and analysis
firm, puts it, “Advertising in traditional media, whether newspapers,
magazines, or TV, is all about selling a scarce resource—space. The
problem is that on the Web there’s a nearly infinite amount of space.
So when traditional media companies try to sell space online the same
way they sell space offline, they find they only have a fraction of the
pricing power.”
A glossy print magazine can charge an advertiser more than $100 per
thousand print readers, but would be lucky to get more than $20
per thousand online readers. There’s simply more competition online—
advertisers have more choices and the price falls to whatever the market
will bear. But that’s for “display advertising,” banners and images that
are meant to promote a brand, not necessarily to lead to an immediate
sale.
There is another kind of advertising, epitomized by Google’s text ads
that it runs next to search results and on third-party sites. Advertisers only
pay when readers click on the ad. Google doesn’t sell space. It sells users’
intentions—what they’ve declared they’re interested in, in the form of a
search query. And that’s a scarce resource. The number of people typing
in “Berkeley dry cleaner” on any given day is finite.
The result is that while traditional advertising is limited online, the
way Google has redefined advertising—connecting products with expressed
desires—is still growing fast. Eric Schmidt, Google’s CEO, has estimated
that the potential market for online advertising is $800 billion, or twice
the total advertising market, online and off, today. It’s easy to see why:
Companies only pay for results. If you’re sure to make a dollar for every
10 cents you spend on marketing, the sky’s the limit. Compare that with
the old Madison Avenue truism: “Half my advertising is wasted, but I
don’t know which half.” No contest.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 117

l

117

THE TRIUMPH OF THE MEDIA MODEL
This is why the ad-driven model has spread so far beyond media online.
It is simply where the money is. Fred Wilson, the New York venture
capitalist, thinks that “most Web apps will be monetized with some kind
of media model. Don’t think banner ads when I say that. Think of all the
various ways that an audience that is paying attention to your service can
be paid for by companies and people who want some of that attention.”
You can look at the Web as the extension of the media business model
to an unlimited range of other industries. Google is not a media company
by any traditional definition of the word, but it makes its billions from
the media business model. So, too, for Facebook, MySpace, and Digg.
All of them are software companies at the core. Some organize other
people’s content, others provide a place for people to create their own
content. But they don’t create or distribute content the way a traditional
media company does.
But when people think of the “media business model,” they usually
just think of advertising. That’s a big part of it, to be sure, but as those of
us in the media business know, it goes far beyond that.
First of all, advertising’s move online has created scores of new ad
forms beyond the traditional “impressions” model of payment per thousand
viewers or listeners. (This is known as “cost per thousand” or CPM, confusingly using the roman numeral M for thousand.) Online variants
include “cost per click” (CPC), which is what Google uses, and “cost per
transaction” (CPT), where advertisers only pay when a viewer becomes
a paying customer, such as in Amazon’s Associates program.
Then there is “lead generation,” where advertisers pay for the names
and email addresses of people who have been attracted by free content,
or for information about those consumers. Advertisers can sponsor an
entire site or department for a fixed sum, not determined by traffic. They
can pay to be included in search results, which Google and others offer.
Or they can turn to good old product placement and pay to have their
brand or goods included in a video or game.
Add text, video, animation, audio, and virtual world (video game)
versions of all of these, and you can see how much the advertising world

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

118

13:48

l

Page 118

CHRIS ANDERSON

has changed as it’s moved online. Twenty years ago advertising could be
broken down into five big categories: print (display and classified listings),
TV, radio, outdoor (billboards and posters), and handouts (fliers, etc.).
Today there are at least fifty different models online, and each one is
changing by the day. It’s head-spinning—and exhilarating—to watch an
industry reinvent itself in the face of a new medium.

THE ORC ECONOMY
We think of “media” as being radio, television, magazines, newspapers,
and journalistic Web sites. But media is really just content of any sort,
and the best way to measure its impact in our society is by how much
time people spend with it. Measured that way, few of the above can
compete with a form of content that we rarely think of as media at all,
even though it competes with media directly for attention. That form of
content is video games, from Xbox 360 shooters to PC online multiplayer
worlds.
Not only has the games industry risen to rival Hollywood in sales and
television in consumer time, but it is transforming at a much quicker
pace. No business is racing to Free faster than the video game business.
Once upon a time people bought video games in stores. They came
in boxes and typically cost $40 or $50. You’d bring them home, insert
the disk, and play them for a week, and then rarely again. Virtually all
of a game’s sales would be in the first six weeks after its release. It was
like Hollywood, but without the lucrative follow-on DVD and syndication market—a hit-driven business with no second chances for the
misses.
Actually, this is still the main way people buy video games, crazy as it
may sound. But games are one of the last digital products that are still
mostly sold that way, and that model is nearing its end. Just as music and
computer software is becoming primarily an online market, so will games.
And once you switch from shipping atoms (plastic boxes and disks) to
transmitting bits, Free becomes inevitable. Over the next decade, this
$10 billion industry will shift from primarily a traditional packaged goods
business to an online business built on entry prices of zero.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 119

l

119

The first signs of this started to emerge in Asia around 2003. Because
software piracy in the markets of China and South Korea had made it
difficult to sell games the usual way, game-makers turned to the fastgrowing online market instead. Cybercafes were booming in China,
bringing the Internet to a population that could not, for the most part,
afford computers in their homes. In South Korea, “PC baangs,” or
computer gaming parlors, started to replace the usual arcades as a place
for teenagers and young people to hang out in a country where most still
live at home with their parents before marriage.
For players, the advantage of online games is in the quality and
diversity of the competition: You’re playing against real people, not just
pre-scripted artificial intelligences. In one of the most popular categories,
known as massively multiplayer online games (think World of Warcraft
or its predecessors, such as Everquest), the games are never-ending and
can become an obsession that consumes players for years. Not for nothing
is the current champion often called “World of Warcrack.”
For the game-makers, the advantages of going online are many. Rather
than printing disks, manuals, and boxes and then getting a retailer to
stock them, they can just let gamers download the software. That saves a
huge amount of money in manufacturing and distribution. Going online
opens up unlimited “shelf space,” so older and niche games aren’t driven
out by the newer and more mainstream titles, since they’re all equally
accessible online. And it provides an easy way to update the software to
add features and remove bugs.
But the most important reason games are moving online is that it’s a
better way to make money. It allows the makers to shift from a hit-or-miss
“point of sale” revenue model to one based on an ongoing relationship
with the player, just as the Gillette disposable razor blade moved the
shaving business from the sale of razors to a lifetime sale of blades.
As a result, the online games industry has become the most vibrant
experiment in Free in the world. Including both games that are just
distributed online and those that are actually played online, this industry
was worth an estimated $1 billion in the United States in 2008, and in
China it’s even bigger—on track to hit $2.67 billion in 2010. It includes
everything from iPhone games that you can download from iTunes (free,
paid, or a hybrid of the two), “casual games” played online such as poker

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

120

13:48

l

Page 120

CHRIS ANDERSON

and Sudoku, children’s games such as Club Penguin, Neopets, and
Webkinz, and the booming massively multiplayer worlds.
Each one of these markets has become a petri dish of new forms of
Free, and as a result this has become the industry to watch for innovative
new business models, many of which have applications outside the world
of games. Free is nothing new to games, of course: The basic freemium
model has long been a staple of the games industry in the form of limited
demos, which are distributed free in games magazines or online and allow
you to play a few levels without charge. If you like what you see, you can
either buy the full version or pay for a code that will unlock the rest of
the levels in the version you’ve got. But the past few years have seen an
explosion of more innovative business models built around Free that have
only been possible with ubiquitous broadband Internet access. Here are
the five most successful categories:

1. SELLING VIRTUAL ITEMS
In 2008, Target sold more than a million dollars’ worth of a plastic card that,
to most of its customers, was completely baffling. All it had was a numeric
code that worked with something called Maple Story, and it sold in increments of $10 and $25. What’s Maple Story? Just ask a twelve-year-old kid
(or the parent of one). It’s an online multiplayer game that became a breakout
hit in its native South Korea, where it is played by more than 15 million
people, and was imported into the United States by its maker, Nexon, in
2005. Today it has more than 60 million registered users globally.
Like many online multiplayer games, Maple Story is free to play; you
can happily move through the levels, interact with other players, and
otherwise have fun without spending a penny. But if you’d like to do it
faster, you may want to buy a “teleportation stone,” which will allow you
to jump from place to place rather than trudging through the landscape.
For that you’ll need “mesos” (credits) that you can either earn or get from
this card (or, if you’re an adult and have a credit card, buy online).
Similarly, Maple Story will let you buy virtual items that will allow
you to collect mesos more quickly or move between worlds without having
to wait for a “bus.” You can buy a “guardian angel” who will bring you

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 121

l

121

back to life immediately, without having to trudge back from a respawn
point. With your Nexon points you can buy new outfits, hairstyles, and
faces. Importantly, you can’t buy a superweapon, because that would be
unfair—the company doesn’t want people to be able to buy their way to
power, creating a two-tiered society. Instead, money is used to save time,
look cooler, or otherwise do more with less effort. The opportunities to pay
are “nonpunitive,” says former Nexon North America boss Alex Garden.
You don’t have to pay, but you may want to.
But the biggest example of this market in virtual goods mostly involves
adults, not kids. In early 2008, Google executives noticed that the word
“WOW” was consistently one of the world’s top ten search words. Was this
a global rash of excitability? Not exactly. It’s actually the abbreviation for
World of Warcraft, and what people were searching for was gold. Not real
gold, but virtual gold—the game’s internal currency. At the time of this
writing, the exchange rate was around 20 WOW gold to the U.S. dollar.
Buildings in China are full of workers clicking through the game to earn
these virtual assets to sell in secondary markets outside of the game.
The virtual assets trade is a good business, and in many cases it’s bigger
than the direct game revenues themselves. After all, why sell plastic disks at
a high price once when you can sell bits over a wire for years? The people
who choose to pay are, by definition, the most engaged, most committed
users, and as a result the least price-sensitive and the happiest about paying.
(Note that this is not unique to games: It’s also the model Facebook uses
with the digital “gifts” that its members can buy for each other, which account
for an estimated $30 million a year for the social network.)
When you’re selling disks, you risk the Hollywood “second weekend”
effect: When the movie’s not as good as the trailer made it look, people
feel ripped off and word spreads. But in games that are free to play and
only charge for items once people understand why they might want them,
the risk of disappointment is lower and the odds of returning customers
is higher. Simply put: You’re charging the people who want to pay, because
they understand the value of what they’re getting.
“If the packaged goods games model is more like movies,” says Garden,
“our online games are more like TV.” The aim is to build an ongoing
relationship with the consumer, not just have a big weekend.
In some cases, the company running the game sells the digital items

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

122

13:48

l

Page 122

CHRIS ANDERSON

themselves. In other cases, they just create a market where players can
sell virtual goods to one another, and the company makes its money from
a transaction fee, like eBay does. As an example of the second model, in
2005, Sony created a marketplace, called Station Exchange, in its
EverQuest II game. It let players offer in-game items for a listing fee of
$1 and a 10 percent closing fee on the final price. It even offered an
escrow service to ensure that people got what they paid for. It ended up
being just a modest success, but it was promising enough for Sony’s
executives to declare it the future of the industry.

2. SUBSCRIPTIONS
In 2007, Disney announced that it was going to pay $700 million for a
Web site that let children pretend to be little cartoon penguins on a patch
of snow. If you think that the better part of a billion dollars is a lot to pay
for a game about flightless birds, adorable or not, you probably don’t
have little kids. If you do, chances are you already know about Club
Penguin, an online community that at the time of the purchase had
attracted 12 million children (some of mine among them). In 2006 and
2007, Club Penguin mania spread through the playground with a speed
normally reserved for head lice.
Club Penguin is free to play, and an estimated 90 percent of its users,
who are mostly between six and twelve years old, never pay a penny for
it. But if you want to “upgrade your igloo” with furniture or buy a pet for
your penguin, you’ll have to get your parents to whip out their credit card
and subscribe for $6 a month. At the time it was purchased by Disney,
Club Penguin had 700,000 paid subscribers (6 percent of all its users),
who were generating more than $40 million in annual revenue.
This is one of the most common game models online, especially with
those games that have a “sticky” social component. RuneScape, yet another
Web-based world of orcs and elves, counts more than 1 million subscribers
(out of more than 6 million users) paying $5 a month, creating a $60
million annual business. As a point of reference, that’s about the same
size as the subscriber user base and annual revenues of the Wall Street
Journal’s subscription-based Web site, which is the biggest paid site of all

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 123

l

123

the world’s newspapers. It’s also larger than the New York Times’s paid
online subscriber base was before the paper dropped the model in favor
of Free in 2008. It appears that people would rather pay to cast pretend
spells than to read Pulitizer Prize–winning news. (I’ll leave whether
that’s a good thing or a bad thing to others.)

3. ADVERTISING
In the run-up to the 2008 presidential elections, players of an Xbox Live
racing game called Burnout Paradise noticed as they sped around the
usual tracks that one of the billboards seemed remarkably topical. It was
a picture of Barack Obama with an invitation to go to voteforchange.com,
one of the campaign’s Web sites. This wasn’t a political statement by the
game’s makers, it was a paid advertisement by the Obama campaign. And
it’s just one of thousands of ads that now populate video games on consoles,
such as the Xbox 360 and Sony PS3, and on PCs.
Some of these ads are an additional revenue stream for paid games,
but an increasing number are supporting the free-to-play model. Sometimes those ads are built into the original game, but as more and more
games are built to use an Internet connection it’s become possible to
insert ads on the fly, updating the games’ billboards, posters on the walls
of its cities, even the clothes that the game characters wear.
In a sense, in-game advertising has become the ultimate product
placement: Not only can each player get different ads, but every time the
game is played those ads can change again in an effort to ensure relevance
and variety. Sometimes the ads look just like ads in the real world, and
sometimes they are more subtle, from the brand of boots in a snowboarding game to the bands in its soundtrack. And sometimes the entire
game is an advertisement, such as Burger King’s Xbox games about racing,
crashing, and sneaking around with the chain’s King character.
The most common form of this is the casual games market, relatively
simple games that you can play in your Web browser. The numbers here
are astounding: Yahoo! Games and MTV’s AddictingGames each reach
more than 10 million users a month, and both are based on a free, advertising-supported game model. Overall this market is already worth more

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

124

13:48

l

Page 124

CHRIS ANDERSON

than $200 million a year, and the Yankee Group, a consultancy, estimates
it will pass $700 million by 2010.

4. REAL ESTATE
Second Life is not exactly a game—it’s a world where you can explore
and meet other people—but it’s as popular as one, with a half million
active user accounts. It’s free, and you can download the software and
explore to your heart’s content without a credit card. But if you really get
into Second Life, you may want to put down roots and create your own
home “in-world.” For that, you’ll need some land, and that is where Linden
Labs, the company that runs the service, makes its money.
Linden Labs is in the virtual real estate business, and a good business
it is, too. Unlike real-world realtors, Linden Labs can make as much land
as it needs, and the land is made attractive by the users, who build entire
towns—homes, office buildings, stores, and other attractions—themselves.
Monthly lease fees range from $5 to $195, depending on the size of the
plot. Or you can buy your own island for a one-time fee of $1,675, plus
$295 a month.
This is not just a moneymaker for Linden Labs. It’s also created a
secondary market of real estate brokers within Second Life, who resell
already developed property. One of the most successful such brokers,
“Anshe Chung,” claimed to have become a millionaire with such reselling.
Plenty of other online games use this model, although sometimes it’s
not land they’re selling but space stations, castles, or even berths on pirate
galleons. In a sense, this is just a subset of the class of virtual goods, like
the gold of Warcraft or the clothes of Club Penguin. But the difference is
that these aren’t really sales—they’re “land use fees,” or rentals, and when
you stop paying, that land or residence is typically resold to someone else.

5. MERCHANDISE
Christmas morning, 2008. Under the trees of millions of American homes,
there was an otherwise ordinary stuffed animal, but for its special tag. On

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 125

l

125

the tag was a code, which allowed the lucky recipient to go online and
play with a virtual version of his or her own stuffed animal. This simple
combination—a matched pair of plush and virtual pets—has made
Webkinz the number one toy in America for two years running.
The Webkinz model is a clever combination of Free and Paid. What’s
the main attraction—the stuffed animal or the game? Hard to say, but
it’s likely that neither would have been a success without the other. In
a sense it’s just the natural expression of twentieth-century and twentyfirst-century economics working in tandem: The atoms (the stuffed
animal) cost money, but the bits (the online game) are free. While
most kids have a limited appetite for stuffed animals in the real world,
in the game collecting an entire menagerie is the most rewarding way
to play. And the only way to add more virtual animals is to buy the
stuffed ones. Thus a virtuous cycle, leading to hundreds of millions of
dollars in what hasn’t been a blockbuster category since the Cabbage
Patch dolls.
This hybrid online/offline model is now used by everyone from Lego
to Mattel, where toys come with secret codes that unlock virtual goods
in the free online games on their Web sites. Another free online game
for kids, Neopets, sells physical packs of trading cards of the pets, and
Maple Story is doing the same for its own characters. Other games sell
everything from collectible figurines to T shirts.
It’s the purest form of marginal cost economics—give away the version
that costs nothing to distribute to enhance the value of the thing that has
a 40 percent profit margin in stores. Free makes Paid more profitable.

FREE MUSIC
If the video game industry is a business racing toward Free to accelerate its
growth, music is a business stumbling to Free to slow its decline. But the
early experiments are encouraging. By now the success of Radiohead’s
name-your-own-price experiment with In Rainbows is legendary. Rather than
release its seventh album into stores as usual, the band released it online
with the request that you pay as much or as little as you wanted. Some chose
to pay nothing, including me (not because I didn’t think it was worth

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

126

13:48

l

Page 126

CHRIS ANDERSON

something, but because I wanted to see if that was, in fact, allowed), while
others paid more than $20. Overall, the average price was $6.
In Rainbows became Radiohead’s most commercially successful album.
In an era where most music sales are falling off a cliff, Radiohead reported
these jaw-dropping statistics:
• The album sold 3 million copies worldwide, including downloads
from the band’s site, physical CDs, a deluxe two-CD and vinyl box
set, as well as sales from iTunes and other digital retailers.
• The deluxe box set, which cost $80, sold 100,000 copies.
• Radiohead made more money from the digital downloads before the
release of the physical CD than the total take, across all formats, of
its previous album.
• When the physical CD was released, more than two months after
the name-your-own-price digital form was released, it still entered
the U.S. and UK charts at number one, and the paid digital download on iTunes also entered at number one, selling 30,000 copies
in its first week.
• Radiohead’s tour that followed the release of the album was its biggest
ever, selling 1.2 million tickets.
There are plenty of artists like Radiohead who understand the value
of Free in reaching a larger audience of people who may someday become
paying customers in the form of concert attendees, T shirt buyers, or
even—gasp—music buyers. Musicians ranging from Nine Inch Nails’
Trent Reznor to Prince have embraced similar free distribution strategies.
And there are plenty of companies outside of the core music industry that
benefit hugely from free music, with Apple, whose capacious iPods would
cost thousands of dollars to fill with paid music, chief among them.
But when we say the “music business,” we usually mean the traditional
record labels, who blame Free (mostly in the form of piracy) for their ills.
That accusation may be true, but it is a mistake to equate the labels’
interests with those of the music market at large. Labels traditionally
package and sell recorded music, and that, as we all know, is a business
in terminal decline. But virtually every other part of the music market,
outside the labels, is growing, often by embracing Free.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 127

l

127

There are more bands making more music than ever before. In 2008,
iTunes, the largest music retailer in the United States, added 4 million
new tracks to its catalog (roughly 400,000 albums’ worth!). Today, it is
rare to find a band that doesn’t have a MySpace page where you can
listen to four songs or so for free. There are more people listening to
music for more hours of the day, thanks to iPod’s ability to take the music
you want to hear with you everywhere. Music licensing, for television,
movies, commercials, or video games, is also bigger than ever. And the
mobile music industry—ringtones, “ringbacks,” and the sale of individual
songs—is booming. And then there’s Apple itself, whose old Mac motto—
“Rip, Mix, Burn”—was a winking tribute to the power of free music to
sell its computers, music players, and phones.
Most of all, the concert business is thriving, driven in part by the ability
of free music to enlarge the fan base. Live shows have always been one of
the most profitable parts of the business. In 2002, the top thirty-five touring
bands, including the Eagles and Dave Matthews Band, made four times as
much from their concerts as they did from selling records and licensing,
according to Allen Krueger, a Princeton economist. Some bands, such as
the Rolling Stones, make more than 90 percent of their money from
touring. Tickets can easily go into the hundreds of dollars, creating a thriving
secondary market for resale. (In 2007 eBay bought StubHub, one of the
largest such resellers.) And why not? Memorable experiences are the ultimate
scarcity.
Today, the summer festival season stretches to half a year, and a generation is growing up scheduling their lives around it. And the revenues don’t
just come from the attendees: Tours are often sponsored (the Vans Warped
Tour, for example), and companies such as Camel will pay for the right
to give out free cigarettes or other products to festivalgoers. Between the
food, drink, merchandise, and housing, festivals are an entire tourism
business built on the lure of music that many fans never thought to pay
for.
The big labels understand all too well that their role in this world is
shrinking. “The music industry is growing,” Edgar Bronfman, the chairman
of Warner Music, told investors in 2007. “The record industry is not
growing.” What to do about it is another question. Some have decided to
fight to keep what they have, with piracy lawsuits and often ruinous royalty

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

128

13:48

l

Page 128

CHRIS ANDERSON

demands to companies that try to create new ways for consumers to get
music, such as Internet radio. Others have decided to innovate out of this
mess by moving to the “360 model,” where they represent all aspects of
an artist’s career, including touring, licensing, endorsements, and merchandise. (This has had limited success so far, mostly because the labels aren’t
yet very good at these other jobs, and artists often complain about the
high percentage fee they charge for them.)
But some of the smaller labels are innovating more successfully, often
by using Free in some form or another. RCRD LBL, a company started
by star blogger Pete Rojas, offers free music supported by advertising.
Name-your-price models are proliferating. And the small labels that sell
the newly resurgent category of vinyl LPs to discriminating music fans
routinely offer free digital downloads as tasters. In Nashville, INO
Records conducted an experiment in late 2006 with a record called
“Mockingbird” by Derek Webb. He explains what happened:
I had a record I was proud of, but the label was out of marketing dollars
and sales were at a trickle. So I convinced the label to let me give it away
for free. But there was a catch. We were going to ask not only for names,
email addresses, and zip codes for everyone who downloaded the record,
we were also going to ask them to recommend the record to five friends,
via email addresses they would enter (but we wouldn’t keep), who they
thought might want to download it too. I gave away over 80,000 records in
three months. Since then I’ve been able to filter that email list by zip codes
to find out where my fans are and then email them to get them in the
rooms. I sell shows out now. And sell a lot of merch. I have a career.

There are thousands of stories like Webb’s. But what’s particularly interesting is that the same pragmatism about the need for the industry to
embrace new models is shared even by the biggest winners of the old
way. Interviewed in 2008 about the impact of file-sharing on his label,
G Unit Records, the rap artist 50 Cent had the advantage in perspective
of also being an artist. Sure, file-trading was hurting his label, but there
is a larger war to be won:
The advances in technology impact everyone, and we all must adapt. What
is important for the music industry to understand is that this really doesn’t

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 129

l

129

hurt the artists. A young fan may be just as devout and dedicated no matter
if he bought it or stole it. The concerts are crowded and the industry must
understand that they have to manage all the 360 degrees around an artist.
They [the industry] have to maximize their income from concerts and
merchandise.

FREE BOOKS
Finally, this chapter would not be complete without a word about free
books, of which this is, naturally, one (at least in digital form). Books are
a special case of print, like some glossy magazines, where the physical
form is still preferred by most. The book industry is not in collapse, thankfully, but that has not stopped hundreds of authors (and a few publishers)
from conducting their own experiments with Free.
The big difference between books and music is that for most people,
the superior version is still the one based on atoms, not bits. For all their
cost disadvantages, dead trees smeared into sheets still have excellent battery
life, screen resolution, and portability, to say nothing about looking lovely
on shelves. But the market for digital books—audiobooks, ebooks, and Web
downloads—is growing fast, mostly to satisfy demands that physical books
cannot, from the need for something you can consume while driving to
the need for something you can get instantaneously, wherever you are.
Most free book models are based on freemium, one way or another.
Whether it’s a limited-time free download of a few chapters, or the whole
thing in a well-formatted PDF available forever, the digital form is a way
to let the maximum number of people sample the book, in the hopes that
some will buy.
For example, Neil Gaiman, the science fiction writer, gave away
American Gods as a digital download for four weeks in 2008. The usual
fears and objections were presented at first: that it would cannibalize sales
in stores or, at the other extreme, that a limited availability was counterproductive since by the time many people heard about it, it would be
gone. The second worry is hard to check, but the first turned out to be
mistaken. Not only did American Gods become a best seller, but sales of
all of Gaiman’s books in independent bookstores rose by 40 percent over
the period the one title was available for free. Eighty-five thousand people

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

130

13:48

l

Page 130

CHRIS ANDERSON

sampled the book online, reading an average of forty-five pages each. More
than half said they didn’t like the experience of reading online, but that
was just an incentive to buy the easier-to-read hardcover. Gaiman then
gave away his next children’s book, The Graveyard, as free online readings
in streamed video, a chapter at a time, and that, too, became a best seller.
For nonfiction books, especially those on business topics, free books
are often more closely modeled after free music. The low-marginal-cost
digital book is really marketing for the high-marginal-cost speech or
consulting gig, just as free music is marketing for concerts. You can have
the abundant, one-size-fits-all version of the author’s ideas for free, but if
you want those ideas tailored for your own company, industry conference,
or investors meeting, you’ll have to pay for the author’s scarce time. (Yes,
that’s my model, too. Speakers Bureau details are on my Web site!)
This can even work for physical books. Consultants often buy thousands
of their own volumes of strategic wisdom to distribute for free to potential clients, a tactic so common that best-seller lists now have special
methods to spot and ignore these bulk sales. In Europe, newspapers sometimes offer small paperback books, sometimes in serial form, free with
their issues on the newsstand, which helps drive newspaper sales. And
authors increasingly offer free review copies to any blogger who wants
one—the “Long Tail of book reviewers”—on the grounds that such word
of mouth is well worth the few dollars each copy costs.
Like everything else in Free, this is not without controversy. Howard
Hendrix, then vice president of the Science Fiction Writers of America,
has called authors who give away their books “webscabs,” and there are
publishers who still have their doubts that free books stimulate more
demand than they satisfy (sometimes based on experience). But in a world
of shrinking bookstore shelf space and disappearing newspaper book review
sections, authors are keen to try anything that can help them build an
audience. As publisher Tim O’Reilly puts it, “the enemy of the author is
not piracy, but obscurity.” Free is the lowest-cost way to reach the largest
number of people, and if the sample does its job, some will buy the
“superior” version. As long as readers continue to want their books in
atoms form, they’ll continue to pay for them.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 131

10
HOW BIG IS THE FREE ECONOMY?
THERE’S MORE TO IT THAN JUST
DOLLARS AND CENTS

I get this question all the time: How big is the Free economy? To which
there is only one reasonable answer: Which Free economy do you mean?
It matters, because there are a lot of them, from the formal economy of
business to the informal economy of volunteerism. Complicating matters
further, the real ones are hard to measure, and the fake ones aren’t, well,
real. The countless unpaid services we do for one another every day,
through kindness or social obligation, are free, but we don’t tally them.
And “buy one, get one free” doesn’t count as a new economic model
worth following.
Let’s quickly dispense with the use of “free” as a marketing gimmick.
That’s pretty much the entire economy; I suspect that there isn’t an
industry that doesn’t use this in one way or another, from free trials to
free prizes inside. But most of that isn’t really free—it’s just a direct crosssubsidy of one sort or another. It’s no more a distinct market than the
“discount economy” might be, or any other marketing device.
Then how about the nonmonetary economies of reputation and
attention? These are real economies, in the sense that they’re markets
with quasi-currencies that can be measured and valued, from “eyeballs”
to Facebook friends. But because these are nonmonetary markets, they

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

132

13:48

l

Page 132

CHRIS ANDERSON

are, by definition, not measured in dollars and cents. Yet that hasn’t stopped
people from trying, often very creatively.
In early 2009, Burger King launched one of its trademark subversive
marketing campaigns. Called the “Whopper Sacrifice,” it offered Facebook members a free hamburger for every ten people they “unfriended”
on the social network. (This was to prove that “you like your friends but love
the Whopper,” or more plausibly, to get some buzz-generating notoriety
for Burger King.)
As it happens, there is a long tradition of measuring economies in
terms of hamburgers, starting with the Economist’s “Big Mac Index,” which
compares the price of McDonald’s burgers in different countries to see if
their currency exchange rates are fairly valued (on the argument that a
rupiah can be fiddled, but a Big Mac is a Big Mac). So bloggers quickly
set out to do a similar thing with the Whopper Sacrifice and Facebook.
Facebook “friends” are a classic unit of reputational currency. The
more “friends” you have, the more influence you have in the Facebook
world, and the more social capital you have to spend. Indeed, most of
the value of Facebook is in the fact that it has created perhaps the world’s
largest closed market of reputational currency, which is the foundation
of its estimated multibillion-dollar valuation.
But figuring out exactly how many billions of dollars Facebook is worth
has been a tricky matter. It’s probably some multiple of the users it has and
the number of connections between them, which is what “friending” someone creates. That act is an exchange of reputational currency, and if that
currency is worth something, it must be worth something to the person giving
it. But how much? And what does that imply for Facebook’s valuation?
By putting a dollar value on a friend, Burger King was essentially
offering a marketplace estimate of Facebook’s value. Blogger Jason Kottke
added it up:
Facebook has 150 million users and the average user has 100 friends. Each
friendship requires the assent of both friends so really each user can, on
average, only get credit for ending half of their friendships. The price of a
Whopper is approximately $2.40. That means that each user’s friendship is
worth around 5 Whoppers, or $12. Do the math and:
$12/user × 150M users $1.8 billion valuation for Facebook

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 133

l

133

Interestingly, that’s considerably less than the $10 to $15 billion that
the social network’s investors, including Microsoft, had valued it at in
2007 and 2008. But with the economy crashing and Facebook still unable
to find a way to make money faster than it is spending it, perhaps Burger
King had it more right than Bill Gates. (Indeed, leaked investor documents
in early 2009 showed that Facebook’s internal valuation was only $3.7
billion in July 2008 and may well have fallen since.)
The value of attention and reputation is clearly something, or companies wouldn’t spend so much on advertising to influence them. We set
prices on attention every day: the cost to reach a thousand radio listeners
for thirty seconds, the charge for forcing a million Super Bowl viewers to
interrupt their game. And every time a movie star’s agent negotiates a
film deal, a reputation is being valued. But there’s a lot more attention
and reputation in the world than that measured in media and celebrity.
The problem is we don’t have any idea of how much more.
Is the global supply of attention fixed? Is there a given pool of attention, and for every YouTube star who ascends, another must fall to
maintain some cosmic constant? Can one generation have more attention capacity than another, or does multitasking just slice the same
attention capacity more finely?
Consider again the “Dunbar number,” the observed limit of the number
of relationships an individual can maintain in which he or she knows
who each person is and how each person relates to every other person.
Decades of anthropological research, studies of civilization going back
millennia, fixed that number at 150. But that was before MySpace and
its kin. Now software can help you maintain links many times that. The
average number of friends for MySpace members is around 180, and
many go into the thousands. Has silicon enhanced our reputational
capacity, or are we just diluting the meaning of “friend”?
These are all good questions, and it will probably take yet another
generation to answer them. In the meantime, let’s run through some of
the more concrete forms of Free and get a ballpark estimate of their size.
The easiest form of Free to measure is the “three-party market,” which
is to say the world of advertising-supported free media we discussed earlier.
Again, that’s most radio and broadcast television, most Web media, and
the proliferation of free print publications, from newspapers to “controlled

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

134

13:48

l

Page 134

CHRIS ANDERSON

circulation” magazines. For the top 100 U.S. media firms alone, in 2006
radio and TV (not including cable) advertising revenues were $45 billion.
Online, almost all media companies make their offerings free and adsupported, as do many nonmedia companies such as Google, so I’ll include
the entire online ad market in the “paying for content to be free to
consumers” category. That’s another $21 to $25 billion. Free paper newspapers and magazines are probably a billion more. There are no doubt
some other smaller categories I’m omitting and a lot of independents not
included in the numbers above. Still, let’s call the total of offline and
online ad-driven content and services in the United States a conservative
$80 to $100 billion.
The second form, which you’re now familiar with, is freemium (what
economists call “versioning”), where a few paying customers subsidize
many unpaying ones. This includes both mature companies with different
tiers of product pricing and start-up companies who give everything
away for free while they figure out whether there will be enough demand
for their offerings to lead to a business model (e.g., most Web 2.0
companies).
It’s near impossible to properly tabulate all the companies who use
that model, but Forrester Research, a Cambridge, Massachusetts, consultancy, has estimated that the corporate side of it (company spending on
Web 2.0 services, most of which are the “premium” in the freemium
equation) was around $800 million in 2008. It’s a safe bet that the consumer
side is at least a quarter that big, so together we can call that a round
$1 billion.
Add to that the open source software market. The “Linux ecosystem”
(everything from Red Hat to IBM’s open source consulting business) is
around $30 billion today, according to IDC, another consultancy. It estimates that other companies built around open source, such as MySQL
($50 million annual revenues) and SugarCRM ($15 million), probably
add up to less than $1 billion.
Most of the emerging free-to-play online video game market uses the
freemium model. These are primarily online massively multiplayer games,
which are free to play but make money by charging the most dedicated
gamers for digital assets (upgrades, clothing, new levels, etc.). The “casual
games market” (think everything from online card games to flash games)

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 135

l

135

is now at nearly $3 billion. Call this $4 billion total. So the total freemium
market is around $36 billion.
Finally, there is the gift economy. This last category is impossible to
properly quantify, especially since much of it has no dollar figure attached
at all, but I’ll give some examples that do have numbers attached so you
can get a sense of scale: Apple’s iPod, which gets much of its value from
the fact that it can store tens of thousands of songs, only makes sense if
you don’t have to pay tens of thousands of dollars for that music library.
Which, of course, many people don’t, since they get their music free from
friends or file-trading. So how much of Apple’s $4 billion in annual iPod
sales should be credited to Free?
Likewise, how much of MySpace’s $65 billion estimated value is due
to the free music bands put there? How much of the $2 billion concert
business is driven by P2P file sharing? And so on. Free creates a lot of
value around it, but like many things that don’t travel in the monetary
economy, it’s hard to properly quantify. What’s the value of a rainstorm
or a sunny day? Both enrich the land, but the benefits are too diffuse to
tabulate with any precision.
So what’s the bottom line? Including both the first and second categories
(ads and freemium), it’s pretty easy to get to $80 billion in total revenues
in the United States alone. Expand that to the traditional ad-supported
media, and you can get to $116 to $150 billion. Go worldwide, and you
can easily triple those figures, so that’s at least $300 billion globally.
So $300 billion is a fair back-of-the-envelope guess at the Free economy,
conservatively defined. It’s certainly an undercount, because it doesn’t
consider the original form of Free—the cross-subsidy (get one thing “free,”
pay for another)—at all. It also doesn’t do justice to the true impact of
Free, which is felt as much in nonmonetary terms as it is in dollars and
cents. But it does give a sense of scale: There’s a lot of Free out there,
and lot of money to be made off it.
A last way to calculate the size of the Free world is to look at the labor
expended there. For instance, in 2008 Ohloh, a company that tracks the
open source industry, listed 201,453 people currently working on a
whopping 146,970 projects. That’s approximately the size of the GM
workforce, which is a lot of people working for free, even if not full-time.
Imagine if they were producing automobiles! The author Kevin Kelly has

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

136

13:48

l

Page 136

CHRIS ANDERSON

taken this analysis to the overall Web. He notes that Google has calculated that the Web has more than 1 trillion unique URLs. (It’s difficult
to know what to count as a unique page, because a catalog can generate
a different view for every visitor with every click, although Google is pretty
good at distinguishing between those and hand-coded links.)
Let’s say, for the sake of back-of-the-envelope calculations, that on
average each page (or post or anything else with a permalink) takes one
hour of research, composition, design, or programming to produce. Then
the Web represents 1 trillion hours of labor.
One trillion hours over the fifteen years we’ve been building the
Web is the equivalent of 32 million people working full-time over that
period. Let’s say 40 percent of that was done for free—the Facebook and
MySpace pages, the blogs, the countless discussion group posts and
comments. That’s 13 million people—almost the working population of
Canada. What would their salaries be worth, if they were paid? At a
bargain rate of $20,000, that would be more than $260 billion a year.
Free is, in short, a country-sized economy, and not a little one, either.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 137

FREE ECONOMICS AND THE FREE WORLD

11
ECON 000
HOW A CENTURY-OLD JOKE BECAME
THE LAW OF DIGITAL ECONOMICS

In 1838, Antoine Cournot, a French mathematician living in Paris,

published Recherches, now considered an economic masterpiece (although
not many thought so at the time). In the book he attempted to model
how companies compete, and concluded, after a lot of math, that it all
had to do with the amount they produced. If one factory was making
bowls and another company wanted to open a factory that also made
bowls, it would be careful not to make too many, for fear of flooding the
market with bowls and driving the price down. The two firms would
somehow simultaneously and independently regulate their production to
keep prices as high as possible.
The book was, as is often the case for even the most inspired works,
promptly ignored. The members of the French Liberal School, who
dominated the economics profession in France at the time, were uninterested, leaving Cournot dispirited and bitter. (He nevertheless went on
to have a distinguished career, won lots of awards, and died in 1877.) But
after his death, a group of younger economists returned to Recherches and
concluded that Cournot had been unjustly neglected by his contemporaries. They called for his competition models to be reexamined.
So, in 1883, another French mathematician, Joseph Bertrand, decided

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

138

13:48

l

Page 138

CHRIS ANDERSON

to give Recherches a proper review. He hated it. Bertrand argued that
Cournot had reached the wrong conclusion on practically everything.
Indeed, Bertrand thought that Cournot’s use of production volume as the
key unit of competition was so arbitrary that he, half-jokingly, reworked
Cournot’s model with prices, not output, as the key variable. Oddly, in
doing so he found a model that was just as neat, if not neater.
Bertrand concluded that rather than limit output to raise prices and
increase profits, companies would more likely lower prices to gain market
share. Indeed, they would attempt to undercut each other until the price
was just above the cost of production, which is called “marginal cost
pricing.” And if the lower prices encouraged greater demand, so much
the better.
Bertrand Competition can be shorthanded like this:
In a competitive market, price falls to the marginal cost.

Of course, in those days there weren’t many truly competitive markets,
at least not the way these mathematicians’ models defined them: with
homogeneous products (no product differentiation) and no collusion. So
other economists dismissed the two as theoreticians trying to unnecessarily
fit complex human behavior into stiff equations, and for the next few
decades the spat was forgotten as yet another academic dispute.
But as economics moved into the twentieth century and markets became
competitive and more measureable, researchers returned to these two
feuding Frenchmen. Generations of economics graduate students
labored to figure out which industries lent themselves more to Cournot
Competition and which to Bertrand Competition. I’ll spare you the
details, but the short form is this: In abundant markets, where it’s easy to
make more stuff, Bertrand tends to win; price often does fall to the marginal
cost.
That would still be of mostly academic interest were it not for the fact
that today we are building the most competitive market the world has ever
seen, one where the marginal cost of products and services is close to zero.
Online, where information is a commodity and products and services can
be easily copied, we are seeing Bertrand Competition playing out in a
way that would have amazed even Bertrand.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 139

l

139

If “price falls to the marginal cost” is the law, then free is not just an
option, it’s the inevitable endpoint. It’s the force of economic gravity, and
you can only fight it for so long. Yikes.
But wait. Isn’t software another market with near-zero marginal costs?
And doesn’t Microsoft charge hundreds of dollars for Office and Windows?
Yes and yes. So how does that square with the theory?
The answer lies in that part about “competitive market.” Microsoft
created a product that benefited hugely from network effects: The more
people use a product, the more other people feel compelled to do the same.
In the case of an operating system like Windows, that’s because the most
popular operating system will attract the most software developers to create
the most programs to run on it. In the case of Office, it’s because you
want to exchange files with other people, so you’re inclined to use the
same program they use.
Both of these examples tend to produce winner-take-all markets, which
is how Microsoft created a monopoly. And when you’ve got a monopoly,
you can charge “monopoly rents,” which is to say $300 for two plastic
disks in a box marked “Office,” when the actual cost of making those disks
is just a dollar or two.
The other thing about Bertrand Competition is that it applies mostly
to products that are similar. But if one product is vastly superior to another
for your purposes the primary determinant of price is not marginal cost
but “marginal utility”—what it’s worth to you. Online, that can reflect
either the features of the service or how locked into it you are.
For instance, there are many social networks out there, but if all of
your own social connections are on Facebook, you may be loath to leave
it, even if it were to begin charging. Its marginal utility is so much higher
for you than the other social networks that you’d be willing to pay for it.
But for newcomers who have not yet built their web of connections on
a site, the marginal utility of the popular social networks might look more
similar. Given a choice between two popular social networks—a paid
Facebook and a free MySpace, say—newcomers would tend to choose
the free one. And that’s why Facebook doesn’t charge: Its existing members
might pay, but it would start losing a share of new members to free
competitors.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

140

13:48

l

Page 140

CHRIS ANDERSON

MONOPOLIES AREN’T WHAT
THEY USED TO BE
The latter half of the twentieth century was full of winner-take-all markets—
jaw-droppingly high profit margins (90 percent, 95 percent, even higher)
that seemed to exhibit the very opposite of Bertrand Competition. It wasn’t
just software, but anything where the value of the product lay mostly in
its intellectual property, not its material properties. Pharmaceutical drugs
(the pills cost almost nothing to produce, but the research to invent them
can cost hundreds of millions of dollars), semiconductor chips (ditto),
even Hollywood (movies are expensive to make but cheap to reproduce)
all fall into this category.
These industries benefit from something called “increasing returns,”
which is to say that while the fixed costs of the product (R&D, building
the factory, etc.) may be high, if the marginal costs are low, the more you
make, the higher your profit margin. The rewards for pursuing a “max”
strategy is that it spreads your fixed costs over a greater number of units,
allowing your profit to go up with each one.
There is nothing very new about this. Even Alfred Marshall, the
Victorian economist who was the first to formalize the supply and
demand model, described industries where the availability of skilled
labor, the presence of specialized suppliers, and the diffusion of knowledge
progressively lower costs. (His prime example was cutlery makers in
Sheffield, England, who were able to apply Industrial Revolution techniques to mass-produce silverware.) But “increasing returns” traditionally
refers to increasing returns on production. The digital markets also benefit
from increasing returns on consumption, where products get more valuable
the more they are consumed, creating a virtuous cycle that can create
market dominance.
Of course this only works if you can keep competition at bay, and the
reason those profit margins were so high is that the twentieth century was
full of effective ways to do that. Along with monopolies, there are patents,
copyright and trademark protection, trade secrets and strong-arm tactics
with retailers to keep competitors off the shelf.
The problem with most of these competition-killing strategies is that

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 141

l

141

they don’t work as well as they used to. Piracy, from software and content
to pharmaceuticals, is growing as the technologies of duplication (from
your laptop to biomedical equipment) become widespread. The largest
manufacturing country in the world, China, makes pursuing patent
protection difficult. And as distribution moves online, where there is infinite
shelf space, it’s impossible to keep competitors away from consumers, no
matter how much pull you have at Wal-Mart. The Internet, by combining
the democratized tools of production (computers) with democratized tools
of distribution (networks), conjured the very thing that Bertrand had only
imagined: a truly competitive market.
Suddenly a theoretical economic model, invented more than a century
ago as a joke to ridicule another economist, became the law of pricing
online.
It’s too soon to say monopolies are no longer to be feared online. Those
same network effects that gave Microsoft its stranglehold on the desktop
work just as well on the Web, as Google has all too ably demonstrated.
But what’s interesting about online quasi-monopolies is that they rarely
bring monopoly rents with them. For all Google’s dominance, it doesn’t
charge $300 for its word processors and spreadsheets—it gives them away
(Google Docs). Even for things it does charge for, mostly advertising space,
the price is set by auction, not by Google.
So, too, for all the number ones in the big online product categories,
from Facebook to eBay. For all their power, they have precious little pricing
power. Facebook can only charge rock-bottom ad rates of less than a dollar
per thousand views, and every time eBay tries to raise its listing fees its
sellers threaten to leave, which, given the abundance of alternatives online,
is no empty threat.
Then how do they make their billions? Scale. Not quite the old joke
about losing money with each sale but making it up with volume, but instead
losing money with a lot of people and making it back with a relative few.
Because these companies pursue the max strategy, that relative few can
still amount to thousands or millions of people. That’s great news for
consumers, who are getting products and services cheaply, but what about
companies that can’t go max? After all, for every Google and Facebook,
there are hundreds of thousands of companies that never get beyond
niche markets.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

142

13:48

l

Page 142

CHRIS ANDERSON

For them, there is no one answer: Every market is different. Free is a
constant attraction across all markets, but making money around Free,
especially when you don’t have millions of users (and sometimes even
when you do), is a matter of creative thinking and constant experimentation,
of which the examples at the back of this book are just a small sample.

FREE IS JUST ANOTHER VERSION
The economic principles behind those models fall mostly into the four
kinds of Free we’ve already discussed. And economics has no problem
with prices of zero. Pricing theory is based on what’s called “versioning,”
where different customers pay different prices. Beers at Happy Hour are
cheap in the hopes that some customers will stay on and keep drinking
when they’re expensive.
The fundamental idea behind versioning involves selling similar
products to different customers at different prices. When you decide
between regular and premium gas, you’re experiencing versioning, and
so, too, when you see a matinee movie at half price or get a senior citizen
discount. This is the core of freemium: One of the versions is free, but
the others are paid. Or, to mangle Marx, to each according to her needs,
from each according to her ability to open her wallet.
Another way that pricing theory can invoke Free is with flat-fee
(“all you can eat”) prices. You can see this in examples such as Netflix’s
DVD-by-mail rentals. For a fixed monthly subscription you can rent as
many DVDs as you want, three at a time. Although you’re still paying,
you’re not paying for each incremental DVD that you consume (even
the postage is free). So the perceived cost of watching a DVD, sending
it back, and getting a new one is effectively zero. It “feels free,” even
though you’re paying a monthly fee for the privilege.
This is an example of what economists call near-zero “marginal price,”
which is not to be confused with near-zero marginal cost. The first is
experienced by the consumers, the second by the producers. But the best
model is when you can combine the two, which is what Netflix does.
Netflix’s costs are mostly fixed: getting subscribers, keeping them,
building distribution warehouses and developing software, and buying

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 143

l

143

DVDs. The marginal costs of sending out more DVDs are pretty low—a
little postage, some labor (although it’s highly automated), and
some incremental royalties—especially compared to the benefit to the
subscribers of such choice and convenience. So when Netflix aligns its
economic interest (spread the fixed costs over more DVDs, to lower the
marginal costs) with that of its customers (flat fees make renting more
DVDs feel costless), everybody wins.
In a sense, Netflix is like a gym. The fixed costs are setting up and
staffing the gym. The less you use it, the more the company makes, since
it can serve more members with less capacity if most of them don’t show
up most days. Likewise, Netflix makes more money if you don’t send back
your videos to be replaced often. But the difference is that you don’t feel
as bad about your low usage as you might with a gym. With Netflix you
don’t have to pay late fees if you keep a video for a few weeks, and
compared to the alternative, that counts as a win.
You can see this near-zero marginal price model all around you, from
the luncheon buffet to your cell phone and broadband Internet access
plan. In each case, a flat fee takes the negative psychology of marginal
price—the ticking meter or the feeling of being “nickeled and dimed”—
off the table, making consumers more comfortable about their consumption. It works if they consume a lot, because it’s usually matched with a
low marginal cost production model, and it works even better (at least for
the producer!) if they consume a little. As Hal Varian, Google’s chief
economist (and a pioneer in formalizing the economics of Free) puts it,
“Who is the gym’s favorite customer? It’s the guy who pays his membership fee and then doesn’t go.”
So Free is not new to economics. It is, however, often misunderstood.
One of the most famous principles that it challenges is the so-called
“free-rider problem.”

THE FREE-RIDER NON-PROBLEM
Russell Roberts, a George Mason economist, has a popular podcast called
EconTalk (which is excellent). On one show in 2008, he observed the
following:

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

144

13:48

l

Page 144

CHRIS ANDERSON

One of the things that fascinates me about [Wikipedia] is that I think if
you’d asked an economist in 1950, 1960, 1970, 1980, 1990, even 2000,
“could Wikipedia work,” most of them would say no. They’d say, “Well, it
can’t work, you see, because you get so little glory from this. There’s no
profit. Everyone’s gonna free ride. They’d love to read Wikipedia if it
existed, but no one’s going to create it because there’s a free-riding problem.”
And those folks were wrong. They misunderstood the pure pleasure that
overcomes some of that free-rider problem.

The free-rider problem is the dark side of the free lunch. Like the
“free-lunch fiend” lingering in the saloon, free riders are those who
consume more than their fair share of a resource, or shoulder less than a
fair share of the costs of its production. But since “fair” is totally subjective,
this is only considered a problem in economics when it leads to market
breakdowns. So when some greedy undergrads empty the all-you-can-eat
lunch buffet, causing the management to remove the buffet entirely, that
would be an example of free riders running riot.
But as Timothy Lee, a computer scientist and Cato Institute scholar,
has noted, the twentieth-century interpretation of this problem doesn’t
really work anymore, for two reasons. First, it assumes that the cost of the
resource being consumed is high enough to care about or, to put it another
way, that those costs must be compensated. That may be true for the
lunch buffet, but it’s not true for things that people happily do for free
in hopes of an audience, which describes most content online. Reading
them is payment enough.
And second, it grossly misjudges the effect of the Internet’s scale. As we
saw before, if you’re the only class parent volunteer, you may eventually
object to all the other parents “free riding” on your work without pitching
in to help. It may upset you enough that you quit. In that case, perhaps
10 or 20 percent of the parents have to contribute to avoid the risk of the
whole system breaking down.
But online, where the numbers are so much higher, most volunteer
communities thrive when just 1 percent of the participants contribute.
Far from being a problem, a large number of passive consumers is the
reward for the few that contribute—they’re called the audience.
As Lee puts it, “This large audience acts as a powerful motivator
for continued contribution to the site. People like to contribute to an

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 145

l

145

encyclopedia with a large readership; indeed, the enormous number of
‘free riders’—aka users—is one of the most appealing things about being
a Wikipedia editor.”
In other words, it doesn’t take a PhD to understand why Free works
so well online. You just have to ignore the first ten chapters or so of your
economics textbook.
The rest of this last section will look at the many sides of what’s different
about Free today. We’ll start with the efforts to quantify nonmonetary
markets such as attention and reputation, and sometimes convert them
to cash. We’ll then look at that paradoxical word “waste,” which we’re
trained to avoid but should instead often pursue. (Once scarce things
become abundant, markets treat them differently—exploiting the cheap
commodity to create something else of more value.) Then on to China
and Brazil, modern test beds of Free. And then a quick stop in fiction,
where abundance as a plot device has forced authors to consider the
consequences. Finally, we debate the many objections to Free, from those
who question its power to those who fear it.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 146

12
NONMONETARY ECONOMIES
WHERE MONEY DOESN’T RULE,
WHAT DOES?

In 1971, at the dawning of the Information Age, the social scientist Herbert
Simon wrote:
In an information-rich world, the wealth of information means a dearth of
something else: a scarcity of whatever it is that information consumes. What
information consumes is rather obvious: it consumes the attention of its
recipients. Hence a wealth of information creates a poverty of attention.

What Simon was observing was a manifestation of one of the oldest rules
in economics: “Every abundance creates a new scarcity.” We tend to value
most what we don’t already have in plentitude. For example, an abundance of free coffee at work awakens a need for much better coffee, for
which we are willing to pay a lot. And so, too, for any premium good
that arises from a sea of inexpensive commodity products, from artisanal
food to designer water.
“It is quite true that man lives by bread alone—when there is little
bread,” observed Abraham Maslow in his groundbreaking 1943 article,
“A Theory of Human Motivation.” “But what happens to man’s desires
when there is plenty of bread and when his belly is chronically filled?”

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 147

l

147

His answer, expressed in his now famous “pyramid of needs,” was
this: “At once other (and higher) needs emerge, and these, rather than
physiological hungers, dominate the organism.” At the base of his pyramid
are physical needs, such as food and water. Above that is safety. The next
higher level is love and belonging, then esteem, and finally, at the top,
is “self actualization,” with pursuits of meaning such as creativity.
The same sort of pyramid can be applied to information. Once our
hunger for basic knowledge and entertainment is satisfied, we become
more discriminating about exactly what knowledge and entertainment we
want, and in the process learn more about ourselves and what drives us.
This ultimately turns many of us from passive consumers to active
producers, motivated by the psychic rewards of creating.
Normally in the consumer marketplace, our scarcity of money helps
us navigate the abundance of products available to us—we only buy what
we can afford (credit card balances notwithstanding). This is also how
capitalism “keeps score” of consumer demand, by what consumers are
willing to pay for. But what happens online, where more and more
products are encoded into software and thus can be offered for free? No
longer is money the most important signal in the marketplace. Instead,
two nonmonetary factors rise in its place.
These two are what are often called the “attention economy” and the
“reputation economy.” Of course there is nothing new about marketplaces
of attention and reputation. Every TV show has to compete in the first and
every brand has to compete in the second. A celebrity builds reputation
and converts it into attention. But what’s unique about the online experience is how measurable the two are, and how they are becoming more
like a real economy every day.
What defines an “economy”? Until the mid-1700s, the word “economy”
was mostly used in politics and law. But Adam Smith gave the term its
modern meaning when he defined economics as the study of markets, in
particular what we now shorthand as “the science of choice under scarcity.”
Today, economics studies more than just monetary markets. Since the
1970s such subspecialties as behavioral economics and “neuroeconomics”
have emerged, all attempting to explain why people make the choices
they do based on the incentives they experience. Attention and reputation are often part of these even if they’re not formally defined as a market.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

148

13:48

l

Page 148

CHRIS ANDERSON

There have been some clever attempts to use the language of economics
to describe attention markets, such as this nifty pirouette from Georg
Franck, a German economist, in 1999:
If the attention I pay to others is valued in proportion to the amount of
attention earned by me, then an accounting system is set in motion which
quotes something like the social share prices of individual attention.
It is in this secondary market that social ambition thrives. It is this stock
exchange of attentive capital that gives precise meaning to the expression
“vanity fair.”

When it came time to quantify attention back then, however, all Franck
could measure was “a person’s presence in the media,” whatever that means.
But what if we could treat attention and reputation as quantitatively
as we do money? What if we could formalize them into proper markets
so we could explain and predict them with many of the same equations
that economists use in traditional monetary economics? To do so, we’d
need attention and reputation to exhibit the same characteristics of other
traditional currencies: to be measurable, finite, and convertible.
We’re actually coming close, thanks to the 1989 creation of Tim
Berners-Lee: the modern hyperlink. It’s a simple thing—just a string of
characters starting with “http:// ”—but what it created was a formal language
for the exchange of attention and reputation, and currencies for both.
Today when you link to someone on your blog, you are effectively granting
them some of your own reputation. In a sense, you are saying to your
own audience: “Leave me. Go to this other place. I think you’ll like it,
and if you do, perhaps you’ll think more of me for having recommended
it. And if you think more of me, perhaps you’ll come back to my site
more often.”
Ideally, this transfer of reputation leaves both parties richer. Good
recommendations build trust with a readership, and being recommended
confers trust, too. And with trust comes traffic.
Now we have a real marketplace of reputation—it’s Google. What is
the currency of reputation online other than Google’s PageRank algorithm,
which measures the incoming links that define the network of opinion
that is the Web? And what better measure of attention than Web traffic?

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 149

l

149

PageRank is a deceptively simple idea with great power. It basically
states that incoming links are like votes, and that incoming links from
sites which themselves have lots of incoming links count for more than
those that don’t. This is the sort of calculation only a computer can do,
since it requires having the entire link structure of the Web in memory
and recursively analyzing each link. (Interestingly, PageRank is based on
earlier work on a much smaller scale in scientific publishing. An author’s
reputation can be calculated by how many other authors cite him or her
in their footnotes, a process called citation analysis. There is no more
explicit reputation economy than academic reputation, which dictates
everything from tenure to grants.)
In economic terms, we convert from the reputation economy to the
attention economy to cash by using this formula: The economic value of
your site is the traffic your PageRank (a number between one and nine)
brings from Google’s search results for any given term, times the keyword
value for that term. (Higher PageRank means more traffic, since you’ll
appear earlier in the search results.) And you can convert that traffic into
plain old cash by simply running AdSense ads on your site and splitting
the revenues with Google.
Like it or not, we all live in the Google economy these days in at least
some of our life. On a typical site, between a quarter and a half of all
traffic comes from Google searches. An entire industry, called “search
engine optimization,” exists to help sites increase their visibility in the
eyes of Google. PageRank is the gold standard of reputation.
That makes Google cofounder Larry Page (the punning Page in PageRank) the central banker of the Google economy. He and his Google
colleagues control the money supply. They tweak the algorithm constantly
to ensure that it retains its value. As the Web grows, they avoid PageRank
“inflation” by making it harder to earn. If they see PageRank counterfeiting, in the form of linkspam, they adjust the algorithm to take it out
of circulation. They maintain the value of their currency by working to
keep their search results more relevant than their competitors’, which will
maintain Google’s market share (currently a dominant 70 percent). Alan
Greenspan’s job was not so different.
But just as with real central bankers these days, controlling one currency
is far from controlling the entire economy. Think of Google as the United

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

150

13:48

l

Page 150

CHRIS ANDERSON

States of the Web—only the biggest of many reputation and attention
economies. It’s not a closed economy, since it’s just part of the bigger
Web economy. And around it are countless other reputation and attention
economies, each with its own currencies.
Facebook and MySpace have “friends.” EBay has seller and buyer
ratings. Twitter has “followers,” Slashdot has “karma,” and so on. In each
case, people can build reputational capital and turn it into attention. It
is up to each to figure out how to convert that to money, if that’s what
he or she wants (most don’t), but the quantification of attention and
reputation is now a global endeavor. It is a market we all now play in,
whether we know it or not. Reputation that was once intangible is now
increasingly concrete.
On the Web, all these economies coexist and ebb and flow with the
tides of attention—even if they wanted to control attention entirely, they
can’t. But there is a growing class of closed online economies where the
central bankers have far more power. These are online games, from
Warhammer to Lineage, which typically use two currencies: an attention
currency, where players earn virtual money with their gameplay, and real
money, which they can use to buy virtual money if they don’t want to
take the time to earn it.
In each of these games, the companies behind them take their role of
central banker seriously. If the Warhammer developers don’t keep a cap
on the gold supply, its value will fall and the resale market will collapse.
Game designers often bring in academic economists to help design their
in-game economies, to avoid all the ills of real-world economies, from
insufficient liquidity to fraud.
But in the end, all these games pivot around the ultimate scarcity:
time. Time really is money, and at the core of these game economies
there is a trade-off between them. Younger players may have more time
than money, and they can accumulate attention currencies with their
clicks. Older players may have more money than time, and they can buy
shortcuts. Game designers try to get the balance of those two right, so
players can compete and advance either way. And as designers do so, they
are creating some of the most quantified nonmonetary economies the
world has ever seen.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 151

l

151

THE GIFT ECONOMY
In 1983, sociologist Lewis Hyde wrote The Gift, one of the first books to
try to explain the mechanics of one of the oldest social traditions: giving
people things without charge. He focused mostly on Pacific Island and
other “native” societies that had not adopted formal monetary economies.
Instead, stature was established through gift exchanges and rituals—
cultural currencies substituted for money.
Many of these societies lived amid abundant natural resources—food
really did grow on trees—so their basic substance needs were provided
by nature. Because of this, they could move up Maslow’s pyramid and focus
on social needs. Gifts played the role of social cement: In the case of
some Native American tribes, the implicit rule of a gift was that it carried
with it an obligation to reciprocate (“return the gift”). Gifts should also
not be kept but instead regifted to others (“the gift must always move”).
Today, we think of the term “Indian giver” as a pejorative, but it stems
from what Hyde observed: In those cultures, one could never really own
a gift. Instead, it was a symbol of goodwill, and only retained that if it
remained in circulation.
Hyde focused mostly on gift economies of things—actual objects
exchanged (as we’re seeing today with Freecycle). But there has always
been a much larger gift economy of deeds, the things we do for each
other without charge. As with the attention and reputation economies, this
ephemeral gift economy has suddenly become explicit and measureable
as it moves online.
In the traditional media business, where I work, you’ve got to pay
people to write. A buck a word is the bottom of the range. Really good
writers can get three bucks a word or more. If I was writing this sentence
for a glossy magazine (and flattered myself by charging top dollar), I would
have just earned $23. But something’s changed. At last count there were
12 million active blogs, people or groups of people writing at least once
a week, generating billions of words. No more than a few thousand of
these writers are paid to do it.
You can see this everywhere, from Amazon’s amateur product reviewers
to the film buffs who have made IMDB the most comprehensive

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

152

13:48

l

Page 152

CHRIS ANDERSON

compendium of film and filmmaker information in the world. Some of
it is the informal posts in the support groups of countless discussion forums,
but it can also include projects that took weeks or months of work, such
as player-created video game guides and catalogs of everything (there
are a lot of “completionists” out there who love becoming the world’s
foremost expert on something, and sharing it with all).
There is nothing new about this—people have always been creating
and contributing for free. We didn’t call what they did “work” because it
wasn’t paid, but every time you give someone free advice or volunteer
for something, you’re doing something that in a different context could
be somebody’s job. Now the professionals and amateurs are suddenly in
the same marketplace of attention, and these parallel worlds are now in
competition. And there are a lot more amateurs than professionals.
What motivates the amateur creatives, if not money? Many people
assume that the gift economy is driven mostly by generosity, but as Hyde
observed in Pacific Islanders, it’s usually not quite so altruistic. Adam
Smith got it right: Enlightened self-interest is the most powerful force in
humanity. People do things for free mostly for their own reasons: for fun,
because they have something to say, because they want people to pay
attention to them, because they want their own views to gain currency,
and countless other very personal reasons.
In 2007, Andy Oram, an editor at O’Reilly Media, looked out at the
amazing variety of user-generated documentation—instruction manuals
for software, hardware, and games, that go beyond what the original
creators provided—and wondered what motivated people to do it. He ran
a survey for a year and then tabulated the results. The top reason was
“community”—people felt part of a community and wanted to contribute
to its vitality. The second was “personal growth,” which harkens back to
Maslow’s highest level, self-actualization. Third came “mutual support,”
which suggests that many such contributors are what sociologists call
“mavens”—people with knowledge who enjoy sharing it. (Interestingly,
reputation figured relatively low among the motivations in Oram’s survey.)
And where do people find the time? By not doing something else—
abandoning things that don’t return the same social and emotional rewards.
Imagine if we could harness just a fraction of the human potential lost
watching TV. (Actually, there’s no need to imagine that: Rating trends

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 153

l

153

suggest that TV watching has already peaked, and we’re increasingly
choosing the screens that allow us to both produce and consume.)
In a world where food, shelter, and the rest of Maslow’s subsistence
needs are met without having to labor in the fields from dawn to dusk,
we find ourselves with “spare cycles,” or what sociologists call “cognitive
surplus”—energy and knowledge not fully tapped by our jobs. At the same
time we have emotional and intellectual needs that aren’t fully satisfied
at work, either. What our “free labor” in an area that we value grants us
is respect, attention, expression, and an audience.
In short, doing things we like without pay often makes us happier than
the work we do for a salary. You still have to eat, but as Maslow showed,
there is more to life than that. The opportunity to contribute in a way
that is both creative and appreciated is exactly the sort of fulfillment that
Maslow privileged above all other aspirations, and what many jobs so
seldom provide. No wonder the Web exploded, driven by volunteer labor—
it made people happy to be creative, to contribute, to have an impact,
and to be recognized as expert in something. The potential for such a
nonmonetary production economy has been in our society for centuries,
waiting for the social systems and tools to emerge to fully realize it. The
Web provided those tools, and suddenly a market of free exchange arose.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 154

13
WASTE IS (SOMETIMES) GOOD
THE BEST WAY TO EXPLOIT ABUNDANCE
IS TO RELINQUISH CONTROL

Every now and then at work I get an email from the IT department
telling us that it’s time for employees to “delete unneeded files from the
shared folders,” which is the IT way of saying that they’ve run out of
storage capacity on their computers. Because we’re good corporate citizens,
we all diligently look at our folders on the server and scan through the
files to see if we really need them, deleting those we can do without.
Perhaps you’ve done the same.
One day, after years of doing this, I started to wonder just how much
storage the IT department actually had for our office. To give you a sense
of perspective on the answer, a terabyte of storage (1,000 GB) cost about
$130 at the time I asked. Recently, when we got a standard Dell desktop
PC at home, which my children use to play games, it came with a terabyte
hard drive built in.
So how much storage did we have for my whole office? Turns out, not
so much: 500 GB—one-half terabyte. My children had twice as much
storage as my entire workplace.
How did this happen? The answer is simple: Somehow we got stuck
thinking that storage was expensive when in fact it had become dirt cheap.
We treated the abundant thing—hard drive capacity—as if it were scarce,

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 155

l

155

and the scarce thing—people’s time—as if it were abundant. We got the
equation backward. (Let me hasten to add that my office quickly added
a heap of storage and those emails don’t go out anymore!)
This happens all over the place. When your phone company tells you
that your voice mail box is full, that’s artificial scarcity—it costs less than
a nickel to store one hundred voice messages, and the average iPod could
store thirty thousand of them (voice messages are recorded at lower quality
than music, so they take less space). By forcing subscribers to take the
time to delete voice mails, the phone companies were saving a little money
in storage costs by spending a lot of consumer time. They managed the
scarcity they could measure (storage) but neglected to manage the much
larger scarcity of their customers’ goodwill. No wonder phone companies
are second only to cable TV companies in the “most hated” rankings.
This is a lesson about embracing waste. Just as Carver Mead preached
the sermon of wasting transistors and Alan Kay responded by wasting them
on the eye candy that made computers easier to use, so today’s innovators
are the ones who spot the new abundances and figure out how to squander
them. In a good way!
But the funny thing about waste is that it’s all relative to your sense of
scarcity. Our grandparents grew up in an age when a long-distance telephone call was an expensive luxury, to be scheduled and kept short. Even
today many people find it hard to keep people of that generation on a
long-distance call for long—they still hear a meter ticking in their head
and rush to finish. But our kids are growing up in an age where longdistance is free on their cell phones. They’ll happily chat for hours. From
the perspective of 1950s telecommunications costs, that’s incredibly
wasteful. But today, when those costs have fallen to near zero, we don’t
give it a second thought. It doesn’t feel like waste. In other words, one
generation’s scarcity is another’s abundance.

NATURE WASTES LIFE
Our brains seem wired to resist waste, but as mammals we are relatively
unique in nature for this. Mammals have the fewest offspring in the animal
kingdom, and as a result we invest huge time and care in protecting each

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

156

13:48

l

Page 156

CHRIS ANDERSON

one so that it can reach adulthood. The death of a single human is a
tragedy, one that survivors sometimes never recover from, and we price
the individual life above all.
As a result, we have a very developed sense of the morality of waste.
We feel bad about the unloved toy or the uneaten food. Sometimes
this is for good reason, because we understand the greater social cost of
profligacy, but often it’s just because our mammalian brains are
programmed that way.
However, the rest of nature doesn’t work like that. A bluefin tuna can
release as many as 10 million fertilized eggs in a spawning season. Perhaps
ten will make it to adulthood. A million die for every one that survives.
Nature wastes life in search of better life. It mutates DNA, creating
failure after failure, in the hopes that every now and then a new sequence
will outcompete those that came before, and the species will evolve. Nature
tests its creations by killing most of them quickly, the battle “red in tooth
and claw” that determines reproductive advantage.
The reason nature is so wasteful is that scattershot strategies are the
best way to do what mathematicians call “fully exploring the potential
space.” Imagine a desert landscape with two pools of water separated by
some distance. If you’re a plant growing next to one of those pools, you
can have one of two different reproductive strategies. You can drop seeds
near your roots, where there’s a pretty good chance water can be found.
This is safe, but soon leads to crowding. Or you can toss the seeds into
the air and let them float far away. This means that almost all will die,
but it’s the only way to find that second pool of water, where life can
expand into a new niche, perhaps a richer one. The way to get from what
the mathematicians call a “local maxima” to the “global maxima” is to
explore a lot of fruitless “minima” along the way. It’s wasteful, but it can
pay off in the end.
Cory Doctorow, the science fiction writer, calls this “thinking like a
dandelion.” He writes:
The disposition of each—or even most—of the seeds isn’t the important
thing, from a dandelion’s point of view. The important thing is that
every spring, every crack in every pavement is filled with dandelions.
The dandelion doesn’t want to nurse a single precious copy of itself in

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 157

l

157

the hopes that it will leave the nest and carefully navigate its way to the
optimum growing environment, there to perpetuate the line. The dandelion
just wants to be sure that every single opportunity for reproduction is
exploited!

This is how to embrace waste. Seeds are too cheap to meter. It feels
wrong, even alien, to throw so much away, but it’s the right way to
properly take advantage of abundance.
Just consider the Roomba robotic vacuum cleaner. It’s difficult to watch
it and not feel sorry for its stupidity, as it bounces haphazardly around
the room, retracing its steps and missing obvious patches of dirt. But eventually, somehow, the carpet gets clean as this random walk eventually
covers every square inch. It may take an hour to do what you could do
in five minutes, but it’s not your time, it’s the machine’s. And the machine
has plenty of time.

MAKING THE WORLD SAFE FOR CAT VIDEOS
Perhaps the best example of a glorious embrace of waste is YouTube. I
often hear people complain that YouTube is no threat to television because
it’s “full of crap,” which is, I suppose, true. The problem is that none of
us can agree on what “crap” is, because we can’t agree on its opposite,
“quality.” You may be looking for funny cat videos, and my favorite
soldering tutorials are of no interest. I, meanwhile, want to see funny
video game stunts, and your cooking tutorial is of no interest. And videos
of our own charming family members are of course delightful to us and
totally boring to everyone else. Crap is in the eye of the beholder.
Even the most popular YouTube videos may totally fail the standard
Hollywood definition of production quality, in that the videos are lowresolution and badly lit, their sound quality awful and their plots nonexistent.
But none of that matters, because the most important thing is relevance.
We’ll always choose a “low-quality” video of something we actually want
over a “high-quality” video of something we don’t.
A few weekends ago it was time for my kids to choose how to spend
the two hours of “screen time” they’re allowed on Saturdays and Sundays.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

158

13:48

l

Page 158

CHRIS ANDERSON

I suggested that it was a great day for Star Wars and gave them a choice.
They could watch any of the six movies on magnificent DVD, on a huge
hi-def projection screen with surround sound audio and popcorn. Or they
could go on YouTube and watch Lego stop-motion animations of Star
Wars scenes created by nine-year-olds. It was no contest—they raced for
the computer.
It turns out that my kids, and many like them, aren’t really that interested in Star Wars as created by George Lucas. They’re more interested
in Star Wars as created by their peers, never mind the shaky cameras and
fingers in the frame. When I was growing up, there were many clever
products designed to extend the Star Wars franchise to kids, from toys to
lunch boxes, but as far as I know nobody thought of Lego stop-motion
animation created by children.
The demand for stop-action Star Wars must have always been there,
but just invisible because no marketer thought to offer it. But once we
had YouTube, and didn’t need a marketer’s permission to do things, an
invisible market suddenly emerged. Collectively, we found a category that
the marketers had missed. (There are dozens of other amateur Star Wars
markets like this, from fan fiction to the 501st Legion of grown-ups who
make their own amazing storm trooper suits and gather for reenactments.)
All those random videos on YouTube are just dandelion seeds in search
of fertile ground on which to land. In a sense, we’re “wasting video” in
search of better video, exploring the potential space of what the moving
picture can be. YouTube is a vast collective experiment to invent the
future of television, one thoughtless, wasteful upload at a time. Sooner
or later, through YouTube and others like it, every video that can be made
will be made, and every filmmaker that can be a filmmaker will become
one. Every possible niche will be explored. If you lower the costs of
exploring a space, you can be more indiscriminate in how you do it.
Nobody is deciding whether a video is good enough to justify the scarce
channel space it takes, because there is no scarce channel space. Distribution is now close enough to free to round down. Today, it costs about
$0.25 to stream one hour of video to one person. Next year it will be
$0.15. A year later it will be less than a dime. Which is why YouTube’s
founders decided to give it away, both gratis and libre. The result is messy
and runs counter to every instinct of a television professional, but this is

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 159

l

159

what abundance both requires and demands. If YouTube hadn’t done it,
someone else would have.
What this boils down to is the difference between abundance and
scarcity thinking. If you’re controlling scarce resources (the prime-time
broadcast schedule, say) you have to be discriminating. There are real
costs associated with those half-hour chunks of network time, and the
penalty for failing to reach tens of millions of viewers with them is calculated in red ink and lost careers. No wonder network executives fall back
on sitcom formulas and celebrities—they’re a safe bet in an expensive
game.
But if you’re tapping into abundant resources, you can afford to take
chances, since the cost of failure is so low. Nobody gets fired when your
YouTube video is only seen by your mom.
For all YouTube’s successes, however, it has so far failed to make any
money for Google. The company has not figured out how to match video
ads with content, the way it matches text ads with text content on the
Web. It doesn’t really know what the video you uploaded is about, and
even if it did, it probably doesn’t have a relevant video ad to match with
it. Meanwhile, advertisers are distinctly uncomfortable with their brands
being placed against user-generated content, which can be offensive.
The TV networks saw an opportunity in this failing and created a
competing video service, Hulu. It offers mostly commercial video, most
of it taken from TV, but is as convenient and accessible as YouTube.
Because this content is a known quantity, often the same thing that the
advertisers are already buying on TV, they’re happy to insert their commercials as pre-rolls, post-rolls, and even interruptions in the programming.
It’s free, of course, but unlike YouTube, you’re paying with your time and
annoyance—just like regular TV. But if it’s 30 Rock you want, and you
want it now, in your browser, this is the only way you’re going to get it.
SCARCITY MANAGEMENT
The YouTube model is totally free—free to watch, free to upload your
own video, free of interruptions. But it doesn’t make money. Hulu is only
free to watch, and you have to pay the good old-fashioned way, by watching
ads you may or may not care about. Yet it generates healthy revenues.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

160

13:48

l

Page 160

CHRIS ANDERSON

The two video outlets illustrate the tension between different models of
Free. Although consumers may prefer 100 percent free, a little artificial
scarcity is the best way to make money.
I see this every day as a magazine editor, where I live in both worlds.
In print, I operate by the rules of scarcity, since each page is expensive
and I’ve got a limited number of them. Since saying yes to a story proposal
is so costly, from the dozens of people who will be involved to the
factories that may someday print the words on the page, my job is to say
no to almost everything. Either that’s explicitly rejecting proposals or,
more typically, setting the bar so high that most proposals don’t get to me
in the first place. Because I’m responsible for allocating costly resources,
I fall back on a traditional top-down management hierarchy, with a chain
of approvals necessary to get something into print.
Not only are our pages expensive, they are also unchangeable. Once
the presses run, our mistakes and errors of judgment are preserved for
eternity (or at least until they’re recycled). When I make a decision in
the production process, we are committed to a path that it is expensive
to deviate from. If something better comes along, or my decision doesn’t
look as smart as it did a few weeks earlier, we sometimes have to continue
anyway, making the best of it. In this case, we are forced to focus on
economic costs, ignoring the potentially even larger opportunity costs of
all the paths not taken because of our scarcity-driven publishing model.
Online, however, pages are infinite and infinitely changeable. It’s an
abundance economy and invites a totally different management approach.
On our Web site we have dozens of bloggers, many of them amateurs,
who write what they want, without editing. On parts of the site we invite
users to contribute their own content. Our default response to story ideas
can be yes or, more to the point, “Why are you even asking me?” The cost
of a dull story is mostly that it won’t be read, not that it will displace a
potentially more interesting one. Successes rise to the top, while failures
fall to the bottom. Everything can get out there and compete for attention,
winning or losing on its merits, not a manager’s guesswork about what
people want.
The reality of managing these two worlds is not quite so black-andwhite, of course. Even though we have unlimited pages online, we still have
a reputation to keep up and a brand to preserve, so it’s no free-for-all.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 161

l

161

Instead, it’s a hybrid structure, where costs and control tend to move in
parallel; the lower the costs, the less control we have to exercise. Standards
such as accuracy and fairness apply across the board, but in print we have
to try to get everything right before publishing, at great expense, while
online we can correct as we go. Because we compete in both scarce and
abundant markets, one-size management structure doesn’t fit all—we need
to simultaneously pursue both control and chaos.
Sound schizophrenic? It’s just the nature of the hybrid world we’re
entering, where scarcity and abundance exist side by side. We’re good at
scarcity thinking—it’s the twentieth-century organizational model. Now
we have to get good at abundance thinking, too.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 162

14
FREE WORLD
CHINA AND BRAZIL ARE THE FRONTIERS OF FREE.
WHAT CAN WE LEARN FROM THEM?

I’m in a huge banquet hall in Guangzhou, China, sitting in the front row

of a spectacular show. We’ve already had the acrobatics, the kung fu exhibition, the dancing girls, and the comedy act. Now it’s time for the real
star, Taiwanese pop sensation Jolin Tsai. The audience cheers as she sings
some of her best-known numbers, her gown shimmering in the lights
against a backdrop of her face blown up to room size on a huge video
screen.
This is not a concert, however. It’s a sales meeting of China Mobile
employees and partners. We’ve had a day of speeches on the telecom
business, and it is just customary to finish off with a fancy show. For her
performance, Tsai was probably paid more than she earned from CD
sales all year.
China is a country where piracy has won. Years of halfhearted crackdowns under diplomatic pressure from the West have had no apparent
effect on the street vendors or countless sites that host MP3s for downloads. Every year there are some ceremonial piracy busts, and some of
the bigger Web sites occasionally have to pay fines, but none of this has
stopped average Chinese music consumers from finding pretty much
everything they want for free.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 163

l

163

So rather than fight piracy, a new breed of Chinese musician is
embracing it. Piracy is a form of zero-cost marketing, which brings their
work to the largest possible audience. That maximizes their celebrity (at
least for the brief duration of any Chinese pop star’s fame), and it is up
to them to find ways to convert that celebrity into cash.
Xiang Xiang is a twenty-one-year-old Chinese pop star, most famous
for her cheeky song “Song of Pig.” Her latest album sold nearly 4 million
copies. The problem is that almost all of them were pirated versions. Or
rather, that’s her label’s problem. She’s fine with it. As far as she’s concerned,
that’s 4 million fans she wouldn’t have had if they’d had to pay full price
for the album, and she likes the feedback and adulation. She also likes
the money she gets for personal appearances and product endorsements,
all made possible by her piracy-enabled fame. And then there’s the concert
tour, which should take her to fourteen cities this summer. The pirates
are her best marketers.
Piracy accounts for an estimated 95 percent of music consumption in
China, which has forced record companies to completely rethink what
business they’re in. Since they can’t make money from selling music on
plastic disks, they package it in other ways. They ask artists to record singles
for radio play instead of albums for consumers. They serve as a personal
talent agency for the singers, getting a cut of their fees for making commercials and radio spots. And even concerts are paid for by advertisers brokered
by the labels, which pack as many of their artists on stage as they can to
maximize the revenues from sponsors. The main problem is that the
singers complain that the endless touring, which provides their only
income, is tough on their vocal cords.
“China will become a model for the world music industry,” predicts
Shen Lihui, who runs Modern Sky, one of the more innovative Chinese
music labels. The company’s CDs rarely make money because the popular
ones are quickly pirated. But the label has other ways of making money:
producing videos and now, increasingly, Web sites. It also runs a threeday music festival that attracts fans from around the country. Ticket sales
are part of the revenues, but corporate sponsors are where the real money
is: Motorola, Levi’s, Diesel, and others.
That’s not to say that you can’t sell music in China: You can, as long as
the songs are less than twenty seconds long. The ringtone and ringback

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

164

13:48

l

Page 164

CHRIS ANDERSON

business is huge: China Mobile, the largest carrier, reported more than
a billion dollars in music revenues in 2007. Most of that was kept by
China Mobile, of course, but that’s still real money.
Ed Peto, a Briton living in Beijing, is trying to find another way to
turn music into a business. His company, MicroMu, signs emerging indie
artists and gets brands to sponsor the entire operation with a monthly fee.
The way it works may sound strange to a Western record label, but it
makes perfect sense to a product marketer in China, who is actually the
paying customer in the equation.
MicroMu records artists as cheaply as possible, either as a live recording
in front of an audience at a sponsored show or in inexpensive studio space
or a rehearsal room. They film everything surrounding these sessions and
make a range of branded video content from this. Each recording is
released through a blog post on the MicroMu site, complete with links
to free downloads of individual MP3s, full album downloads, credits,
artwork, etc. Then the company hosts regular live events, including
university tours.
Brands such as jeans and drink companies sponsor MicroMu, but
not the individual artists (to avoid tarnishing their indie credibility). A
percentage of the sponsorship money is divided up among the artists
according to how many downloads they get through the site.
“The moment you put a fee on accessing music in China is the moment
you cut off 99 percent of your audience,” says Peto. “Music is a luxury
for the middle class in China, a flippant expenditure. This model works
against that. We simply use free music and media as a way of saying that
‘everyone is welcome,’ building a dialogue, building a community,
becoming the trusted brand of the grassroots music movement in China.
To do this, though, we have to become all things to all men: record
label, online community, live events producers, merchandise sellers, TV
production company.”
As goes China, so may go the rest of the world. U.S. record sales fell
by nearly 15 percent in 2008, and the bottom is nowhere in sight. The
day may come when many labels simply capitulate and follow the Chinese
model, letting music go free to become marketing for the talent, whom
they monetize in nontraditional ways, such as endorsements and sponsorships. There are already some glimpses of this: The deal Madonna has

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 165

l

165

with Live Nation is based on a share of all her revenues, including touring
and merchandise. And talent agencies such as CAA and ICM are considering becoming music labels, to cut out the middleman. In a world
where the definition of the music industry is changing every day, the one
constant is that music creates celebrity. There are worse problems than
the challenge of turning fame into fortune.

THE CHANEL KNOCKOFF ECONOMY
Piracy doesn’t stop at film, software, and music in China. Just get off the
train in Shenzhen and you are immediately bombarded with knockoff
Rolex watches, Chanel perfume, and Gucci bags, and countless ersatz
toys and gadgets. Like the pirated CDs on the street corners, these aren’t
actually free, of course, they’re just very cheap; it’s only that the original
creators aren’t seeing a penny of the sales. The intellectual property rights
are free; you just pay for the commodity atoms. But as with music, the
roots and consequences of this piracy are more subtle than they appear.
Piracy extends to virtually every industry in China, a combination of
the state of development of the country and its legal systems and a
Confucian attitude toward intellectual property that makes copying the
work of others both a gesture of respect and an essential part of education. (It’s often hard to explain to Chinese students in the United States
what’s wrong with plagiarism, since reproducing the masters is so central
to Chinese teaching.) Today, an entire industry exists in China to clone
designer goods overnight: Software allows factories to take photographs of
Fashion Week models off the Web and produce simulations of designer
clothing within a couple of months, often beating the originals to the
stores.
In the Western press, Chinese piracy is seen as little more than a crime.
Yet within China, pirated goods are just another product at another price,
a form of market-imposed versioning. The decision whether to buy a
pirated Louis Vuitton bag is not a moral one, but one about quality, social
status, and risk reduction. If people have the money, they’d still rather
buy the real thing, because it’s usually better. But most people can only
afford the pirated versions.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

166

13:48

l

Page 166

CHRIS ANDERSON

Just as the Cantopop download sites create celebrity while they displace
sales, the pirates aren’t just making money on somebody else’s designs;
they’re also serving as a form of zero-cost brand distribution for those
designs. A fake Gucci bag still says Gucci, and it’s everywhere. This has
mixed consequences: a combination of the negative “replacement effect”
(the pirated versions take demand that the authentic versions might have
tapped) and a positive “stimulus effect” (the pirated versions create brand
awareness that can be tapped elsewhere).
In 2007, the China Market Research Group surveyed consumers,
mostly young women, in big Chinese cities and found an essentially
pragmatic approach to piracy. These consumers understood the difference between the original and pirated products, and preferred the originals
if they could afford them. Sometimes they would buy one original and
then complete their outfit with fakes.
One of the researchers, Shaun Rein, reported that some young women
making $400 a month said that they were willing to save three months
of salary to buy a thousand-dollar Gucci handbag or shoes from Bally.
One twenty-three-year-old female respondent said, “Right now I can’t
afford to buy a lot of real Prada or Coach, so I buy the fake items. I hope
that in the future I will be able to afford the real thing, but right now I
want to look the part.”
Looking the part doesn’t always mean just buying convincing fakes. It
has also created a market for fake evidence that the product isn’t fake.
(There’s innovation for you.) You can buy large-sum price tags to attach
to your low-sum clothes (it’s not uncommon to see people wearing
sunglasses with the price tag still attached), and there is even a secondary
market in fake receipts. The products are one thing, but the status that
goes along with them is much more important.
A twenty-seven-year-old woman working at a multinational admitted
that she did buy fakes but said, “If you wear a lot of fake clothing or have
a lot of counterfeit bags, your friends will know, so you are not fooling
anybody. It is better to have the real thing.”
This highlights the difference between digital and physical things.
Pirated digital products are as good as the originals. But pirated physical
products usually aren’t. After years of scandals involving knockoff Chinese
baby and pet food with inferior and sometimes poisonous ingredients,

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 167

l

167

Chinese consumers are hyperaware of the risks associated with buying in
the gray economy.
The throngs of Chinese consumers traveling to Hong Kong to buy
certified luxury goods is testament to the effect of the ubiquitous pirating
of designer products on the mainland: Consumers are very aware of
Western luxury brands, they associate them with style and quality, and
they’re keen to buy the real thing when they can. And increasingly, they can.
Piracy didn’t destroy the market—it primed the market for an emerging
tide of middle-class consumers. Per capita income has more than doubled
in China in the last decade, from $633 in 1996 to $1,537 in 2007, and
shows few signs of slowing. There are now around 250,000 millionaires
in China, and the number is growing every day. Today, China (including
Hong Kong) is the third-largest market for legitimate luxury goods in
the world. In economic terms, piracy stimulated more demand than it
satisfied.
The idea that knockoffs can actually help the originals, especially in
the fashion business, isn’t new. In economics, it’s called the “piracy
paradox,” a term coined by law professors Kal Raustiala and Christopher
Sprigman.
The paradox stems from the basic dilemma that underpins the
economics of fashion: Consumers have to like this year’s designs, but also
quickly become dissatisfied with them so they’ll buy next year’s design.
Unlike technology, say, apparel companies can’t argue that next year’s
models are functionally better—they just look different. So they need
some other reason to get consumers to lose their infatuation with this
year’s model. The solution: widespread copying that turns an exclusive
design into a mass-market commodity. The designer mystique is destroyed
by cheap ubiquity, and discriminating consumers have to go in search of
something exclusive and new.
This is what Raustiala and Sprigman call “induced obsolescence.”
Copying allows fashion to move quickly from early adopters to the masses,
forcing the early adopters to adopt something new. In China the early
adopters are the emerging rich and middle class, while the masses are
a billion people who can still dip their toe in the luxury market with a
clever fake. The two products—real and knockoff—are simply targeted at
different market segments. Each feeds the other. And it’s not just in China.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

168

13:48

l

Page 168

CHRIS ANDERSON

THE POWER OF BRAZILIAN
STREET VENDORS
On a busy corner in São Paulo, Brazil, street vendors pitch the latest
“tecnobrega” CDs, including one by a hot band called Banda Calypso.
Brega doesn’t have a direct translation, but it roughly means “cheesy” or
“tacky,” and the music, which comes from the poorer northern state of
Pará, has an unruly party sound, traditional Brazilian music driven by a
techno beat. Like CDs from most street vendors, these are not the official
offerings from a big label. But neither are they illicit.
The CDs are created by local recording studios, which tend to be run
by local DJs. They, in turn, get the masters from the band itself, along
with CD liner art. The local DJs work with local party planners, street
vendors, and radio stations to promote the upcoming show. Sometimes
the local DJs are actually all of these combined, producing, selling, and
promoting the CDs for the show that they themselves are organizing.
Banda Calypso doesn’t mind that it doesn’t get any money from this,
because selling disks isn’t Calypso’s main source of income. The band is
really in the performance business—and business is good. Moving from
town to town this way, preceded by a wave of supercheap CDs, Calypso
can fill hundreds of shows a year. The band usually plays two or three
shows a weekend, traveling around the country by microbus or boat.
But it’s not all road and river trips. Hermano Vianna, an anthropologist
and scholar of Brazilian music, tells a story about Calypso to illustrate
their success. While planning a feature on the band for his Globo TV
music show, Vianna offered a Globo-owned airplane to get the band to
and from a show in a remote area of the country. Calypso’s reply? No
need, we have our own plane.
In a sense, the street vendors have become the advance team in each
town Calypso visits. They get to make money from the music CDs, which
they sell for as little as $0.75, and in turn they display the CDs prominently.
Nobody thinks of the vendors’ cheap CDs as piracy. It’s just marketing,
using the street economy to generate literal street cred. As a result, by the
time Calypso comes to town, everyone knows about it. The band gets
huge crowds to its “soundsystem” events, where it not only charges for

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 169

l

169

admission, but also food and drinks. The band’s crew also records the
show and burns CDs and DVDs on the spot, selling them for around
$2 so concertgoers can replay the show they just saw.
More than 10 million of Calypso’s CDs have been sold, mostly not by
the band itself. And they’re not alone. The tecnobrega industry now
includes hundreds of bands and thousands of shows each year. A study
by Ronaldo Lemos and his colleagues at the Center for Technology and
Society at Rio de Janeiro’s Getulio Vargas Foundation found that between
the shows and the music, this industry generates around $20 million in
revenue a year.
Ninety percent of the bands have no record contract and no label.
They don’t need one. Letting others get their music for free creates a
bigger industry than charging ever could. This is something that Brazil
understands better than most: Its culture minister until 2008, the pop star
Gilberto Gil, has released his music under a free Creative Commons
license (including in a CD we distributed for free with Wired).
As in China, the drive toward Free in Brazil goes far beyond music.
In 1996, in response to Brazil’s alarming rate of AIDS infection, the
government of then-president Fernando Henrique Cardoso guaranteed
distribution of the new retroviral drug cocktails to all HIV carriers in the
country. Five years later, with the AIDS rate dropping, it was clear that
the plan was wise but—at the prices being charged for the patented drugs
in the cocktail—utterly unsustainable.
So Brazil’s health minister went to the key patent holders, the U.S.
pharmaceutical giant Merck and the Swiss firm Roche, and asked for a
volume discount. When the companies said no, the minister raised the
stakes. Under Brazilian law, he informed them, he had the power in cases
of national emergency to license local labs to produce patented drugs,
royalty-free, and he would use it if necessary. The companies caved,
and prices fell by more than 50 percent. Today, Brazil has one of the
largest generic drug industries in the world. Not free, but royalty-free, an
approach to intellectual property rights that the industry shares with the
tecnobrega DJs.
Then there’s open source, in which Brazil is a global leader. It built
the world’s first ATM network based on Linux. The prime directive of the
federal Institute for Information Technology is to promote the adoption

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

170

13:48

l

Page 170

CHRIS ANDERSON

of free software throughout the government and ultimately the nation.
Ministries and schools are migrating their offices to open source systems.
And within the government’s “digital inclusion” programs—aimed at
bringing computer access to the 80 percent of Brazilians who have
none—Linux is the rule.
“Every license for Office plus Windows in Brazil—a country in which
22 million people are starving—means we have to export sixty sacks
of soybeans,” Marcelo D’Elia Branco, coordinator of the country’s Free
Software Project, told writer Julian Dibbell. From his perspective, free
software isn’t just good for consumers, it’s good for the nation.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 171

15
IMAGINING ABUNDANCE
THOUGHT EXPERIMENTS IN “POST-SCARCITY”
SOCIETIES, FROM SCIENCE FICTION TO RELIGION

All sci-fi authors know the unwritten rule: You can only break the laws
of physics once or twice per story. After that, the rules of the regular world
hold. So you can have time travel, invent the Matrix, or put us on Mars.
But aside from that, we’re just everyday folk. The fun in the stories comes
from seeing how humanity responds to this one big dislocation.
Science fiction is what writer Clive Thompson calls “the last bastion
of philosophical writing.” It’s a sort of simulation, Thompson says, where
we change some of the basic rules and then learn more about ourselves.
“How would love change if we lived to be five hundred? If you could
travel back in time to reverse decisions, would you? What if you
could confront, talk to, or kill God?”
One device authors come back to time and time again is the invention of some machine that makes scarce things abundant. It’s the matter
replicators in Star Trek (any material good you want is a button-push away)
and the robot-run offworld of WALL-E (where people become corpulent
blobs as they pass their days reclining in levitating pool loungers, drinks
always at hand).
In sci-fi circles (and for the more fringy techno-utopians) this is called
“post-scarcity economics.” In that context, many of these novels are not

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

172

13:48

l

Page 172

CHRIS ANDERSON

just stories, they’re also book-length thought experiments about the
consequences of expensive things becoming close to free.
Take E. M. Forster’s 1909 short story “The Machine Stops.” One of
the earliest examples of the post-scarcity form presents a world where
humanity has retreated underground, living in individual cells, separate
from all physical interaction. A colossal Machine provides for all life,
ensuring food, entertainment, and protection from the toxic surface world,
like some vast mechanical god. Indeed, the people in the story eventually
grow to worship the Machine. And why not? Within the rooms, all human
needs are taken care of:
There were buttons and switches everywhere—buttons to call for food, for
music, for clothing. There was the hot-bath button, by pressure of which
a basin of (imitation) marble rose out of the floor, filled to the brim with
a warm deodorized liquid. There was the cold-bath button. There was the
button that produced literature. And there were of course the buttons by
which [Vashti, the main character] communicated with her friends.

Vashti has no occupation or purpose other than to give lectures to her
friends via their instantaneous videocommunications devices. (For the
parents of today’s tweens and teens, I’m sure this sounds familiar.)
There you have it: a picture of abundance. And how does it work out?
Not so well. Because the Machine intermediates all personal interactions,
people lose their face-to-face communication skills and become terrified
of actually meeting one another. The inhabitants of the Machine decide
that all information should be gathered, third-, fourth-, even tenth-hand
to avoid direct experience. Unfortunately, this avoidance of interaction
means an end to all collaborative creativity, and progress stops. Humanity
loses its sense of purpose, giving up even the creation of art and writing
to the Machine.
When the Machine eventually begins to break down, no one knows
how to fix it. So as the Machine crumbles, the people of the Earth die
en masse, crushed alive in the underground hives. In the end, though,
one character reveals with his dying breaths that he has discovered a
society of exiles still living on the surface of the Earth, free from the prison
of abundance. Whew!

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 173

l

173

Other science fiction from the early twentieth century took a similarly
bleak tone. The dislocations of the Industrial Revolution were still under
way, and the wrenching social change brought about by mechanization,
urbanization, and globalization was unsettling. Machine-created abundance was seen as available only to the privileged few—the industrialist
beneficiaries of the factories in which others labored.
In Fritz Lang’s Metropolis, society is divided into two groups: one of
planners and thinkers living in luxury high above the Earth, and another
of workers, dwelling and toiling underground to run the machine that
sustains the wealthy. The film is about the workers’ revolt, but the broader
point is clear. Abundance comes at a cost: scarcity elsewhere.
The world wars put a damper on most sci-fi utopianism, but the dawn
of the Space Age brought it back, and this time without as much of a
dark edge. As with the stories above, Arthur C. Clarke’s 1956 The City
and the Stars starts with a hermetically sealed techno-city, where machines
supply everything that’s needed and nobody ever really dies. The citizens
fill their days with philosophical discussions, making art and taking part
in virtual reality adventures. After a few thousand years, they return to the
Hall of Creation to have their consciousness digitized again. Clarke portrays
this as idyllic but a bit short of meaning; his central character decides
to venture out into the surrounding desert to see if there is more and
eventually finds a world much like our own, where the normal cycle of
birth and death provide purpose.
The arrival of the digital age and the Internet gave science fiction a
more plausible source of abundance: computers. Jack yourself into the
Metaverse and you could be anyone you want; scarcity was simply a
construct of the virtual reality, and if you hacked it right you could have
anything. Contemporary writers took a more positive view of abundance
because they were already experiencing it—the Internet brought the end
of information scarcity.
Of course plot requires tension, so all is not well in these utopias of
abundance. In Cory Doctorow’s Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom,
some undescribed technology controlled by the Bitchun Society had “all
but obsoleted the medical profession: why bother with surgery when you
can grow a clone, take a backup, and refresh the new body? Some people
swapped corpuses just to get rid of a cold.” The result, however, is that

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

174

13:48

l

Page 174

CHRIS ANDERSON

people become bored and apathetic. One character explains: “Junkies
don’t miss sobriety, because they don’t remember how sharp everything
was, how the pain made the joy sweeter. We can’t remember what it was
like to work to earn our keep; to worry that there might not be enough,
that we might get sick or get hit by a bus.”
What becomes scarce in Doctorow’s world is reputation, or “whuffie.”
It serves as a digital currency, something that can be given to people in
exchange for good deeds, and diminished by bad behavior. Head-up
displays reveal everyone’s whuffie, which serves as a measure of status.
When all physical needs are met, the most important commodity becomes
social capital.
In Neal Stephenson’s The Diamond Age or, A Young Lady’s Illustrated
Primer, the abundance comes from nanotech-driven “matter compliers,”
which can make anything from a mattress to food. What work remains is
in designing new things for the compliers to make, and it doesn’t take
many people to do that. Two billion workers are idle. The book follows
the efforts of one man to invent a way to educate them (thus the primer).
This echoes a similar theme from writers at the time of the first Industrial
Revolution: When the machines do all the work, what motivates us?
In some of these books, the end of labor scarcity liberates the mind, ends
wars over resources, and creates a civilization of spiritual, philosophical
beings. In others, the end of scarcity makes us lazy, decadent, stupid, and
mean. You don’t have to spend much time online to find examples of
both.

AFTERLIFE
Perhaps no greater example of abundance/scarcity-driven extremes exists
than in religion.
Heaven is the ultimate imagining of abundance: Angels drift in fluffy
clouds, playing harps and transcending physical needs. Those who die
holy become incorruptible, glorious, and perfect. Any physical defects the
body may have labored under are erased. Islamic texts are more explicit
about the specifics: Inhabitants will be of the same age (thirty-two years
for men) and of the same stature. They will wear costly robes, bracelets,

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 175

l

175

and perfumes and, reclining on couches inlaid with gold or precious stones,
partake in exquisite banquets, served in priceless vessels by immortal youths.
Foods mentioned include clear drinks neither bringing drunkenness nor
rousing quarreling.
George Orwell satirized this vision of abundant paradise. In Animal
Farm, the livestock were told that after their miserable lives were over they
would go to a place where “it was Sunday seven days a week, clover was
in season all the year round, and lump sugar and linseed cake grew on
the hedges.”
But it doesn’t take many New Yorker cartoons to reveal that if we take
the abundance myth of heaven too seriously, we quickly imagine how
bored we’d be there. Robes, harps, every day like the last—blah. No
wonder abundance in fiction quickly leads to total loss of purpose and
the bloated sloth of WALL-E. Is it inevitable that the end of scarcity also
means the end of discipline and drive?
It’s worth looking at a historical analogy, the civilizations of Athens
and Sparta, for an answer. Supported by massive populations of slaves,
both of these two classical cities lived in functionally abundant worlds.
The slaves provided for all the corporeal needs, much like the Machine
or the Bitchun Society. If you were lucky enough to be born into the
right class, you didn’t have to work to live.
Neither society found itself floundering or stagnating for lack of
purpose. The Athenians became artists and philosophers, trying to seek
purpose in the abstract, while the Spartans focused their lives on military
strength and might. Rather than depriving life of purpose, material
abundance created a scarcity of meaning. Athenians moved further up
Maslow’s pyramid, exploring science and creativity. And the Spartans’ lust
for battle? I suppose Maslow would call that a form of self-actualization,
too.
The lesson from fiction is that we can’t really imagine plenty properly.
Our brains are wired for scarcity; we are focused on the things we don’t
have enough of, from time to money. That’s what gives us our drive. If
we get what we’re seeking, we tend to quickly discount it and find a new
scarcity to pursue. We are motivated by what we don’t have, not what we
do have.
This is why readers under thirty, when told of the Internet’s economic

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

176

13:48

l

Page 176

CHRIS ANDERSON

bounty of near-zero marginal costs, so often think “Duh.” In the old paradigm, digital goods too cheap to meter counted as an almost unimaginable
cornucopia. But in the new paradigm, it’s hardly worth counting at all.
Abundance is always the light on the next peak, never the one we’re on.
Economically, abundance is the driver of innovation and growth. But
psychologically, scarcity is all that we really understand.
I’ll end with an example from the dawn of the Industrial Age in
Shropshire, England. In 1770, the local ironmaking factories had developed
the ability to cast large sections of iron. To demonstrate the advantages
of this durable new building material, the factory owners commissioned
engineers to build a bridge entirely out of iron. The Iron Bridge, which
spans the river Severn, remains a tourist attraction today, and it is notable
not just for the ambitions of its builders and the marvel it inspired, but
also because it was built entirely on timber principles.
Each element of the frame was cast separately, and fastenings followed
those used in woodworking, such as the mortise and blind dovetail joints.
Bolts were used to fasten the half ribs together at the crown of the arch.
Thousands of these metal planks were fixed together, just as if they had
been milled from a metal forest. As a result, the bridge was wildly overdesigned, and within a few years its masonry started to crack under the
pressure of 380 tons of iron.
It took several decades before people realized that iron could be made
to work differently. Wood’s constraints of length and radial weakness were
not iron’s constraints. Metal bridges could have much longer arches and
could be welded. Subsequent bridges the size of the Iron Bridge weighed
less than half as much. People don’t always recognize abundance when
they first see it.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 177

16
“YOU GET WHAT YOU PAY FOR”
AND OTHER DOUBTS ABOUT FREE

Late in 2007, Andrew Rosenthal, the editorial page editor of the New

York Times, was interviewed by Radar magazine about, among other things,
the Times’s decision to open up all its content for free online by eliminating
the Times Select paywall previously maintained for its columnists.
He said the following:
I think that the newspaper industry joined hands and took a collective leap
off a cliff for no discernible reason when we decided to announce to the
world that what we do has no value at all. And we should have been
charging for our websites from day one. Subscriptions have been part of
this forever.
You have to pay for paper. You have to pay for pixels. It costs money.
And I think it was a huge mistake. I can’t put that back in the tube now.
But if you look at the Internet, the only thing that’s free is what we do:
information. Everything else costs money. Ring tones cost a dollar. You pay
for your access to the Internet. You pay for your e mail. Everybody says
e mail is free. It’s not free. First of all, you’re paying your ISP for it. And
if you’re using something like Google mail, you’re turning yourself into an
advertising conduit for a giant corporation. There’s nothing free about the
Internet. It’s just baloney.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

178

13:48

l

Page 178

CHRIS ANDERSON

Putting aside some of the more obvious problems with Rosenthal’s
logic (if he’s a got a problem with being an advertising conduit for giant
corporations, he’s working for the wrong company), he does touch on some
important themes. I quote him in entirety first because I imagine a lot of
heads nodded in agreement when they originally read it (and may have
nodded again just reading it here). He’s also making some assumptions I
hear every day: “no price means no value,” “you have to pay for pixels,”
there’s nothing free about the Internet because “you’re paying your ISP for
it,” the only thing free on the Internet is “information,” and so on.
There is a grain of truth to each of these, but this thinking is also just
wrong—deeply, almost head-scratchingly wrong. And yet not a day goes
by when I don’t hear these and other doubts about Free that are just as
ill-conceived (aside from the usual “freetard” label, which I continue to
find funny even though I know I shouldn’t). So here are the fourteen
most frequently heard objections to the notion of an economy based on
Free, with an example of each, and my response:
1. There ain’t no such thing as a free lunch.
People with a sound education in economics know that nothing is really
“free”: you’re going to pay one way or another for whatever you get.
—Terry Hancock, writing in to complain to
the Free Software Magazine

This chestnut is known as TANSTAFL in the economics world and was
a favorite rejoinder of Milton Friedman, the Nobel Prize–winning former
University of Chicago economics professor. It simply states that a person
or a society cannot get something for nothing. Even if something appears
to be free, there is always a cost to the person or to society as a whole,
even though that cost may be hidden or distributed.
Is this always true? That’s really two questions, an economic one and
a practical one: Intellectually, we think that someone has to be paying
somewhere, right? And it’s going to ultimately be me, isn’t it?
The short answer to the first question is yes. Eventually all costs must be
paid. What’s changing, however, is that those costs are moving from the
mostly “hidden” (the small matter of the beer you must buy for that lunch)

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 179

l

179

to the “distributed” (somebody’s paying, but it’s probably not you; indeed,
the costs may be so distributed that we individually don’t feel them at all).
Economists usually consider this rule in the context of “closed markets,”
such as the balance sheet of the restaurant serving that lunch. If you aren’t
paying for the lunch, your lunch partner is. And if she’s not paying, then
the restaurant owner is paying. Or if the restaurant owner isn’t paying,
the food supplier is. And so on. One way or another, the books must
balance.
But the world is full of markets that are not closed and tend to leak
into the other markets around them, which we may or may not be measuring. We’ve already looked at the interaction between the monetary and
the nonmonetary markets. Lunch may have been free to you in the monetary market, but you paid with your time and presence in the attention
and reputation markets. These are “other costs,” and are the way economists deal with things that don’t fit the basic models. One of those is
“opportunity costs”—the value of something else you might have done
with the time you were at lunch.
If we could possibly do the accounting over all markets, monetary and
nonmonetary, and work out the proper conversion ratios, it would no
doubt be true that Friedman was right. But we can’t. And even if we
could calculate the distributed ecological cost of that breath you just took,
for example, it wouldn’t take away from the practical reality that it’s free
to you in every way you care about.
Economics, at least in its idealized form, obeys conservation laws: What
goes in must come out. If you print more money, for instance, standard
monetary theory says you devalue the existing supply of money by an
equivalent amount.
In reality, however, economics is called a “dismal science” for good
reason—like other studies of human behavior, it is more than a little
fuzzy. What cannot be directly measured in economic systems is handwaved away into a category called “externalities” (for example, when you
buy a pair of shoes you are not charged for the environmental impact of
the carbon released in their manufacture—that’s called a “negative externality,” which we’ll discuss at length below). A lot of the costs in that free
lunch fall under the category of externalities—technically there, but
immaterial to you.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

180

13:48

l

Page 180

CHRIS ANDERSON

To demonstrate, let’s try to follow the money as you pay for reading
a Wikipedia entry. The Wikipedia Foundation, which pays for the servers
and bandwidth that Wikipedia runs on, is a nonprofit supported by
donors, both corporate and individual. Assuming you are not one of
those individual donors (and only a minute fraction of Wikipedia’s
users are), perhaps you are a customer of one of Wikipedia’s corporate
donors, such as Sun Microsystems. In that case, you may be paying a
tiny fraction of a cent more for Sun servers than you would otherwise,
to pad Sun’s profit margin enough that it can make a charitable donation. Not a Sun customer? Well, Google is a Wikipedia donor, too.
Perhaps you once paid for a Google ad that was a zillionth of a cent
more expensive than it otherwise would have been had Google not
made the donation. Not an advertiser? Well, then maybe you bought
a product from one of Google’s advertisers, and that product was a
gazillionth of a cent more expensive because of this chain of events.
At this point we’re talking about fractions of a cent that are like an
atom in that penny. In other words, although you can probably argue that
you are ultimately paying for that Wikipedia entry, it is only true in the
sense that the flutter of a butterfly wing in China could determine your
weather tomorrow. Technically, there may be a connection, but it is too
small to measure, and so we don’t bother.
Let’s now revisit Rosenthal’s comment that, like paper, “you have to pay
for pixels.” Well, technically that’s true, but as the editor of an operation
that both prints paper and pushes pixels, I know the differences are far
greater than the similarities. We pay dollars to print, bind, and mail a
magazine to you (that’s not including any of the cost to produce the
content inside), but just microcents to show it to you on our Web site.
That’s why we can treat it as free, because on a user-by-user basis it is, in
fact, too cheap to meter.
Overall, our server and bandwidth bill amounts to several thousand
dollars a month. But that’s to reach tens of millions of readers. Compared
to the value of those readers, we’re more than happy to treat pixels as
free. Sure, let’s grant the naysayers the semantic point: Free isn’t really
free. But in many cases, it might as well be. That’s what matters most in
determining how we run our lives and our businesses.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 181

l

181

2. Free always has hidden costs/Free is a trick.
Free isn’t what it used to be, especially on the Internet, whose very history
and technology are based on the notion that information and pretty much
everything else online want to be free. Web giveaways increasingly come at
a steep price, in the form of computer glitches, frustration and loss of privacy
and security—not to mention the threat of expensive lawsuits for large-scale
music downloaders.
—John Schwartz, New York Times

This is not so much a fallacy as a stereotype. Yes, it’s true that Free sometimes comes with strings attached. Advertising clutters your page. Limits
are imposed. You’re upsold to different products or locked into something
very much not free. We are baited, then switched.
But that describes twentieth-century Free a lot better than twenty-firstcentury Free. Generally, common sense is a good guide: If something seems
too good to be true, it probably is, especially in the world of atoms. The
marginal costs of a free spritz of perfume in a department store are low
enough to believe that it’s really free. In contrast, you’re right to assume
you’re going to end up paying for a free vacation, one way or another.
However, in twenty-first-century Free, which is based on the economics
of digital bits, there is no need for hidden costs. They might still be there,
as Schwartz likes to remind us, but that speaks more to the fact that
free products come without warranties, which is the cost of having no
guaranteed fix when things go wrong (call that caveat non-emptor). They
are not required by the model. Free can be as good as Paid, or better: no
tricks, catches, or strings required (think open source software).
It’s time to stop treating bits like atoms and assuming that the same
limitations still hold. Trickery is no longer an essential part of the model.
3. The Internet isn’t really free because you’re paying for access.
Excuse me but when has the internet been free? Free as in speech yes but
not free as in beer. We all have to pay an ISP to access the net so we are
paying already for what’s on it.
—comment on a post by Laurie Langham

This is a common confusion, that somehow the $30 or $40 we spend each
month on our Internet access subsidizes the entire Internet. It actually

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

182

13:48

l

Page 182

CHRIS ANDERSON

does help pay for the transmission infrastructure, but it has nothing to do
with what travels over it. In the same way that minutes of cell phone use say
nothing about the value of what’s said in those minutes, you’re paying for the
bits to be delivered to you but not for the value that’s in the bits themselves.
This is the difference between “content” and “carriage,” which are separate
markets. Carriage is not free, but content often is. Your monthly ISP (Internet
service provider) charge covers the delivery of that content, but the creation
of the content is controlled by an entirely different economic model.
It’s easy to see why people are confused by this, because there are a few
markets where carriage subsidizes content, too. In cable TV, for instance,
the local cable company pays a license fee for much of the video it sends
downs its lines, and that fee comes out of your monthly bill. But the Internet
doesn’t work that way: Your ISP doesn’t control or pay for the bits it transmits. (In legal terms, it’s a “common carrier,” like a phone company.)
In commonsense terms, this error also comes from measuring the
value of a thing using the wrong units. In terms of his mineral content,
my youngest son is worth around $5 at current spot market prices, but I
won’t sell him to you for that. He’s worth more to me because of the way
those minerals are put together, and all the other atoms, quantum states,
and puppy dog tails that combine to make him a person. Confusing the
cost of transmitting the megabits with the cost of making them and what
they’re worth to the receiver is a similar mistake of misunderstanding where
the value actually resides. It’s not in the network. It’s in the production
and consumption at the edges, where we turn bits into meaning.
4. Free is just about advertising (and there’s a limit to that).
In today’s “free” world, in most online business categories, it is inherently impossible to start a small self-sustaining business and to grow it. This is because in
the digital world, advertising, the only real revenue stream, cannot support a small
digital business. If businesses were based on the idea that people paid for services
then small companies could succeed at a small scale and grow. But it is very hard
to charge when your competition is free.
—Hank Williams, writing in Silicon Alley Observer

One of the biggest fallacies of Free on the Web is that it’s only about
advertising. Although it’s true that advertising-based models dominated

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 183

l

183

the first era of the Web, today freemium—the model where some people
pay directly, and support many others who pay nothing at all—is growing
fast to rival it (as we saw in Chapter 1). Online video games, for example,
are primarily choosing the freemium strategy, as is the fast-growing
category of Web-based software (known as “software as a service”). Williams
is right that most Web businesses are small ones and it’s hard to support
a small business on advertising. But he’s wrong that this is the only
business model available to companies online. More and more companies
are like Chicago’s 37signals, which uses free samples and trials to market
software that is paid for the old-fashioned way: direct payment by customers.
Sound very old-economy? Perhaps, but with the right market it can
work. David Heinemeier Hansson, one of 37signals’ founders, says the
company’s secret is not to target individual consumers (it’s hard to get
them to open their wallets) or big companies (that’s a crowded space and
a slow purchasing process). Instead, the company focuses on the “Fortune
5 Million”—small companies with specific needs that are underserved.
Project management software for twelve-person teams is the kind of
product 37signals sells, and the companies who are frustrated by overbuilt one-size-fits-all software from big companies and hard-to-use open
source alternatives are happy to pay a few hundred dollars a year for the
37signals version.
You only have to look to the iPhone’s “app market” (all the programs
you can download from iTunes for your phone) to see hundreds of other
small businesses (many of them single programmers) making a tidy income
by selling software in a market where others give the software away. No
advertising required—it’s a straight sale, either up front or for the advanced
version of a free basic form. The same is true for thousands of companies
that distribute narrowly targeted utility programs online, which tend to
be free to try. Nothing new about this—the shareware market has been
around for decades—but as this software becomes Web-based it gets easier
and easier to do.
The second objection to the assertion that Free online is all about
advertising is that this implies Free must be limited: Surely the advertising pie can only be so big. Although that may be true, it’s not at all
clear where the limits lie and how much bigger the advertising market
can get online. Google has shown that online ads can be different enough—

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

184

13:48

l

Page 184

CHRIS ANDERSON

measurable, targeted, paid only for performance—to attract an entirely
new class of advertiser: small and medium-sized businesses buying
keywords for pennies per click. Google isn’t just taking more of the
advertising pie—it’s also making a bigger pie.
5. Free means more ads, and that means less privacy.
I have asked many people I know who live and die by Facebook how much
they would pay for it, and they all said zero. So Facebook becomes a slave
to advertising and pimping out their users’ information for every cent they
can get. It isn’t unrealistic to think that if people paid for more services that
their personal information wouldn’t be shared quite so freely.
—Paul Ellis, pseudosavant.com

This is a commonly heard concern about advertising in general. People
often assume that any site with advertising must be tracking user behavior
and selling that information to the advertisers. This argument fuels the
assumption that because so much Free is ad-supported, Free is a corrosive
force, spreading marketing sneakiness everywhere it goes.
In truth, the hypothetical Facebook example is still more the exception than the rule. Most ad-driven sites have privacy policies that forbid
passing user information to advertisers (and most advertisers wouldn’t know
what to do with that information even if they got it).
Ellis argues that paying for services directly, rather than having advertisers pay for you, means that the sites will be more inclined to protect
your privacy—i.e., they work for you, not the advertisers. While that may
be true, it’s not necessary.
The media world has been figuring out how to balance consumer and
advertiser interests for decades, ranging from industry guidelines to the
“Chinese walls” of media that separate editorial and business functions. It
is not a new problem, and we’ve seen that it’s possible to have editorial
independence even when the advertisers are picking up the freight.
It’s worth noting, however, that privacy is a moving target. In Europe,
a vast system of laws protects personal information, but in the United
States it’s more a matter of individual company codes of conduct and
consumer pressure. But the expectations of privacy that we had twenty
years ago are not mirrored by the generation growing up online today.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 185

l

185

After you’ve “overshared” pictures of the drunken scene at your last frat
party and described the ups and downs of your latest love affair, how
much worse is it if a marketer sends you a discount on a clothing line
based on your listed preferences?
6. No cost = no value.
I’m sad that people feel like music should be free, that the work that we do
is not valued. When music comes free by way of friends burning CDs, there’s
not that understanding of the work that goes into the making of an album.
—Sheryl Crow, interviewed in the New York Times Magazine

Spot the fallacy? It’s that the only way to measure value is with money.
The Web is built mostly on two nonmonetary units—attention (traffic)
and reputation (links)—both of which benefit hugely from free content
and services. And it’s a pretty simple matter to convert either of those two
currencies into cash, as a glance at Google’s balance sheet makes clear.
Or take the TED conference, which charges thousands of dollars per
ticket while simultaneously broadcasting all of its talks online. Crow, of
course, benefits in reputation from her fans ripping her albums and
burning them for more friends. The gift of a CD is a recommendation
from a trusted party. There are marketers who would kill to facilitate such
authentic and rapid word of mouth.
When people rip and burn CDs (or, more probably these days, share
music electronically via iTunes or file trading), they’re not saying that
Crow didn’t put any work into the album. They’re essentially saying she
didn’t put any work into that particular act of distribution—the creation
of a digital copy. And, indeed, she didn’t. The marginal cost to her of
that transfer is zero, and the file-trading generation’s innate understanding
of digital economics helps usher in the conclusion that her payment for
that transfer should also be zero.
Crow will make her money in the end, through her concerts, her
merchandise, licensing for commercials or soundtracks, and yes, the
sale of some of her music to people who still want CDs or prefer to buy
their music online. But the celebrity and credibility that she gets from
the file traders who choose to download her music or the CD swappers
who opt to rip and burn will help—at the very least, file sharing wins her

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

186

13:48

l

Page 186

CHRIS ANDERSON

reputational currency. It’s impossible to quantify how much of that
will translate to cash through these other means, but it’s not zero. Is it
more than the amount of direct revenues she might get if these people
paid for the music? We’ll never know.
At the end of the book, I list fifty business models built on Free, and
there are hundreds more. All of them are based on the notion that free stuff
does have value and the way we measure that is through people’s actions.
There is no greater test of what people value than what they choose to spend
their time on—although we are getting more affluent, we’re not getting any
more hours in the day. Crow is being listened to by the most distracted
generation in history, with the most choice and the most competition for
their time. There are worse problems than getting attention.
7. Free undermines innovation.
Of the world’s economies, there’s more that believe in intellectual property
today than ever. There are fewer communists in the world today than there
were. But there are some new modern-day sort of communists who want to
get rid of the incentive for musicians and moviemakers and software makers
under various guises.
—Bill Gates, interviewed in 2005

The argument that Free attacks intellectual property rights such as patents
and copyright straddles the line between libre and gratis. The thinking
goes like this: People aren’t going to invent things if they can’t be rewarded
for it. Patents and copyright are our way of ensuring that creators get paid.
So what’s the point of patents and copyright if the marketplace expects
the price to be zero?
Actually, the history of intellectual property law fully recognizes the
power of Free. It’s based on the long traditions of the scientific world,
where researchers freely build on the published work of those who came
before. In the same vein, the creators of the patent system (led by Thomas
Jefferson) wanted to encourage sharing of information, but they realized
that the only way people thought they could get paid for their inventions
was to hold them secret. So the Founding Fathers found another way to
protect inventors—the seventeen-year patent period. In exchange for open
publication of an invention (libre), the inventor can charge a license fee

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 187

l

187

(not gratis) to anyone who uses it for the term of the patent. But after
that term expires, the intellectual property will be free (gratis).
So there’s already a place for Free in patents—it kicks in after seventeen
years. (Copyright was also meant to expire, but Congress keeps extending
it.) However, a growing community of creators doesn’t want to wait that
long. They’re choosing to reject these rights and release their ideas (whether
as words, pictures, music, or code) under licenses such as Creative Commons
or various open source software licenses. They believe that real Free—both
gratis and libre—encourages innovation by making it easier for other people
to remix, mash up, and otherwise build on the work of others.
As for making money, they do so indirectly, either in selling services
around the free goods (such as supporting Linux) or in just finding ways
to turn the reputational currency they’ve earned by having others build
on their work (with due credit) into cash through better jobs, paid gigs,
and the like.
8. Depleted oceans, filthy public toilets, and global warming are
the real cost of Free.
Free parking has contributed to auto dependence, rapid urban sprawl, extravagant energy use, and a host of other problems. Planners mandate free parking
to alleviate congestion, but end up distorting transportation choices, debasing
urban design, damaging the economy, and degrading the environment. Ubiquitous free parking helps explain why our cities sprawl on a scale fit more
for cars than for people, and why American motor vehicles now consume oneeighth of the world’s total oil production.
—Donald Shoup, The High Cost of Free Parking

No discussion of Free can avoid “The Tragedy of the Commons.” If we
don’t have to pay for things, we tend to consume them to excess. The
classic tragedy of the commons example (which biologist Garrett Hardin
used in a 1968 article) is sheep grazing on the commonly owned village
green. Since sheep owners don’t have to pay for the land, they are not
incentivized to preserve it. Indeed, it is even worse: Since they know that
others are similarly able to waste the resource, they may choose to gain
a bigger share of the benefit by wasting it faster, grazing more of their
sheep, more of the time, until quickly the green is brown.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

188

13:48

l

Page 188

CHRIS ANDERSON

This is the consequence of what economists call “uncompensated negative externalities.” When things are actually scarce (limited) but we price
them as if they were abundant (essentially unlimited), bad things can happen.
Take global warming. We now realize that the cost of putting tons of
carbon into the atmosphere is that global temperatures will rise and create
all sorts of dire consequences. But we had priced atmospheric carbon
release as if there were no consequences, which is to say we didn’t price
it at all. You were free to release as much carbon as you wanted into the
atmosphere, and as a result we released as much as we could. In other
words, the environmental cost of carbon was both “external” to our
economic system and, as it turned out, negative. Current efforts to impose
carbon taxes, caps, and other limits are attempts to compensate for those
costs by making them “internal” to our economic system.
You can see this problem all around you. We’ve overfished the oceans
because limits either don’t exist or are unenforced and fishermen treat fish
as “free.” On the personal level, if you walk into a disgusting public toilet,
you can probably smell uncompensated negative externalities. The toilet
is free to use and the cost of cleaning it up is borne by someone else, so
people tend not to treat it with the same care they would treat their own
toilets, where the costs are felt directly. And so on, from litter to deforestation. Free can lead to gorging, and thus ruin the party for everyone.
But note that the environmental costs of Free are mostly felt in the
world of atoms. As we’ve discussed, it’s hard to make atoms really free—the
reason that we don’t feel these environmental costs is simply that we haven’t
priced the market right. Those plastic bags are only free because we don’t
charge directly for the cleanup costs of taking them out of trees. But increasingly, we are starting to measure and account for the negative externalities
(making them negative internalities, since they’re now explicitly part of
a closed economic system). As such, you’re starting to see either supermarket discounts for using nondisposable bags (which is effectively the
same as a surcharge for plastic bags) or bans on plastic bags altogether.
In the world of bits, the environmental costs are far less of an issue.
Wasteful use of processing, storage, and bandwidth basically boils down
to electricity, and the market is getting increasingly good at pricing the
environmental costs of that. Carbon caps, regulation requiring renewable
energy sources, and local emission limits have pushed companies such

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 189

l

189

as Google, Microsoft, and Yahoo! to locate their data centers near
hydroelectric power sources, which are carbon-free. Eventually, they will
be located near solar-thermal, wind, and geothermal electricity sources,
too. Simple economics—regulation making carbon-generating electricity
more expensive than renewable electricity—will ensure that wasting bits
will not have the environmental consequences of wasting atoms.
But digital Free can have unaccounted costs, too. Consider flat-fee broadband access, where incremental use is free. (This is the standard plan for
your cable modem or DSL connection.) Some people change their behavior
with such free capacity and share huge files with peer-to-peer file-trading
software such as BitTorrent. This minority ends up using the majority of
the network capacity, and as a result all of our Internet access is slower.
That’s why Internet service providers such as your cable company cap
individual users who use too much capacity, or charge more for people
who want to transfer more data. It’s typically a pretty high cap that doesn’t
affect most of us, and the ISPs are careful to keep it that way. But given
that most of us have a choice of broadband providers, few ISPs want to
get a reputation as the “slow” one.
9. Free encourages piracy.
You’re a communist aren’t you Mike? I can tell you are sure not a capitalist.
Content creators should be paid for content they make. I will admit right
here and now I download content and I will continue to thieve content
anywhere I can get it. But I don’t try to rationalize my immorality with rhetoric about “economics when there’s a lack of scarcity.”
—“Xenohacker,” responding to Mike Masnick at Techdirt
[spelling vastly improved]

No, it’s just the opposite. Free doesn’t encourage piracy. Piracy encourages
Free. Piracy happens when the marketplace realizes that the marginal
cost of reproduction and distribution of a product is significantly lower
than the price asked. In other words, the only thing propping up the price
is the law protecting intellectual property. If you break the law, the price
can fall, sometimes all the way to zero. That’s true for everything from
fake Louis Vuitton luggage (where the price is low, but not zero) to MP3s
(which are traded without charge).

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

190

13:48

l

Page 190

CHRIS ANDERSON

So piracy is like the force of gravity. If you’re holding something off
the ground, sooner or later gravity is going to win and it will fall. For
digital products it’s the same thing—copyright protection schemes, coded
into either law or software, are simply holding up a price against the force
of gravity. Sooner or later, it will fall, either because the owner drops it
or because the pirates knock it to the ground.
This is not to condone or encourage piracy, only to say that it is more
like a natural force than a social behavior that can be trained or legislated away. The economic incentives to pirate digital goods—zero cost,
identical reward—are so great that it can be assumed that anything of
value in digital form will eventually be pirated and then freely distributed.
Sometimes that stays within a shadowy subculture (enterprise software
piracy), and sometimes it goes mainstream (music and movies). But it is
almost impossible to stop. Economics has little place for morality for the
same reason that evolution is unsentimental about extinction—it describes
what happens, not what should happen.
10. Free is breeding a generation that doesn’t value anything.
Just a few decades ago, people had low expectations and worked hard to make
a living. They did not know free and never expected it. Now, the opposite
trend is happening, with free becoming expected online. Will the new generation, the one that expects something for nothing, work as hard to maintain
the high standards of living that we created?
—Alex Iskold, ReadWriteWeb

This has been a worry since the Industrial Revolution—replace “free” with
“steam” and you can imagine the Victorian concern about flabby muscles
and minds. It is true that each generation takes for granted some things their
parents valued, but that doesn’t mean that generation values everything less.
Instead, they value different things. Somehow we managed to stop getting
up at dawn to milk the cows without losing our overall will to work.
It’s true that anyone growing up in a broadband household today will
likely assume that everything digital should be free (probably because
almost all of it is). Call them Generation Free.
This group—most people under the age of twenty in the developed
world—also expects information to be infinite and immediate. (They’re

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 191

l

191

otherwise known as the Google Generation.) They are increasingly
unwilling to pay for content and other entertainment, because they have
so many free alternatives. This is the generation that wouldn’t think of
shoplifting but doesn’t think twice about downloading music from filetrading sites. They intuitively understand the economics of atoms versus
bits, and realized that the first has real costs that must be paid, but the
second usually does not. From that perspective, shoplifting is theft but
file trading is a victimless crime.
They insist on Free not just in price but also in the absence of restrictions: They resist registration barriers, copyright control schemes, and
content that they can’t own. The question is not “What does it cost?” but
“Why should I pay?” This is not arrogance or entitlement—it is experience.
They have come of age in a world of Free.
When I explain the thesis of this book—that making money around
Free will be the future of business—the response from this generation is
usually “And?” It seems self-evident to them. This is the difference between
digital natives and the rest of us. They somehow understand near-zero
marginal costs from birth (although not perhaps in those words).
But Generation Free doesn’t assume that as go bits, so should go atoms.
They don’t expect to get their clothes or apartments for free; indeed
they’re paying more than ever for those. Give the kids credit: They can
differentiate between the physical and the virtual, and they tailor their
behavior differently in each domain. Free online is no more likely to lead
to an expectation of free offline than to lead to an expectation that people
should look like their World of Warcraft characters.
11. You can’t compete with free.
There is no business model ever struck off by the hand and grain of man that
can compete with free. It can’t be done. If I have a Pizza Hut and I’m selling
pizzas at $1.50, somebody puts up a Pizza Hut next to me and gives them
away, who do you think is going to get the business?
—Jack Valenti, Motion Picture Association of America

Chapter 14 is all about this, looking particularly at how Microsoft learned
to compete with open source software. But the short form is that it’s easy
to compete with Free: simply offer something better or at least different

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

192

13:48

l

Page 192

CHRIS ANDERSON

from the free version. There is a reason why office workers walk past the
free coffee in the kitchen to go out and spend $4 for a venti latte at
Starbucks—the Starbucks coffee tastes better. There’s also a bit of
consumer psychology going on—the small treat, the ritual of pampering
ourselves with something a little luxurious. It’s easy to find free coffee,
but what Starbucks offers is something more.
The situation is rarely the one Valenti postulates: a free Pizza Hut
opening next to a regular one. Instead, it’s far more likely to be something like a Domino’s, which offers free pizza if the delivery takes longer
than thirty minutes, opening up next to a Pizza Hut. These are different
services, and Free is just one of many factors in deciding between them.
The way to compete with Free is to move past the abundance to find
the adjacent scarcity. If software is free, sell support. If phone calls are
free, sell distant labor and talent that can be reached by those free calls
(the Indian outsourcing model in a nutshell). If your skills are being turned
into a commodity that can be done by software (hello, travel agents, stockbrokers, and realtors), then move upstream to more complicated problems
that still require the human touch. Not only can you compete with Free
in that instance, but the people who need these custom solutions are
often the ones most willing to pay highly for them.
12. I gave away my stuff and didn’t make much money.
What is the writer or musician to do, though, if she can’t earn money from
her art? Simple, says the Slashdotter: earn your money playing live (if you’re
one of those musicians who plays live), or selling T shirts or merchandise, or
providing some other kind of “value-added” service. Many such arguments
seem to me to be simple greed disguised in highfalutin’ idealism about how
“information wants to be free.”
—Steven Poole, author of Trigger Happy

Steven Poole wrote a terrific book about video game culture a half decade
ago, but unfortunately he more recently ran a rather halfhearted experiment in Free. In 2007, after his book was no longer being sold in most
bookstores, he posted it as a file on his blog. He also added a tip jar so
people could give him money if they wanted. Few did—just one out of
every 1,750. So he declared that giving away free books was a bust.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 193

l

193

It is indeed true that his particular experiment was a failure, but that
says more about the exercise than it does about Free. Putting a tip jar
next to free goods is what Mike Masnick of Techdirt, a news and analysis
site, calls the mistake of “give it away and pray.” Rather than being a failed
Free business model, it’s no business model at all.
What’s a better model? Well, for starters, giving away a book closer to
the time of publication, not only years afterward. Take Paulo Coelho.
Total sales of his books topped more than 100 million in 2007, something he credited in part to the buzz he got by putting his most popular
book, The Alchemist, and dozens of translations of his newer books, on
free peer-to-peer file-trading services such as BitTorrent.
Initially, his publisher, HarperCollins, had been against the idea of the
author self-pirating his book. So Coelho set up a fake blog, Pirate Coelho,
ostensibly written by a fan “liberating” the works. It got attention, and
even his older books returned to the New York Times best-seller list. When
his next book, The Witch of Portobello, was published in 2007, he did it
again, and it, too, became a best seller.
That, in turn, got HarperCollins’s attention. It decided to give away a
new Coelho book each month on its own site (albeit only for a month
each, and in a somewhat crippled form that didn’t allow printing).
“I do think that when a reader has the possibility to read some chapters,
he or she can always decide to buy the book later,” Coelho said in an
interview. “The ultimate goal of a writer is to be read. Money comes
later.”
Even less-well-known authors can use Free effectively. Matt Mason,
who wrote The Pirate’s Dilemma, used a name-your-own-price model (with
zero being an option) for ebooks. When you go through the checkout
process, the default price is $5 via PayPal. Of the nearly 8,000 people
who downloaded the book, about 6 percent paid, with an average price
of $4.20. That adds up to only a couple thousand dollars of direct revenues,
but he estimates that the attention he got from the exercise earned him
another $50,000 in lecture fees.
Compared to these examples, a digital tip jar next to the free PDF of
a seven-year-old book is a joke (sorry, Poole!). From where I sit, it seems
bizarre that Poole wasn’t delighted to have found 32,000 new readers for
a book at the end of its life. If, at that point, he can’t then turn that

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

194

13:48

l

Page 194

CHRIS ANDERSON

increased readership into some kind of indirect revenue stream, whether
speaking, teaching, more writing, consulting, or just more traffic to his
blog, he’s not as smart as I think he is.
Free is not a magic bullet. Giving away what you do will not make
you rich by itself. You have to think creatively about how to convert the
reputation and attention you can get from Free into cash. Every person
and every project will require a different answer to that challenge, and
sometimes it won’t work at all. This is just like everything else in life—
the only mystery is why people blame Free for their own poverty of
imagination and intolerance for possible failure.
13. Free is only good if someone else is paying for it.
We don’t want to waste our time with a product or service if it’s not worth
anything. We want things of value, and we don’t want to waste a lot of time
trying to determine if what is being offered is something we would use or
consume. The easiest way to make the determination? See if anyone else is
using it and paying for it.
—Mark Cuban, billionaire technology entrepreneur and owner
of the Dallas Mavericks

Cuban has a point: We often do apply a relative sense of value to free
things depending on what we think their market price is. Just as a “50
percent off” sale can entice you to buy something you don’t really want
because you can’t resist the savings, getting something free when others
are paying can make that thing look more attractive—gratis-tinted glasses.
But this is more the exception than the rule, for two reasons. First, the
ascendant freemium model satisfies Cuban’s challenge perfectly without
actually conforming to his specific construction. In the case of freemium,
someone else is paying, but they’re paying for a premium version of the
product you’re getting for free. That shows that even if the free version
hasn’t passed the wallet test, its cousin has and you can feel confident in
the lineage. For instance, you may feel that Google Earth is of professional quality because it’s related to the very expensive Google Earth Pro,
just with some features removed. (In fairness, Cuban acknowledges that
freemium satisfies his criteria, but because he overstated his thesis and so
many people seem to agree with him, I’ll continue to poke holes.)

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 195

l

195

The second reason Cuban’s point only goes so far is there are so many
counterexamples. Nobody thinks less of Facebook because it’s free or longs
for a Web browser that people are paying for. When something used to
cost money and is now free, you might think less of it—a formerly hot
club now letting in anyone gratis. But if something has always been free
and there is no expectation otherwise, there’s little evidence that people
view it with less regard. Web sites are evaluated on their merits, and people
have learned that a pay site is actually more likely to be a rip-off than a
free one, since it can steal more than just time.
14. Free drives out professionals in favor of amateurs, at a cost
to quality.
It is no coincidence that just as you have the rise of The Huffington Post
that encourages people to give away their content for free you have job losses
and the death of the professional journalist.
—Andrew Keen, author of The Cult of the Amateur

It’s true: Free does tend to level the playing field between professionals
and amateurs. As more people create content for nonmonetary reasons,
the competition to those doing it for money grows. (As the employer of
lots of professional journalists, I think about the relative roles of the
amateurs and the pros all the time.) All this means is that publishing is
no longer the sole privilege of the paid. It doesn’t mean that you can’t
get paid for publishing.
Instead, the professional journalists who are seeing their jobs evaporate
are typically those whose employers failed to find a new role in a world
of abundant information. By and large, that means newspapers, which
are an industry that will probably have to reinvent itself as dramatically
as music labels. The top tier (the New York Times, Wall Street Journal,
etc.) will probably shrink a bit, and the tier below that may be decimated.
But out of the bloodbath will come a new role for professional journalists. There may be more of them, not fewer, as the ability to participate
in journalism extends beyond the credentialed halls of traditional media.
But they may be paid far less, and for many it won’t be a full-time job at
all. Journalism as a profession will share the stage with journalism as an
avocation. Meanwhile, others may use their skills to teach and organize

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

196

13:48

l

Page 196

CHRIS ANDERSON

amateurs to do a better job covering their own communities, becoming
more editor/coach than writer. If so, leveraging the Free—paying people
to get other people to write for nonmonetary rewards—may not be the
enemy of professional journalists. Instead, it may be their salvation.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 197

CODA
FREE IN A TIME OF ECONOMIC CRISIS

After the 2001 stock market crash, the business models of the dot-com
economy were laid bare. How silly we had been to believe that “monetizing
eyeballs” was a good foundation for a business! What were we investors
thinking when we stuffed our portfolios with shares of companies that
sold pet food online? “Amazon.Bomb,” sneered the headlines. We hung
our heads in shame at our embrace of some fanciful “new economy.”
A few years later, when the markets recovered and we looked back,
we found to our surprise that it was practically impossible to see the effect
of the crash on the growth of the Internet. It had continued to spread,
just as before, with hardly a dip as the public markets cratered. The “digital
revolution” hadn’t been a mirage, or worse, a hoax. The number of people
getting online had climbed at the same rate throughout, as had traffic,
and pretty much every other measure of impact.
This had been a Wall Street bubble, not a technology one. The
Web was every bit as important as even the most starry-eyed forecasters
had predicted—it just took a bit longer to get there than the stock market
multiples had assumed.
Now the markets have crashed again. Will Free be more like Web
traffic and grow regardless, or more like online pet food?

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

198

13:48

l

Page 198

CHRIS ANDERSON

From a consumer perspective, Free is far more attractive in a down
economy. After all, when you have no money, $0.00 is a very good
price. Expect the shift toward open source software (which is free)
and Web-based productivity tools such as Google Docs (also free) to
accelerate. The cheapest and coolest computers today are “netbooks,”
which sell for as little as $250 and ship with either free versions of Linux
or supercheap old versions of Windows. The people who buy them don’t
load Office and pay Microsoft hundreds of dollars for the privilege. Instead,
they use online equivalents, as the netbook name implies, and those tend
to be free.
These same consumers are saving their money and playing free online
games, listening to free music on Pandora, canceling basic cable and
watching free video on Hulu, and killing their landlines in favor of Skype.
It’s a consumer’s paradise: The Web has become the biggest store in history
and everything is 100 percent off.
What about those companies trying to build a business on the Web?
In the old days (that would be until September of 2008) the model was
pretty simple: (1) Have a great idea; (2) Raise money to bring it to
market, ideally free to reach the largest possible audience; (3) If it proves
popular, raise more money to scale it up; (4) Repeat until you’re bought
by a bigger company.
Now steps 2 through 4 are no longer available. So Web start-ups are
having to do the unthinkable: come up with a business model that brings
in real money while they’re still young.
This is, of course, nothing new in the world of business. But it is a bit
of a shock in the Web world, where attention and reputation are the
currencies most in demand, with the expectation that a sufficient amount
of either will turn into money someday, somehow.
The standard business model for Web companies that don’t actually
have a business model is advertising. A popular service will have lots of
users, and a few ads on the side will pay the bills. Two problems have
emerged with that model: the price of online ads and click-through rates.
Facebook is an amazingly popular service, but it is also an amazingly ineffective advertising platform. Even if you could figure out what the right
ad to serve next to a high school girl’s party pictures might be, she and
her friends probably won’t click on it. No wonder Facebook applications

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 199

l

199

get less than $1 per 1,000 views (compared to around $20 on big media
Web sites).
Google has built an enviable economic engine on the back of its
targeted text ads, but the sites on which they run rarely feel as flush.
Running Google’s AdSense ads on the side of your blog, no matter how
popular it may be, will not pay you even minimum wage for the time
you spend writing it. On a good month it might cover your hosting fees.
I speak from experience.
What about the oldest trick in the book: actually charging people for
your goods and services? This is where the real innovation will flourish
in a down economy. It’s now time for entrepreneurs to innovate, not just
with new products but with new business models.
Take Tapulous, the creator of Tap Tap Revenge, a popular music game
program for the iPhone. As in Guitar Hero or Rock Band, notes stream
down the screen and you have to hit them on the beat. Millions of people
have tried the free version, and a sizable fraction of them were ready and
willing to pay when Tapulous offered paid versions built around specific
bands, such as Weezer and Nine Inch Nails, along with add-on songs.
(The Wall Street Journal is pursuing a strategy of blending free and paid
content on its Web site.)
At the other end of the business spectrum there’s Microsoft, which
now has to compete with the free word processors and spreadsheets of
online competitors such as Google. Rather than complain about the unfair
competition (which would be ironic), Microsoft created Web versions of its
business software and offered them free to small and young companies.
If your firm is less than three years old and under $1 million in revenues,
you can use Microsoft’s software without charge under its BizSpark
program. When those companies get bigger, Microsoft is betting that
they’ll keep using its software as paying customers. In the meantime, the
program costs Microsoft almost nothing.
But extracting a business model from Free is not always easy, especially
when your users have come to expect gratis. Take Twitter, the fantastically
popular (and free, of course) 140-character messaging service where people
update the world on what they’re doing, one haiku-like snippet at a time.
After taking over the world, or at least the geeky side of it, it now finds
itself having to actually make enough money to cover its bandwidth bills.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

200

13:48

l

Page 200

CHRIS ANDERSON

Last year it hired a revenue guru to try to find a business model and has
announced that it intends to reveal its strategy in 2009. Speculation as to
what that will be ranges from charging companies to have their “tweets”
recommended to consumers (which is a bit like “friending” the Burger
King on Facebook) to certifying identity to avoid impersonation. The
revenue officer has his work cut out for him.
Meanwhile YouTube is still struggling to match its popularity with
revenues, and Facebook is selling commodity ads for pennies after its effort
to charge for intrusive advertising led to a user backlash. And news-sharing
site Digg, for all its millions of users, still doesn’t make a dime. A year
ago, that hardly mattered: The business model was “build to a lucrative
exit, preferably in cash.” But now the exit doors are closed and cash flow
is king.
Does this mean that Free will retreat in a down economy? Probably
not. The psychological and economic case for it remains as good as ever—
the marginal cost of anything digital falls by 50 percent every year, making
pricing a race to the bottom, and “Free” has as much power over the
consumer psyche as ever. But it does mean that Free is not enough. It
also has to be matched with Paid. Just as King Gillette’s free razors only
made business sense paired with expensive blades, so will today’s Web
entrepreneurs have to invent not just products that people love but also
those that they will pay for. Free may be the best price, but it can’t be
the only one.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

Page 201

FREE RULES
THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF ABUNDANCE THINKING

1. If it’s digital, sooner or later it’s going to be free.
In a competitive market, price falls to the marginal cost. The Internet
is the most competitive market the world has ever seen, and the
marginal costs of the technologies on which it runs—processing,
bandwidth, and storage—get closer and closer to zero every year.
Free becomes not just an option but an inevitability. Bits want to
be free.
2. Atoms would like to be free, too, but they’re not so pushy about it.
Outside of the digital realm, marginal costs rarely fall to zero. But
Free is so psychologically attractive that marketers will always find
ways to invoke it by redefining their business to make some things
free while selling others. It’s not really free—it’s probably you paying
sooner or later—but it’s often compelling all the same. Today, by
creatively expanding the definition of their industry, companies from
airlines to cars have found ways to make their core product free by
selling something else.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

202

13:48

l

Page 202

CHRIS ANDERSON

3. You can’t stop Free.
In the digital realm you can try to keep Free at bay with laws and
locks, but eventually the force of economic gravity will win. What that
means is that if the only thing stopping your product from being free
is a secret code or a scary warning, you can be sure that there’s someone
out there who will defeat it. Take Free back from the pirates, and sell
upgrades.
4. You can make money from Free.
People will pay to save time. People will pay to lower risk. People will
pay for things they love. People will pay for status. People will pay if
you make them (once they’re hooked). There are countless ways to
make money around Free (I list fifty of them at the end of the book).
Free opens doors, reaching new consumers. It doesn’t mean you can’t
charge some of them.
5. Redefine your market.
Ryanair’s competitors were in the airline seat business. It decided to
be in the travel business instead. The difference: There are dozens of
ways to make money in travel, from car rentals to subsidies from
destinations hungry for tourists. The airline made its seats cheap, even
free, to make more money around them.
6. Round down.
If the cost of something is heading to zero, Free is just a matter of
when, not if. Why not get there first, before someone else does? The
first to Free gets attention, and there are always ways to turn that into
money. What can you make free today?
7. Sooner or later you will compete with Free.
Whether through cross-subsidies or software, somebody in your business
is going to find a way to give away what you charge for. It may not be
exactly the same thing, but the price discount of 100 percent may
matter more. Your choice: Match that price and sell something else,
or ensure that the differences in quality overcome the differences in
price.

349Q_tx.qxd:Layout 1

23/6/09

13:48

FREE

Page 203

l

203

8. Embrace waste.
If something is becoming too cheap to meter, stop metering it. From
having flat fees to no fees, the most innovative companies are those
who see which way the pricing trends are going and get ahead of
them. “Your voice mail inbox is full” is the death rattle of an industry
stuck with a scarcity model in a world of capacity abundance.
9. Free makes other things more valuable.
Every abundance creates a new scarcity. A hundred years ago entertainment was scarce and time plentiful; now it’s the reverse. When
one product or service becomes free, value migrates to the next higher
layer. Go there.
10. Manage for abundance, not scarcity.
Where resources are scarce, they are also expensive—you have to be
careful how you use them. Thus traditional top-down management,
which is all about control to avoid expensive mistakes. But when
resources are cheap, you don’t have to manage the same way. As
business functions become digital, they can also become more independent without risk of sinking the mothership. Company culture can
shift from “Don’t screw up” to “Fail fast.”

