Kevin Kelly -- New Rules for the New Economy

New Rules for the New Economy
Table of Contents

This New Economy
Chapter 1: Embrace the Swarm
Chapter 2: Increasing Returns
Chapter 3: Plentitude, Not Scarcity
Chapter 4: Follow the Free
Chapter 5: Feed the Web First
Chapter 6: Let Go at the Top
Chapter 7: From Places to Spaces
Chapter 8: No Harmony, All flux
Chapter 9: Relationship Tech
Chapter 10: Opportunities Before Efficiencies
A Thousand Points of Wealth
New Rules for the New Economy
Annotated Bibliography
Acknowledgments
Notes

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desktop...%20rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/contents.php.htm [12/10/2006 8:51:28 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- This New Economy

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
THIS NEW ECONOMY
No one can escape the transforming fire of machines. Technology, which once
progressed at the periphery of culture, now engulfs our minds as well as our lives.
Is it any wonder that technology triggers such intense fascination, fear, and rage?
One by one, each of the things that we care about in life is touched by science and
then altered. Human expression, thought, communication, and even human life
have been infiltrated by high technology. As each realm is overtaken by complex
techniques, the usual order is inverted, and new rules established. The mighty
tumble, the once confident are left desperate for guidance, and the nimble are
given a chance to prevail.
But while the fast-forward technological revolution gets all the headlines these
days, something much larger is slowly turning beneath it. Steadily driving the
gyrating cycles of cool technogadgets and gotta-haves is an emerging new
economic order. The geography of wealth is being reshaped by our tools. We now
live in a new economy created by shrinking computers and expanding
communications.
This new economy represents a tectonic upheaval in our commonwealth, a far
more turbulent reordering than mere digital hardware has produced. The new
economic order has its own distinct opportunities and pitfalls. If past economic
transformations are any guide, those who play by the new rules will prosper, while
those who ignore them will not. We have seen only the beginnings of the anxiety,
loss, excitement, and gains that many people will experience as our world shifts to
a new highly technical planetary economy.
This new economy has three distinguishing characteristics: It is global. It favors
intangible thingsideas, information, and relationships. And it is intensely
interlinked. These three attributes produce a new type of marketplace and society,
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...es%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-intro.html (1 of 7) [12/10/2006 8:46:57 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- This New Economy

one that is rooted in ubiquitous electronic networks.
Networks have existed in every economy. Whats different now is that networks,
enhanced and multiplied by technology, penetrate our lives so deeply that
"network" has become the central metaphor around which our thinking and our
economy are organized. Unless we can understand the distinctive logic of
networks, we cant profit from the economic transformation now under way.
New Rules for the New Economy lays out ten essential dynamics of this emerging
financial order. These rules are fundamental principles that are hardwired into this
new territory, and that apply to all businesses and industries, not just high-tech
ones. Think of the principles outlined in this book as rules of thumb.
Like any rules of thumb they arent infallible. Instead, they act as beacons charting
out general directions. They are designed to illuminate deep-rooted forces that will
persist into the first half of the next century. These ten laws attempt to capture the
underlying principles that shape our new economic environment, rather than chase
current short-term business trends.
The key premise of this book is that the principles governing the world of the
softthe world of intangibles, of media, of software, and of serviceswill soon
command the world of the hardthe world of reality, of atoms, of objects, of steel
and oil, and the hard work done by the sweat of brows. Iron and lumber will obey
the laws of software, automobiles will follow the rules of networks, smokestacks
will comply with the decrees of knowledge. If you want to envision where the
future of your industry will be, imagine it as a business built entirely around the
soft, even if at this point you see it based in the hard.
Of course, all the mouse clicks in the world cant move atoms in real space without
tapping real energy, so there are limits to how far the soft will infiltrate the hard.
But the evidence everywhere indicates that the hard world is irreversibly
softening. Therefore one can gain a huge advantage simply by riding this
conversion. To stay ahead, you chiefly need to understand how the soft world
workshow networks prosper and grow, how interfaces control attention, how
plentitude drives valueand then apply those principles to the hard world of now.
The tricks of the intangible trade will become the tricks of your trade.
The new economy deals in wispy entities such as information, relationships,
copyright, entertainment, securities, and derivatives. The U.S. economy is already
demassifying, drifting toward these intangibles. The creations most in demand
from the United States (those exported) lost 50% of their physical weight per
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...es%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-intro.html (2 of 7) [12/10/2006 8:46:57 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- This New Economy

dollar of value in only six years. The disembodied world of computers,
entertainment, and telecommunications is now an industry larger than any of the
old giants of yore, such as construction, food products, or automobile
manufacturing. This new information-based sector already occupies 15% of the
total U.S. economy.
Yet digital bits, stock options, copyright, and brands have no measurable
economic shape. What is the unit of software: Floppy disks? Lines of code?
Number of programs? Number of features? Economists are baffled. Walter
Wriston, former chairman of Citicorp, likes to grumble that federal economists
can tell us exactly how many left-handed cowboys are employed each year, yet
have no idea how many software programs are in use. The dials on our economic
dashboard have started spinning wildly, blinking and twittering as we head into
new territory. Its possible the gauges are all broken, but it is much more likely the
world is turning upside down.
Remember GM? In the 1950s business reporters were infatuated with General
Motors. GM was the paragon of industrial progress. It not only made cars, it made
America. GM was the richest company on earth. To many intelligent observers,
GM was the future of business in general. It was huge, and bigger was better. It
was stable and paternal, providing lifetime employment. It controlled all parts of
its vast empire, ensuring quality and high profits. GM was the best, and when the
pundits looked ahead 40 years they imagined all successful companies would be
like GM.
How ironic that ever since the future has arrived, GM is now the counter example.
Today, if your company is like GM, its in deep trouble. Instead, pundits point to
Microsoft. Microsoft is the role model. It is the highest-valued company on Earth.
It produces intangibles. It rides the logic of standards. Its sky-high stock valuation
reflects the new productivity. So we look ahead and say: In 40 years all companies
will be like Microsoft.
History would suggest this is a bad bet. The obvious lesson is that we tend to
project the future from whats fashionable at present. Right now software and
entertainment companies are very profitable, so we assume they are role models.
Brad DeLong, an economist at UC Berkeley, has handy theory of economic
history. He says that various sectors of economy wax and wane in prominence like
movie stars. The history of the American economy can be seen as a parade of
"heroic" industries that first appear on the scene as unknowns, then heroically
"save" the economy by doing economic miracles, and for a time are treated as
economic stars. In the 1900s, the automobile industry was heroic: There was
incredible innovation, many, many car company upstarts, incredible productivity.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...es%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-intro.html (3 of 7) [12/10/2006 8:46:57 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- This New Economy

It was a wild and exciting time. But then the heroism died away and the auto
industry became big, monolithic, boring, and hugely profitable. In DeLongs view,
the latest heroic savior is the information, communication, and entertainment
complex. Businesses in the realm of software and communications are now
valorous: They pull successes out of a hat, stack up unending innovation, and
perform economic miracles. Long live computers!
There is a lot of common sense to DeLongs view of heroic industry. Just because
Microsoft is heroic now, doesnt mean all companies will follow their lead and
replicate intellectual property on floppy disks with a profit margin of 90%. No
doubt many, many companies in the future will not resemble Microsoft at all.
Somebody has to fix the plugged toilets of the world, somebody has to build
houses, somebody has to drive the trucks hauling our milk.
Even Wired magazine, mouthpiece of the digital revolutionwhere I serve as one of
the editorsdoes not approach the ideal of an intangible company. Wired is located
smack in the middle of an old-fashioned downtown city, and in one year turns 8
million pounds (or 48 railway cars) of dried tree pulp, and 330,000 pounds of
bright colored ink into hard copies of the magazine. A lot of atoms are involved.
So how can we make the claim that all businesses in the world will be reshaped by
advances in chips and glass fibers and spectrum? What makes this particular
technological advance so special? Why is the business hero of this moment so
much more important than its recent predecessors?
Because communicationwhich in the end is what the digital technology and
media are all aboutis not just a sector of the economy. Communication is the
economy.
This vanguard is not about computers. Computers are over. Most of the
consequences that we can expect from computers as stand-alone machines have
already happened. They have sped up our lives, and made managing words,
numbers, and pixels quite extraordinary, but they have not had much more effect
beyond that.
The new economy is about communication, deep and wide. All the
transformations suggested in this book stem from the fundamental way we are
revolutionizing communications. Communication is the foundation of society, of
our culture, of our humanity, of our own individual identity, and of all economic
systems. This is why networks are such a big deal. Communication is so close to
culture and society itself that the effects of technologizing it are beyond the scale
of a mere industrial-sector cycle. Communication, and its ally computers, is a
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...es%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-intro.html (4 of 7) [12/10/2006 8:46:57 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- This New Economy

special case in economic history. Not because it happens to be the fashionable
leading business sector of our day, but because its cultural, technological, and
conceptual impacts reverberate at the root of our lives.
Certain technologies (such as the integrated circuit chip) spur innovation and
novelty in other technologies; these catalysts are called "enabling technologies."
Occasionally an economic sector will leverage power and accelerate the advance
of other sectors in an economy. These can be thought of as "enabling sectors."
Computer chips and communication networks have produced a sector of an
economy that is transforming all the other sectors.
Only a relatively small number of people have ever been directly employed in the
world of finance. Yet ever since the days of the Venetian bankers, financial
innovations such as mortgages, insurance, venture funding, stocks, checks, credit
cards, mutual funds, to name only a few, have completely reshaped our economy.
They have enabled the rise of corporations, of market capitalism, of the industrial
age, and much more. Unlike many previous heroic industries such as the electrical
power industry or the chemical industry, this small sector has influenced how all
business is done, and how we structure our lives.
As tremendous as the influence of financial inventions have been, the
influence of network inventions will be as great, or greater.
It took several billion years on Earth for unicellular life to evolve. And it took
another billion years or so for that single-celled life to evolve multi-cellular
arrangementseach cell touching a few cells near it to make a living spherical
organism. At first, the sphere was the only form multicellular life could take
because its cells had to be near one another to coordinate their functions. After
another billion years, life eventually evolved the first cellular neurona thin strand
of tissuewhich enabled two cells to communicate over a distance. With that single
enabling innovation, the variety of life boomed. With neurons, life no longer had
to remain bounded in a blob. It was possible to arrange cells into almost any
shape, size, and function. Butterflies, orchids, and kangaroos all became possible.
Life quickly exploded in a million different unexpected ways, into fantastic
awesome varieties, until wonderful life was everywhere.
Silicon chips linked into high-bandwidth channels are the neurons of our culture.
Until this moment, our economy has been in the multicellular stage. Our industrial
age has required each customer or company to almost physically touch one
another. Our firms and organizations resemble blobs. Now, by the enabling
invention of silicon and glass neurons, a million new forms are possible. Boom!
An infinite variety of new shapes and sizes of social organizations are suddenly
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...es%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-intro.html (5 of 7) [12/10/2006 8:46:57 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- This New Economy

possible. Unimaginable forms of commerce can now coalesce in this new
economy. We are about to witness an explosion of entities built on relationships
and technology that will rival the early days of life on Earth in their variety.
In the future very few companies will look like Microsoft, or even Wired. Even
ancient forms will be bent. Farming, and trucking, plumbing, and other traditional
occupations will continue, just as unicellular life continues. But the economics of
farmers and friends, in their own way, will obey the logic of networks, just as
Microsoft does now.
We see evidence for that already. A farmer in Americathe hero of the agricultural
economyrides in a portable office on his tractor. Its air conditioned, has a phone, a
satellite-driven GPS location device, and sophisticated sensors near the ground. At
home his computer is connected to the never-ending stream of weather data, the
worldwide grain markets, his bank, moisture detectors in the soil, digitized maps,
and his own spreadsheets of cash flow. Yes, he gets dirt under his fingernails, but
his manual labor takes place in the context of a network economy.
Much the same can be said about truck drivers. While the experience of sitting
behind a wheel remains unchanged, the new tools of truckingbar codes, radios,
dispatch algorithms, route hubs, and even roads themselvesall follow the logic of
networks. Thus, the very sweat of truckers as they manually load and unload
heavy boxes becomes incorporated into the network economy.
Our economy is an amalgamation of diverse styles of trade, commerce, and social
exchanges. New economic functions develop around the operating old. Barter, one
of the earliest forms of commerce, has not gone away. The barter economy ran
through the agricultural age, the industrial age, and continues today. Indeed most
of what happens on the World Wide Web is barter. Even many years from now a
significant portion of what the economy does will be done by the industrial
layersmachines churning out goods and moving materials. The old economies will
continue to operate profitably within the deep cortex of the new economy.
Yet the inertia of the industrial age continues to mesmerize us. Between 1990 and
1996 the number of people making tangible thingsstuff you can drop on your
toedecreased by 1%, while the number of people employed in providing
"services" (intangibles) grew 15%. Presently a mere 18% of U.S. employment is
in manufacturing. But three quarters of those 18% actually perform network
economy jobs while working for a manufacturing company. Instead of pushing
atoms they push bits around: accountants, researchers, designers, marketing, sales,
lawyers, and all the rest who sit at a desk. Only a minuscule percentage of the
workforce performs industrial age tasks, yet our politics, our media, our funding,
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...es%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-intro.html (6 of 7) [12/10/2006 8:46:57 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- This New Economy

and our education continue the grand fantasy that industrial jobs need to be
created. Within a generation, two at the most, the number of people working in
honest-to-goodness manufacturing jobs will be no more than the number of
farmers in the landless than a few percent. Far more than we realize it, the network
economy is pulling in everyone.
As the world of chips and glass fibers and wireless waves goes, so goes the
rest of the world.
In the face of history this bold assertion may seem naive. But every once in a
while something big and new does happen. It must have felt that way to the homecraft Luddites who sensed that the industrial age was not just about newfangled
looms, but foreshadowed deep, systemic changes with life-changing ramifications.
Were they naive to think that machines would ultimately transform the ancient
and holy act of planting seeds and harvesting the grain? Of breeding cows? Of the
structure of communities?
"Listen to the technology," advises Carver Mead, one of the inventors of the
modern computer chip. "Find out what it is telling you." Following that lead, I
have assembled these rules of thumb by asking these questions: How do our tools
shape our destiny? What kind of an economy is our new technology suggesting?
Steel ingots and rivers of oil, smokestacks and factory lines, and even tiny seeds
and cud-chewing cows are all becoming enmeshed in the world of smart chips and
fast bandwidth, and sooner or later they will begin to fully obey the new rules of
the new economy, as everything will. Ive listened to the technology, and as best as
I can determine, the technology repeats ten distinct refrains, as premiered in the
following ten chapters.
continue...

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...es%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-intro.html (7 of 7) [12/10/2006 8:46:57 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 1: Embrace the Swarm

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
Chapter 1: EMBRACE THE SWARM
The Power of Decentralization
The atom is the icon of the 20th century. The atom whirls alone. It is the metaphor
for individuality. But the atom is the past. The symbol for the next century is the
net. The net has no center, no orbits, no certainty. It is an indefinite web of causes.
The net is the archetype displayed to represent all circuits, all intelligence, all
interdependence, all things economic, social, or ecological, all communications,
all democracy, all families, all large systems, almost all that we find interesting
and important. Whereas the atom represents clean simplicity, the net channels
messy complexity.
The net is our future.
Of all the endeavors we humans are now engaged in, perhaps the grandest of them
all is the steady weaving together of our lives, minds, and artifacts into a global
scale network. This great work has been going on for decades, but recently our
ability to connect has accelerated. Two brand-new technological achievementsthe
silicon chip and the silicate glass fiberhave rammed together with incredible
speed. Like nuclear particles crashing together in a cyclotron, the intersection of
these two innovations has unleashed a never-before-seen force: the power of a
pervasive net. As this grand net spreads, an animated swarm is reticulating the
surface of the planet. We are clothing the globe with a network society.
The dynamic of our society, and particularly our new economy, will
increasingly obey the logic of networks. Understanding how networks work
will be the key to understanding how the economy works.
Any network has two ingredients: nodes and connections. In the grand network we
are now assembling, the size of the nodes is collapsing while the quantity and
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-1.html (1 of 12) [12/10/2006 8:47:08 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 1: Embrace the Swarm

quality of the connections are exploding. These two physical realms, the
collapsing microcosm of silicon and the exploding telecosm of connections, form
the matrix through which the new economy of ideas flows.
A single silicon transistor today can only be seen in a microscope. In a few years it
will take a microscope to see an entire chip of transistors. As the size of silicon
chips shrinks to the microscopic, their costs shrink to the microscopic as well. In
1950 a transistor cost five dollars. Today it costs one hundredth of a cent. In 2003
one transistor will cost a microscopic nanocent. A chip with a billion transistors
will eventually cost only a few cents.
What this means is that chips are becoming cheap and tiny enough to slip into
every object we make. Eventually, every can of soup will have a chip on its lid.
Every light switch will contain a chip. Every book will have a chip embedded in
its spine. Every shirt will have at least one chip sewn into its hem. Every item on a
grocery shelf will have stuck to it, or embedded within itself, a button of silicon.
There are 10 trillion objects manufactured in the world each year and the day will
come when each one of them will carry a flake of silicon.
This is not crazy, nor distant. Ten years ago the notion that all doors in a building
should contain a computer chip seemed ludicrous, but now there is hardly a hotel
door in the U.S. without a blinking, beeping chip in its lock. These microscopic
chips will be so cheap well throw them away. Thin slices of plastic known as
smart cards now hold a throwaway chip smart enough to be your banker. If
National Semiconductor gets its way, soon every FedEx package will be stamped
with a disposable silicon flake that smartly tracks the contents of the package on
its journey. And if an ephemeral envelope can have a chip, so can your chair, each
bag of candy, a new coat, a basketball. Soon, all manufactured objects, from
sneakers to drill presses to lamp shades to cans of soda, will contain a tiny sliver
of embedded thought.
And why not?
Today the world is populated by 200 million computers. Andy Grove of Intel
happily estimates that well see 500 million computers by 2002. Yet for every
expensive chip put into a beige computer box, there are now 30 other cheap
processors put into everyday things. The number of noncomputer chips already
pulsating in the world is 6 billionone chip for every human on Earth.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-1.html (2 of 12) [12/10/2006 8:47:08 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 1: Embrace the Swarm

Network organizations
experience small gains while
thieir network is being seeded.
Once the network is established,
explosive growth follows with
relatively little additional genius.

You already have a non-PC chip embedded in your car and stereo and rice cooker
and phone. These chips are dumb chips, with limited ambitions. A chip in your
cars brakes doesnt have to do floating-point math, spreadsheets, or video
processing; it only needs to brake like a bulldog.
Because they have limited functions and can be produced in great quantity, these
dumb chips are ultracheap to make. One industry observer calculated that an
embedded processor chip costs less to manufacture than a ball bearing. Since they
can be stamped out as fast and cheap as candy gumdrops, these chips are known in
the trade as "jelly beans." Dumb, cheap jelly bean chips are invading the world far
faster than PCs did.
This is not surprising. You can only use one or two personal computers at a time,
but the number of other objects in your life is almost unlimited. First, well put
jelly bean chips into high-tech appliances, then later into all tools, and then
eventually into all objects. If current rates continue therell be some 10 billion tiny
grains of silicon chips embedded into our environment by 2005.
Putting a dot of intelligence into every object we make at first gives us a billion
dimwitted artifacts. But we are also, at the same time, connecting these billion
nodes, one by one.
We are connecting everything to everything.
There is something mysterious that happens when we take large numbers of things
that are fairly limited and connect them all together. When we take the dumb chip
in each cash register in a store and link them into a swarm, we have something
more than dumb. We have real-time buying patterns that can manage inventory. If
we take the dumb chips that already regulate the guts of an automobile engine, and
let them communicate an engines performance to the mechanic of a trucking firm,
those dumb chips can smartly cut expensive road repairs. (Mercedes Benz recently
announced it is planning to embed a web server into its top-of-the-line model cars
so technicians can spot service problems remotely.) When connected into a
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-1.html (3 of 12) [12/10/2006 8:47:08 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 1: Embrace the Swarm

swarm, small thoughts become smart.
When we permit any object to transmit a small amount of data and to receive
input from its neighborhood, we change an inert object into an animated
node.
It is not necessary that each connected object transmit much data. A tiny chip
plastered inside a water tank on an Australian ranch transmits only the telegraphic
2-bit message of whether the tank is FULL or NOT. A chip attached to the ear of
each steer on the same ranch beams out his location in GPS numbers; nothing
more. "Im here, Im here" it tells the ranchers log book; nothing more. The chip in
the gate at the end of the ranchers road communicates only a single word,
reporting when it was last opened: "Tuesday."
It does not take sophisticated infrastructure to transmit these dumb bits. Stationary
objectsparts of a building, tools on the factory floor, fixed camerasare wired
together. The nonstationary restthat is, most manufactured objectsare linked by
infrared and radio, creating a wireless web vastly larger than the wired web. The
same everyday frequencies that run garage door openers and TV remote controls
will be multiplied by the millions to carry the dumb messages of connected
objects.
The glory of these connected crumbs is that they dont need to be individually
sophisticated. They dont need speech recognition, artificial intelligence, or fancy
expert systems. Instead, the network economy relies on the dumb power of bits
linked together into a swarm.
Our brains tap into dumb power by clumping dumb neurons into consciousness.
The internet banks on dumb power by connecting dumb personal computers. A
personal computer is like a single brain neuron in a plastic box. When linked by
the telecosm into a neural network, these dumb PC nodes create that fabulous
intelligence called the World Wide Web.
Again and again we see the same dynamic at work in other domains: Dumb cells
in our body work together in a swarm to produce an incredibly smart immune
system, a system so sophisticated we still do not fully comprehend it.
Dumb parts, properly connected into a swarm, yield smart results.
A trillion dumb chips connected into a hive mind is the hardware. The software
that runs through it is the network economy. A planet covered with hyperlinked
chips is shrouded with waves of sensibility. Millions of moisture sensors in the
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-1.html (4 of 12) [12/10/2006 8:47:08 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 1: Embrace the Swarm

fields of farmers shoot up data, hundreds of weather satellites beam down
digitized images, thousands of cash registers spit out bit streams, myriad hospital
bedside monitors trickle out signals, millions of web sites tally attention, and tens
of millions of vehicles transmit their location code; all of this swirls into the web.
That matrix of signals is the net.
The net is not just humans typing at one another on AOL, although that is a part of
it and will be as long as seduction and flaming are enjoyable. Rather, the net is the
total collective interaction of a trillion objects and living beings, linked together
through air and glass.
This is the net that begets the network economy. According to MCI, data traffic on
the global phone system will soon overtake voice traffic. The current total volume
of voice traffic is 1,000 times that of data, but in three years that ratio will flip.
ElectronicCast estimates data trafficthe talk of machineswill be ten times voice
traffic by 2005. That means that by 2001 most of the signals zipping around the
Earth will be machines talking to machinesfile transfers, data streams, and the
like. The network economy is already expanding to include new participants:
agents, bots, objects, and servers, as well as several billion more humans. We
wont wait for AI to make intelligent systems; well do it with the swarm power of
ubiquitous computing and pervasive connections.
The surest way to smartness is through massive dumbness.
The surest way to advance massive connectionism is to exploit decentralized
forcesto link the distributed bottom. How do you build a better bridge? Let the
parts talk to one another. How do you improve lettuce farming? Let the soil speak
to the farmers tractors. How do you make aircraft safe? Let the airplanes
communicate among themselves and pick their own flight paths. This
decentralized approach, known as "free flight," is a system the FAA is now trying
to institute to increase safety and reduce air-traffic bottlenecks at airports.
Mathematical problems which were once intractable for super-computers have
been solved by using a swarm of small PCs. A very complex problem is broken up
into tiny parts and distributed throughout the network. Likewise, vast research
projects that would tax any one institution can be distributed to an ad hoc network.
The Tree of Life is a worldwide taxonomic catalog of all living species on Earth
administered on the web. Such a project is beyond the capabilities of one person
or group. But a decentralized network can produce the necessary intelligence.
Each local expert supplies their own data (on finches, or ferns or jellyfish) to fill
in some of the blanks. As Larry Keely of the Doblin Group says, "No one is as
smart as everyone."
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-1.html (5 of 12) [12/10/2006 8:47:08 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 1: Embrace the Swarm

Any process, even the bulkiest, most physical process, can be tackled by bottomup swarm thinking. Take, for example, the delivery of wet cement in the less-thandigital economy of rural northern Mexico. Here Cemex (Cementos Mexicanos)
runs a ready-mix cement business that is overwhelming its competitors and
attracting worldwide interest. It used to be that getting a load of cement delivered
on time to a construction site in the Guadalajara region was close to a miracle.
Traffic delays, poor roads, contractors who werent ready when they said they
would be, all added up to an on-time delivery rate of less than 35%. In response,
cement companies tried to enforce rigid advance reservations, which, when things
went wrong (as they always did), only made matters worse ("Sorry, we cant
reschedule you until next week.").
Cemex transformed the cement business by promising to deliver concrete faster
than pizza. Using extensive networking technologyGPS real-time location signals
from every truck, massive telecommunications throughout the company, and full
information available to drivers and dispatchers, with the authority to act on itthe
company was able to promise that if your load was more than 10 minutes late, you
got a 20% discount.
Instead of rigidly trying to schedule everything ahead of time in an environment of
chaos, Cemex let the drivers themselves schedule deliveries ad hoc and in real
time. The drivers formed a flock of trucks crisscrossing the town. If a contractor
called in an order for 12 yards of mix, the available truck closest to the site at that
time would make the delivery. Dispatchers would ensure customer
creditworthiness and guard against omissions, but the agents in the field had
permission and the information they needed to schedule orders on the fly. Result:
On-time delivery rates reached about 98%, with less wastage of hardened cement,
and much happier customers.
Similar thinking has been used in a GM paint plant in Fort Wayne, Indiana. The
wonderful choice of colors that customers now enjoy on new vehicles was playing
havoc on the paint line. When one car after another is sprayed black, everything is
easy. But when one car is red and the next white, the painting process is slowed
down as painting equipment is cleansed of one color to make it ready for the next.
(The clean-out procedure also wastes paint left in the paint lines.) Why not gang
up all the white cars and do them together? Because ganging up slows the line. A
car has to be built and completed as it is ordered, as quickly as possible. The
solution embraces the swarm.
In the paint factory each robot painter (basically a dimwitted painting arm) is
empowered to bid on a paint job. If it is currently painting red and a car slated to
be red is coming down the assembly line, it says, "Let me do it," and it beckons
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-1.html (6 of 12) [12/10/2006 8:47:08 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 1: Embrace the Swarm

the car to its paint station. The robots schedule their own work. They have very
tiny brainlets, connected to a server. No central brain coordinates; the schedule
comes from the swarm of mini-brains. The result: GM saves $1.5 million a year.
The equipment requires less paint (due to less cleaning between cars), and keeps
the line moving faster.
Railways are now employing swarm technology. Centralized traffic control doesnt
work when the traffic becomes very complex and time cycles are shortened. The
Japanese use a bottom-up swarm model to schedule their famous bullet express
trains, which boast incredible punctuality. Switching is done locally and
autonomously as if the trains were a swarm with one mind. Railway owners in
Houston are hoping to get a swarm model running for their rail yards. With their
current centrally controlled system, the switching yards are so clogged that there is
a permanent train of freight cars circling the greater Houston area as a buffer. Its
like a mobile parking lot. When theres an opening in the yard, cars are pulled out
of the holding pattern train. But with a system based on the swarm model, local
lines can autonomously switch themselves, using minimal intelligence onboard.
Such a self-regulating and self-optimizing system would reduce delays.
Thats how the internet handles its amazing loads of traffic. Every email message
is broken into bits, with each bit addressed in an envelope, and then all the
fragmentary envelopes are sent into a global web of pathways. Each envelope
seeks the quickest route it can find instant by instant. The email message becomes
a swarm of bits that are reassembled at the other end into a unified message. If the
message is re-sent to the same destination, the second time it may go by a wholly
different route. Often the paths are inefficient. Your email may go to Timbuktu
and back on its way across town. A centralized switching system would never
direct messages in such a wasteful manner. But the inefficiencies of individual
parts is overcome by the incredible reliability of the system as a whole.
The internet model has many lessons for the new economy but perhaps the most
important is its embrace of dumb swarm power. The aim of swarm power is
superior performance in a turbulent environment. When things happen fast and
furious, they tend to route around central control. By interlinking many simple
parts into a loose confederation, control devolves from the center to the lowest or
outermost points, which collectively keep things on course.
A successful system, though, requires more than simply relinquishing control
completely to the networked mob.
Complete surrender to the bottom is not what embracing swarm is about.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-1.html (7 of 12) [12/10/2006 8:47:08 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 1: Embrace the Swarm

Let me retell a story that I told in Out of Control, a book that details the
advantages, disadvantages, quirks, and consequences of complex systems
governed by swarmlike processes. This story illustrates the power of a swarm, but
it has a new ending, which shows how dumb power is not always enough.
In 1990 about 5,000 attendees at a computer graphics conference were asked to
operate a computer flight simulator devised by Loren Carpenter. Each participant
was connected into a network via a virtual joy stick. Each of the 5,000 copilots
could move the planes up/down, left/right controls as they saw fit, but the
equipment was rigged so that the jet responded to the average decisions of the
swarm of 5,000 participants. The flight took place in a large auditorium, so there
was lateral communication (shouting) among the 5,000 copilots as they attempted
to steer the plane. Remarkably, 5,000 novices were able to land a jet with almost
no direction or coordination from above. One came away, as I did, convinced of
the remarkable power of distributed, decentralized, autonomous, dumb control.
About five years after the first show (this is the update), Carpenter returned to the
same conference with an improved set of simulations, better audience input
controls, and greater expectations. This time, instead of flying a jet, the challenge
was to steer a submarine through a 3D under-sea world to capture some sea
monster eggs. The same audience now had more choices, more dimensions, and
more controls. The sub could go up/down, forward/back, open claws, close claws,
and so on, with far more liberty than the jet had. When the audience first took
command of the submarine, nothing happened. Audience members wiggled this
control and that, shouted and counter-shouted instructions to one another, but
nothing moved. Each persons instructions were being canceled by another persons
orders. There was no cohesion. The sub didnt budge.
Finally Loren Carpenters voice boomed from a loudspeaker in the back of the
room. "Why dont you guys go to the right?" he hollered. Click! Instantly the sub
zipped of to the right. With emergent coordination the audience adjusted the
details of sailing and smoothly set off in search of sea monster eggs.
Loren Carpenters voice was the voice of leadership. His short message carried
only a few bits of information, but that tiniest speck of top-down control was
enough to unleash the swarm below. He didnt steer the sub. The audience of 5,000
novice cocaptains did that very complicated maneuvering, magically and
mysteriously. All Loren did was unlock the swarms paralysis with a vision of
where to aim. The swarm again figured out how to get there in the same
marvelous way that they had figured out how to land the jet five years earlier.
Without some element of governance from the top, bottom-up control will
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-1.html (8 of 12) [12/10/2006 8:47:08 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 1: Embrace the Swarm

freeze when options are many. Without some element of leadership, the many
at the bottom will be paralyzed with choices.
Numerous small things connected together into a network generate tremendous
power. But this swarm power will need some kind of minimal governance from
the top to maximize its usefulness. Appropriate oversight depends on the network.
In a firm, leadership is supervision; in social networks, government; in technical
networks, standards and codes.
We have spent centuries obsessed with the role of top-down governance. Its
importance remains. But the great excitement of the new economy is that we have
only now begun to explore the power of the bottom, where peers holds sway. It is
a vast mother lode waiting to be tapped. With the invention of a few distributed
systems, such as the internet, we have merely probed the potential of what
minimally centralized networks can do.
At present, there is far more to be gained by pushing the boundaries of what
can be done by the bottom than by focusing on what can be done at the top.
When it comes to control, there is plenty of room at the bottom. What we are
discovering is that peer-based networks with millions of parts, minimal oversight,
and maximum connection among them can do far more than anyone ever
expected. We dont yet know what the limits of decentralization are.
The great benefits reaped by the new economy in the coming decades will be
due in large part to exploring and exploiting the power of decentralized and
autonomous networks.
First we make a chip for every object. Then we connect them. We continue to
connect all humans. We enlarge our conversation to include the world, and all its
artifacts. We let the network of objects govern itself as much as possible; we add
government where needed. In this matrix of connections, we interact and create.
This is the net that is our future.
The whole process wont be completed by tomorrow, but the destiny is clear. We
are connecting all to all, until we encompass the entire human-made world. And in
that embrace is a new power.

Strategies
Move technology to invisibility. As technology becomes ubiquitous it also
becomes invisible. The more chips proliferate, the less we will notice them. The

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-1.html (9 of 12) [12/10/2006 8:47:08 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 1: Embrace the Swarm

more networking succeeds, the less well be aware of it.
In the early 1900s, at the heroic stage of the industrial economy, motors were
changing the world. Big, heavy motors ran factories and trains and the gears of
automation. If big motors changed work, they were sure to change the home, too.
So the 1918 edition of the Sears, Roebuck catalog featured the Home Motora fivepound electrical beast that would "lighten the burden of the home." This single
Home Motor would supply all the power needs of a modern family. Also for sale
were plug-ins that attached to the central Home Motor: an egg beater device, a
fan, a mixer, a grinder, a buffer. Any job that needed doing, the handy Home
Motor could do. Marc Weiser, a scientist at Xerox, points out that the electric
motor succeeded so well that it became invisible. Eighty years later nobody owns
a Home Motor. We have instead dozens of micro-motors everywhere. They are so
small, so embedded, and so common that we are unconscious of their presence.
We would have a hard time just listing all the motors whirring in our homes today
(fans, clocks, water pumps, video players, watches, etc.). We know the industrial
revolution succeeded because we can no longer see its soldiers, the motors.
Computer technology is undergoing the same disappearance. If the information
revolution succeeds, the standalone desktop computer will eventually vanish. Its
chips, its lines of connection, even its visual interfaces will submerge into our
environment until we are no longer conscious of their presence (except when they
fail). As the network age matures, well know that chips and glass fibers have
succeeded only when we forget them. Since the measure of a technologys success
is how invisible it becomes, the best long-term strategy is to develop products and
services that can be ignored.
If it is not animated, animate it. Just as the technology of writing now covers
almost everything we make (not just paper), so too the technologies of interaction
will soon cover all that we make (not just computers). No artifact will escape the
jelly bean chip; everything can be animated. Yet even before chips reach the
penny price, objects can be integrated into a system as if they are animated.
Imagine you had a million disposable chips. What would you do with them? Its a
good bet that half of the value of those chips could be captured now, with existing
technology, by creating a distributed swarmlike intelligence using such dumb
power.
If it is not connected, connect it. As a first step, every employee of an institution
should have intimate, easy, continuous access to the institutions medium of
choiceemail, voicemail, radio, whatever. The benefits of communication often
dont kick in until ubiquity is approached; aim for ubiquity. Every step that
promotes cheap, rampant, and universal connection is a step in the right direction.
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-1.html (10 of 12) [12/10/2006 8:47:08 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 1: Embrace the Swarm

Distribute knowledge. Use the minimal amount of data to keep all parts of a
system aware of one another. If you operate a parts warehouse, for example, your
system needs to be knowledgeable of each parts location every minute. Thats done
by barcoding everything. But it needs to go further. Those parts need to be aware
of what the system knows. The location of parts in a warehouse should shift
depending on how well they sell, what kind of backlog a vendor forecasts, how
their substitutes are selling. The fastest-moving items (which will be a dynamic
list) may want to be positioned for easier picking and shipping. The items move in
response to the outsideif there is a system to spread the info.
Get machines to talk to one another directly. Information should flow laterally and
not just into a center, but out and between as well. The question to ask is, "How
much do our products/services know about our business?" How much current
knowledge flows back into the edges? How well do we inform the perimeter,
because the perimeter is the center of action.
If you are not in real time, youre dead. Swarms need real-time communication.
Living systems dont have the luxury of waiting overnight to process an incoming
signal. If they had to sleep on it, they could die in their sleep. With few
exceptions, nature reacts in real time. With few exceptions, business must
increasingly react in real time. High transaction costs once prohibited the
instantaneous completion of thousands of tiny transactions; they were piled up
instead and processed in cost-effective batches. But no longer. Why should a
phone company get paid only once a month when you use the phone every day?
Instead it will eventually bill for every call as the call happens, in real time. The
flow of crackers off grocery shelves will be known by the cracker factory in real
time. The weather in California will be instantly felt in the assembly lines of Ohio.
Of course, not all information should flow everywhere; only the meaningful
should be transmitted. But in the network economy only signals in real time (or
close to it) are truly meaningful. Examine the speed of knowledge in your system.
How can it be brought closer to real time? If this requires the cooperation of
subcontractors, distant partners, and far-flung customers, so much the better.
Count on more being different. A handful of sand grains will never form an
avalanche no matter how hard one tries to do it. Indeed one could study a single
grain of sand for a hundred years and never conclude that sand can avalanche. To
form avalanches you need millions of grains. In systems, more is different. A
network with a million nodes acts significantly different from one with hundreds.
The two networks are like separate speciesa whale and an ant, or perhaps more
accurately, a hive and an ant. Twenty million steel hammers swinging in unison is
still 20 million steel hammers. But 20 million computers in a swarm is much,
much more than 20 million individual computers.
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-1.html (11 of 12) [12/10/2006 8:47:08 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 1: Embrace the Swarm

Do what you can to make "more." In a network the chicken-and-egg problem can
hinder growth at firsttheres no audience because there is no content, and there is
no content because there is no audience. Thus, the first efforts at connecting
everything to everything sometimes yield thin fruit. At first, smart cards look no
different from credit cardsjust more inconvenient. But more is different; 20
million smart cards is a vastly different beast than 20 million credit cards.
Its the small things that change the most in value as they become "more." A tiny
capsule that beeps and displays a number, multiplied by millions: the pager
system. What if all the Gameboys or Playstations in the world could talk to one
another? What if all the residential electric meters in a city were connected
together into a large swarm? If all the outdoor thermometers were connected, we
would have a picture of our climate a thousand times better than we have ever had
before.
The ants have shown us that there is almost nothing so small in the world that it
cant be made larger by embedding a bit of interaction in many copies of it, and
then connecting them all together.
The game in the network economy will be to find the overlooked small and figure
out the best way to have them embrace the swarm.
continue...

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-1.html (12 of 12) [12/10/2006 8:47:08 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 2: Increasing Returns

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
Chapter 2: INCREASING RETURNS
Self-Reinforcing Success
Networks have their own logic. When you connect all to all, curious things happen.
Mathematics says the sum value of a network increases as the square of the
number of members. In other words, as the number of nodes in a network
increases arithmetically, the value of the network increases exponentially.*
Adding a few more members can dramatically increase the value for all
members.
*I use the vernacular meaning of "exponential" to mean "explosive
compounded growth." Technically, n2 growth should be called
polynomial, or even more precisely, a quadractic; a fixed exponent
(2 in this case) is applied to a growing number n. True exponential
growth in mathematics entails a fixed number (say 2) that has a
growing exponent, n, as in 2n. The curves of some polynomials and
exponentials look similar, except the exponential is even steeper; in
common discourse the two are lumped together.
This amazing boom is not hard to visualize. Take 4 acquaintances; there are 12
distinct one-to-one friendships among them. If we add a fifth friend to the group,
the friendship network increases to 20 different relations; 6 friends makes 30
connections; 7 makes 42. As the number of members goes beyond 10, the total
number of relationships among the friends escalates rapidly. When the number of
people (n) involved is large, the total number of connections can be approximated
as simply n 3 n, or n2. Thus a thousand members can have a million friendships.
The magic of n2 is that when you annex one more new member, you add many
more connections; you get more value than you add. Thats not true in the
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-2.html (1 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:20 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 2: Increasing Returns

industrial world. Say you owned a milk factory, and you had 10 customers who
bought milk once a day. If you increased your customer base by 10% by adding
one new customer, you could expect an increase in milk sales of 10%. Thats
linear. But say, instead, you owned a telephone network with 10 customers who
talked to each other once a day. Your customers would make about n2 (102), or
100 calls a day. If you added one more new customer, you increased your
customer base by 10%, but you increased your calling revenue by a whopping
20% (since 112 is 20% larger than 102). In a network economy, small efforts can
lead to large results.
A networks tendency to explode in value mathematically was first noticed by Bob
Metcalfe, the inventor of a localized networking technology called Ethernet.
During the late 1970s Metcalfe was selling a combination of Ethernet, Unix, and
TCP/IP (the internet protocol), as a way to make large networks out of many small
ones. Metcalfe says, "The idea that the value of a network equals n squared came
to me after I failed to get networks to work on a small scale, despite many
repeated experiments." He noticed that networks needed to achieve critical mass
to make them worthwhile. But he also noticed that as he linked together small
local networks here and there, the value of the combined large network would
multiply abruptly. In 1980 he began formulating his law: value 5 n 3 n.
In fact, n2 underestimates the total value of network growth. As economic
journalist John Browning notes, the power of a network multiplies even faster than
this. Metcalfes observation was based on the idea of a phone network. Each
telephone call had one person at each end; therefore the total number of potential
calls was the grand sum of all possible pairings of people with phones. But online
networks, like personal networks in real life, provide opportunities for
complicated three-way, four-way, or many-way connections. You can not only
interact with your friend Charlie, but with Alice and Bob and Charlie at the same
time. The experience of communicating simultaneously with Charlies group in an
online world is a distinct experience, separate in its essential qualities, from
communicating with Charlie alone. Therefore, when we tally up the number of
possible connections in a network we have to add up not only all the combinations
in which members can be paired, but also all the possible groups as well. These
additional combos send the total value of the network skyrocketing. The precise
arithmetic is not important. It is enough to know that the worth of a network races
ahead of its input.
This tendency of networks to drastically amplify small inputs leads to the second
key axiom of network logic: the law of increasing returns. In one way or another
this law undergirds much of the strange behavior in the network economy. The
simplest version goes like this: The value of a network explodes as its membership

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-2.html (2 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:20 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 2: Increasing Returns

increases, and then the value explosion sucks in yet more members, compounding
the result.
An old saying puts it succinctly: Them thats got shall get.
A new way of saying it: Networks encourage the successful to be yet more
successful. Economist Brian Arthur calls this effect "increasing returns."
"Increasing returns" he says, "are the tendency for that which is ahead to get
further ahead; for that which loses advantage to lose further advantage."

In networks, we find selfreinforcing virtuous circles. Each
additional member increases the
network's value, which in turn
attracts more members, initiating
a spiral of benefits.

In the industrial economy success was self-limiting; it obeyed the law of
decreasing returns. In the network economy, success is self-reinforcing; it
obeys the law of increasing returns.
We see the law of increasing returns operating in the way areas such as Silicon
Valley grow; each successful new start-up attracts other start-ups, which in turn
attract more capital and skills and yet more start-ups. (Silicon Valley and other
high-tech industrial regions are themselves tightly coupled networks of talent,
resources, and opportunities.)
At first glance the law of increasing returns may seem identical to the familiar
textbook notion of economies of scale: The more of a product you make, the more
efficient the process becomes. Henry Ford leveraged his success in selling
automobiles to devise more productive methods of manufacturing cars. This
enabled Ford to sell his cars more cheaply, which created larger sales, which
fueled more innovation and even better production methods, sending his company
to the top.
That self-feeding circle is a positive feedback loop. While the law of increasing
returns and the economies of scale both rely on positive feedback loops, there are
two key differences.
First, industrial economies of scale increase value gradually and linearly. Small
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-2.html (3 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:20 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 2: Increasing Returns

efforts yield small results; large efforts give large results. Networks, on the other
hand, increase value exponentiallysmall efforts reinforce one another so that
results can quickly snowball into an avalanche. Its the difference between a piggy
bank and compounded interest.
Second, and more important, industrial economies of scale stem from the
herculean efforts of a single organization to outpace the competition by creating
value for less. The expertise (and advantage) developed by the leading company is
its alone. By contrast, networked increasing returns are created and shared by the
entire network. Many agents, users, and competitors together create the networks
value. Although the gains of increasing returns may be reaped unequally by one
organization, the value of the gains resides in the greater web of relationships.
These positive feedback loops are created by "network externalities." Anything
that creates (or destroys) value which cannot be appointed to someones account
ledgers is an externality. The total value of a telephone system lies outside the
total internal value of the telephone companies and their assets. It lies externally in
the greater phone network itself. Networks are particularly potent sources of
external value and have become a hot spot of economic investigation in the last
decade. A parade of recently published academic papers scrutinize the fine points
of network externalities: When do they arise? How do they break down? Are they
symmetrical? Can they be manipulated?
One reason increasing returns and network externalities are garnering attention is
because they tend to create apparent monopolies. Huge amounts of cash pour
toward network winners such as Cisco or Oracle or Microsoft, and that makes
everyone else nervous. Are network superwinners in fact monopolies? They are
not like any monopolies of the industrial age. When antitrust hearings are
conducted today, the witnesses are not customers angered by high pricing,
haughty service, or lack of optionsthe traditional sins of a monopolist. Customers
have nothing to complain about because they get lower prices, better service, and
more features from network superwinnersat least in the short term. The only ones
complaining about superwinners are their competitors, because increasing returns
create a winner-take-most environment. But in the long term, the customer will
have reason to complain if competitors pull back or disappear.
The new monopolies are different in several ways. Traditional monopolies
dominated commodities. In the new order, as Santa Fe Institute economist Brian
Arthur points out, "Dominance may consist not so much in cornering a single
product as in successively taking over more and more threads of the web of
technology." Superwinners can practice a type of crossover where control of one
layer of the web leverages control into others. Owning the standard for voice
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-2.html (4 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:20 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 2: Increasing Returns

phone calls can ease the likelihood of owning the standard for fax transmissions.
The unacceptable transgression of the traditional monopolist was that as a monoseller (thus the Greek, mono-polist), it could push prices up and quality down. But
the logic of the net inherently lowers prices and raises quality, even those of a
single-seller monopolist. In the network economy, the unpardonable transgression
is to stifle innovation, which is what happens when competition is stifled. In the
new order, innovation is more important than price because price is a derivative of
innovation.
Mono-sellers are actually desirable in a network economy. Because of increasing
returns and n2 value, a single large pool is superior to many smaller pools. The
network economy will breed mono-sellers with great fertility. What is intolerable
in a network economy is "monovation"depending upon a single source of
innovation. The danger of monopolists in the network economy is not that they
can raise prices but they can become monovationists. But there are ways to
encourage "polyvation"multiple sources of innovationin a world of monopolists:
by creating open systems, by moving key intellectual properties into the public
domain, by releasing source code democratically. As we come to understand the
importance of increasing returns and the other new rules of the network economy,
we can expect shifts in our understanding of the role of market winners.
Industrial monopolies exploited simple economies of scale for their own benefit.
Network effects are not about economies of scale, they are about value that is
created above and beyond a single organizationby a larger networkand then
returned to the parts, often unevenly. Because some portion of the value of a
network firm so obviously comes from external sources, allegiance is often
granted to external sources.
We see this in the way network effects govern the growth of Silicon Valley.
Silicon Valleys success is external to any particular companys success, and so
loyalty is external, too. As AnnaLee Saxenian, author of Regional Advantage,
notes, Silicon Valley has in effect become one large, distributed company. People
job-hop so frequently that folks "joke that you can change jobs without changing
car pools. Some say they wake up thinking they work for Silicon Valley. Their
loyalty is more to advancing technology or to the region than it is to any
individual firm."
This trend seems likely to extend further. We are headed into an era when both
workers and consumers will feel more loyalty to a network than to any ordinary
firm. The great innovation of Silicon Valley is not the wowie-zowie hardware and
software it has invented. Silicon Valleys greatest "product" is the social
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-2.html (5 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:20 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 2: Increasing Returns

organization of its companies and, most important, the networked architecture of
the region itselfthe tangled web of former jobs, intimate colleagues, information
leakage from one firm to the next, rapid company life cycles, and agile email
culture. This social web, suffused into the warm hardware of jelly bean chips and
copper neurons, creates a true network economy.
The social web, even in the Valley, displays some stress marks. There is no
question that the network economy is, at worst, winner-take-all, and at best,
winner-take-most. The trajectory of increasing returns and a shortage of attention
focuses success toward a few points. Stars and hits rise, while the rest languish.
Mundane appliances and bulky objects now seem to follow the Hollywood model:
A few brands sell like crazy, and the rest sell only a few. Its a "hits" economy,
where resources flow to those that show some life. If a new novel, new product, or
new service begins to succeed it is fed more; if it falters, its left to wither. Them
that has, gets more.
The current great debate is whether the law of increasing returns favors the early
or not. In some of the first studies of increasing returns, economist Brian Arthur
discovered that when technological competitors, such as the VHS and Betamax
video formats, were modeled in a computer, increasing returns favored one
technology over the otherto the eventual demise of the unfortunate one (in this
case Betamax). And "unfortunate" is the right word. According to Arthurs
research, the technology that came to dominate, thanks to increasing returns, was
not necessarily the superior one. It was just the lucky one. Or the early one. Arthur
writes: "If a product or a company or a technologyone of many competing in a
marketgets ahead by chance or clever strategy, increasing returns can magnify this
advantage, and the product or company can go on to lock in the market."
All things being equal, early success has a measurable advantage. But in real life
all things are rarely equal. Technologies which seem to be inferior and yet prevail
through the dynamics of increased returns often reveal themselves under further
study to be slightly superior in key ways. The Sony Betamax format lost to VHS
because it couldnt record for as long as VHS could, and, according to some,
because Sony discouraged Beta use for pornoan early use of video. Apple
Computers superior operating system lost to Windows because Apple had an
inferior pricedue to its misguided monopolist strategy. The supposedly ergonomic
Dvorak keyboard lost to the all-too-familiar QWERTY keyboard because the
Dvorak layout really wasnt any faster.
Being first or best sometimes helps, but not always. The outcome of competition
in a network is not determined solely by the abilities of the competitors, but by
tiny differences, including luck, that are greatly magnified by the power of
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-2.html (6 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:20 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 2: Increasing Returns

positive feedback loops. The fate of competition is "path dependent" on minor
nudges and hurdles that can "tip" the system in one direction or another. Final
destiny cannot be predicted on the basis of exceptional attributes alone.
What can be predicted is the way in which networks enlarge small advantages,
and then lock the advantage in. In the same way, initial parameters and
conventions can quickly freeze into unalterable standards. The solidifying
standards of a network are both a blessing and a cursea blessing because the ad
hoc agreement reduces risk, and thus sparks widespread progress, and a curse
because those who own or control the standard are disproportionately rewarded.
But the network economy doesnt allow the blessing without the curse. Microsofts
billions are tolerated (more or less) because so many others in the network
economy have made their collective billions on the advantages of Microsofts
increasing-returns standards.
We forget how recent and sudden Microsofts prominence is. Microsoft is a
textbook example of Metcalfes law ("The value of Windows increases
exponentially as its users increase arithmetically") and the law of increasing
returns ("The more who use NT, the more attractive NT becomes"). Microsoft also
illustrates the third corollary of increasing returns: how small signals can suddenly
become booms.
During its first 10 years, Microsofts profits were negligible. Its profits rose above
the background noise of Wall Street only around 1985. But once they began to
rise, they exploded. A chart of Microsofts cornucopia of profits is an
exponentially booming curve, one that parallels several other rising stars in the
network economy.
Federal Express experienced a similar trajectory: years of minuscule profit
increases, slowly ramping up to an invisible threshold, and then surging skyward
in a blast sometime during the early 1980s.
The story of fax machines is likewise a tale of a 20-year-long overnight success.
After two decades of marginal success, the number of fax machines quietly
crossed the point of no return during the mid-1980sand the next thing you know,
they were everywhere.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-2.html (7 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:20 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 2: Increasing Returns

Network organizations
experience small gains while
thieir network is being seeded.
Once the network is established,
explosive growth follows with
relatively little additional genius.

The archetypal case of a success explosion in a network economy is the Internet
itself. As any proud old-time nethead will be happy to explain, the internet was a
lonely (but thrilling!) cultural backwater for two decades before it showed up on
the media radar. A graph of the number of internet hosts worldwide, starting in the
1970s, stays barely above the bottom line, until around 1991, when the global tally
of hosts suddenly mushroomed, exponentially acting upward to take over the
world.
The curves of Microsoft, the internet, fax machines and FedEx (I owe Net Gain
author John Hagel credit for these four examples) are templates of exponential
growth, compounding in a biological way. Such curves are almost the definition
of a biological system. Thats one reason the network economy is often described
most accurately in biological terms. Indeed, if the web feels like a frontier, its
because for the first time in history we are witnessing biological growth in
technological systems.
A good definition of a network is organic behavior in a technological matrix.
The compounded successes of Microsoft, FedEx, fax machines, and the internet
all hinge on the prime law of networks: Value explodes exponentially with
membership, and this heightened value acts like gravity drawing in yet more
members. The virtuous circle inflates until all potential members are joined.
This explosion, however, did not ignite until approximately the late 1980s. Two
things happened thenthe dual big bangs of almost-free jelly bean chips and
collapsing telco charges. It became feasiblethat is, dirt cheapto exchange data
almost anywhere, anytime. The net, the grand net, began to precipitate out of this
supersaturated solution. Network power followed.
One of the hallmarks of the industrial age was its reasonable expectations. Success
was in proportion to effort. Small effort, small gains. Large effort, large gains.
This linear ratio is typical of capital investments and resource allotments.
According to data from the U.S. Statistical Abstract, the best-selling products in
the 1950sappliances such as refrigerators, clocks and washing machinessold
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-2.html (8 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:20 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 2: Increasing Returns

steadily with only a slight 2% annual increase in the number of units sold per year.
To imagine the future of an enterprise or innovation one needed only to
extrapolate the current trends in a straight line. There was a comfortable
assumptionlargely truethat the world proceeded linearly. Entirely new
phenomenona did not ordinarily appear out of nowhere and change everything
within months.
With the advent of large-scale electronic media networks in the mid century, that
assumption began to erode. Millions of kids watching TV grew up to create rapid
fads (hula hoops), instant youth cultures such as the beats and hippies, with
sudden spontaneous gatherings of half a million, as at Woodstock. Events did not
happen linearly. With media networks it was no longer safe to extrapolate the
future from the recent past. When success came, it often fed on itself in crazy
hyperkinetic booms. The recent sales of electronic pets is one example.
Tamagotchis, the original brand of Japanese toy pets, went from sales of zero in
Japan to 10 million units in their first year, to 20 million by the second year. When
they were introduced in the United States a half million units were sold in the first
month. The Tamagotchis could be actual breeding animals judging simply from
their growth rate because their sales curve follows the population curve of
reproducing biological animals. One day there are two pets, the next year there are
200. In biological populations, success can easily compound into runaway growth;
now this wild runaway growth is happening with technology.
Everyday we see evidence of biological growth in technological systems. This
is one of the marks of the network economy: that biology has taken root in
technology. And this is one of the reasons why networks change everything.
Heres how this happened. Most of the technology in the early part of the century
was relegated to the inside of a factory. Only businessmen cared about advancing
technologycheaper production methods or more specialized materials. The
consumer products this advanced technology spun off into homes were, more
often than not, labor-saving devicessewing machines, vacuum cleaners, water
pumps. They saved time, and thereby enhanced the prevailing culture. But the
devices themselves (except for the automobile) were merely gadgets. They were
technologysomething foreign, best used in small doses, and clearly not the social
and economic center of our lives. It was once very easy to ignore technology
because it did not penetrate the areas of our lives we have always really cared
about: our networks of friendship, writing, painting, cultural arts, relationships,
self-identity, civil organizations, the nature of work, the acquisition of wealth, and
power. But with the steady advent of technology into the networks of
communication and transportation, technology has completely overwhelmed these
social areas. Our social space has been invaded by the telegraph, the phonograph,

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-2.html (9 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:20 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 2: Increasing Returns

the telephone, the photograph, the television, the airplane and car, then by the
computer, and the internet, and now by the web.
Technology has become our culture, our culture technology.
Technology is no longer outside, no longer alien, no longer at the periphery. It is
at the center of our lives. "Technology is the campfire around which we gather,"
says musician/artist Laurie Anderson. For many decades high tech was marginal
in presence. Then suddenlyblinkit is everywhere and all-important.
Technology has been able to infiltrate into our lives to the degree it has because it
has become more like us. Its become organic in structure. Because network
technology behaves more like an organism than like a machine, biological
metaphors are far more useful than mechanical ones in understanding how the
network economy runs.
But if success follows a biological model, so does failure. A cautionary tale: One
day, along the beach, tiny red algae suddenly blooms into a vast red tide. A few
weeks later, just when the red mat seems indelible, it vanishes. Lemmings boom,
then disappear as suddenly. The same biological forces that multiply populations
can decimate them. The same forces that feed on one another to amplify network
presences creating powerful standards overnight can also work in reverse to
unravel them in a blink. The same forces that converge to build up organizations
in so biological a fashion can also converge to tear them down. One can expect
that when Microsofts fortunes falter, their profits will plunge in a curve inversely
symmetrical to their success. All the self-reinforcing reasons to join a networks
success run in reverse when the success turns to failure and everyone wants to flee.
One more biological insight can be gleaned from the success of Microsoft, FedEx,
and the internet. In retrospect one can see that at some point in their history the
momentum toward them became so overwhelming that success became a runaway
event. Success became infectious, so to speak, and spread pervasively to the extent
that it became difficult for the uninfected to avoid succumbing. Take the arrival of
the phone network. How long can you hold out not having a phone? Only 6% of U.
S. homes are still holding out.
In epidemiology, the point at which a disease has infected enough hosts that it
must be considered a raging epidemic can be thought of as the tipping point. The
contagions momentum has tipped from pushing uphill against all odds to rolling
downhill with all odds behind it. In biology, the tipping points of fatal diseases are
fairly high, but in technology, they seem to be triggered at much lower points.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-2.html (10 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:20 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 2: Increasing Returns

There has always been a tipping point in any business, industrial or network, after
which success feeds upon itself. However, the low fixed costs, insignificant
marginal costs, and rapid distribution that we find in the network economy
depresses tipping points below the levels of industrial times; it is as if the new
bugs are more contagiousand more potent. It takes a smaller initial pool to lead to
runaway dominance, sooner.
Lower tipping points also mean that the threshold of significancethe period before
the tipping point during which a movement, growth, or innovation must be taken
seriouslyis also dramatically lower than it was during the industrial age. Detecting
developments while they are beneath this threshold of significance is essential.

During the exponential gains
peculiar to networks,
compounding effects can pass a
point of runaway growth. But it is
before this point, before
momentum builds, that one needs
to pay attention.

Major U.S. retailers refused to pay attention to TV home-shopping networks
during the 1980s because the number of people watching and buying from them
was initially so small and marginalized that it did not meet the established level of
retail significance. The largest U.S. retailers work in the realm of hundreds of
millions. The first TV home shopping was dealing in the realm of thousands.
Retailers discovered that shoppers would watch 50 hours of home-shopping
programs before making their first purchase. The retailers considered this horrible
news. But it turns out "watching others do it" was an initiation ritual. Shoppers
trust other shoppers. Once shoppers were "invested" in the process by watching
many others do it successfully, they kept coming back. So small numbers grew
steadily and then rapidly as more shoppers brought in yet more shoppers. Instead
of heeding the new subtle threshold of network economics, the retailers waited
until the alarm of the tipping point sounded, which meant, by definition, that it
was too late for them to cash in.
In the past, an innovations momentum indicated significance. Now, in the
network environment, where biological behavior reigns, significance precedes
momentum.
One final parable rooted in biology. In a pond one summer a floating lily leaf
doubles in size every day until it covers the entire surface of water. The day before
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-2.html (11 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:20 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 2: Increasing Returns

it completely covers the pond, the water is only half covered, and the day before
that, only a quarter covered, and the day before that, only a measly eighth. While
the lily grows imperceptibly all summer long, only in the last week of the cycle
would most bystanders notice its "sudden" appearance. By then, it is far past the
tipping point.
The network economy is like a lily pond. Most of the pond looks empty, but a few
lilies are doubling in size. The web, for example, is a leaf doubling every six
months. Despite the one million web sites to date, the webs future has just begun.
Other lily leaves are sprouting along the edges of the pond: MUDs, Irridium
phones, wireless data ports, collaborative bots, WebTV, and remote solid state
sensors. Right now, they are all just itsy-bitsy lily cells brewing at the beginning
of a hot network summer. One by one, they will pass their tipping points, and
suddenly become ubiquitous.

Strategies
Check for externalities. The initial stages of exponential growth looks as flat as
any new growth. How can you detect significance before momentum? By
determining whether embryonic growth is due to network effects rather than to the
firms direct efforts. Do increasing returns, open systems, n2 members, multiple
gateways to multiple networks play a part? Products or companies or technologies
that get slightly aheadeven when they are second bestby exploiting the nets effects
are prime candidates for exponential growth.
Coordinate smaller webs. The fastest way to amp up the worth of your own
network is to bring smaller networks together with it so they can act as one larger
network and gain the total n2 value. The internet won this way. It was the network
of networks, the stuff in between that glued highly diverse existing networks
together. Can you take the auto parts supply network and coordinate it with the
insurance adjusters network plus the garage repair network? Can you coordinate
the intersection of hospital records with standard search engine technology? Do
the networks of county property deed databases, U.S. patents, and small-town
lawyers have anything useful in common? Three thousand members in one
network are far more powerful than one thousand members in three networks.
Create feedback loops. Networks sprout connections and connections sprout
feedback loops. There are two elementary kinds of loops: Self-negating loops such
as thermostats and toilet bowl valves, which create feedback loops that regulate
themselves, and self-reinforcing loops, which are loops that foster runaway
growth such as increasing returns and network effects. Thousands of complicated

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-2.html (12 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:20 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 2: Increasing Returns

loops are possible using combinations of these two forces. When internet
providers first started up, most charged users steeper fees to log on via high-speed
modem; the providers feared speedier modems would mean fewer hours of
billable online time. The higher fees formed a feedback loop that subsidized the
providers purchase of better modems, but discouraged users from buying them.
But one provider charged less for high speed. This maverick created a loop that
rewarded users to buy high-speed modems; they got more per hour and so stayed
longer. Although it initially had to sink much more capital into its own modem
purchases, the maverick created a huge network of high-speed freaks who not only
bought their own deluxe modems but had few alternative places to go at high
speed. The maverick provider prospered. As a new economy business concept,
understanding feedback is as important as return-on-investment.
Protect long incubations. Because the network economy favors the nimble and
quick, anything requiring patience and slowness is handicapped. Yet many
projects, companies, and technologies grow best gradually, slowly accumulating
complexity and richness. During their gestation period they will not be able to
compete with the early birds, and later, because of the law of increasing returns,
they may find it difficult to compete as well. Latecomers have to follow Druckers
Rulethey must be ten times better than what they hope to displace. Delayed
participation often makes sense when the new offering can increase the ways to
participate. A late entry into the digital camera field, for instance, which offered
compatibility with cable TV as well as PCs, could make the wait worthwhile.
Its a hits game for everyone. In the network economy the winner-take-all
behavior of Hollywood hit movies will become the norm for most productseven
bulky manufactured items. Oil wells are financed this way now; a few big gushers
pay for the many dry wells. You try a whole bunch of ideas with no
foreknowledge of which ones will work. Your only certainty is that each idea will
either soar or flop, with little in between. A few high-scoring hits have to pay for
all the many flops. This lotterylike economic model is an anathema to
industrialists, but thats how network economies work. There is much to learn from
long-term survivors in existing hits-oriented business (such as music and books).
They know you need to keep trying lots of things and that you dont try to predict
the hits, because you cant.
Two economists proved that hitsat least in show bizwere unpredictable. They
plotted sales of first-run movies between May 1985 and January 1986 and
discovered that "the only reliable predictor of a films box office was its
performance the previous week. Nothing else seemed to matternot the genre of the
film, not its cast, not its budget." The higher it was last week, the more likely it
will be high this weekan increasing returns loop fed by word of mouth
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-2.html (13 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:20 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 2: Increasing Returns

recommendations. The economists, Art De Vany and David Walls, claim these
results mirror a heavy duty physics equation known as the Bose-Einstein
distribution. The fact that the only variable that influenced the result was the result
from the week before, means, they say, that "the film industry is a complex
adaptive system poised between order and chaos." In other words, it follows the
logic of the net: increasing returns and persistent disequilibrium.
continue...

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-2.html (14 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:20 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 3: Plentitude Not Scarcity

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
Chapter 3: PLENTITUDE, NOT SCARCITY
Value Flows from Abundance
Plentitude, not scarcity, governs the network economy. Duplication, replication,
and copies run in excess. Whatever can be made, can be made in abundance. This
plentitude:
drives value
● works to open up closed systems
● spins off immense numbers of opportunities
●

Consider the first modern fax machine that rolled off the conveyor belt around
1965. Despite millions of dollars spent on its R&D, it was worth nothing. Zero.
The second fax machine to be made immediately made the first one worth
something. There was someone to fax to. Because fax machines are linked into a
network, each additional fax machine that is shipped increases the value of all the
fax machines operating before it.
This is called the fax effect. The fax effect dictates that plentitude generates value.
So strong is this power of plentitude that anyone purchasing a fax machine
becomes an evangelist for the fax network. "Do you have a fax?" fax owners ask
you. "You should get one." Why? Because your purchase increases the worth of
their machine. And once you join the network, youll begin to ask others, "Do you
have a fax (or email, or Acrobat software, etc.)?" Each additional account you can
persuade to join the network substantially increases the value of your account.
When you buy a fax machine, you are not merely buying a $200 box. Your $200
purchases the entire network of all other fax machines in the world and the
connections among thema value far greater than the cost of all the separate
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-3.html (1 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:24 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 3: Plentitude Not Scarcity

machines. Indeed, the first fax machines cost several thousands of dollars and
connected to only a few other machines, and thus were not worth much. Today
$200 will buy you a fax network worth $3 billion.

The low price of a fax machine
today buys you an entire network,
consisting of eighteen million
machines. Each additional unit
sold increases the value of your
machine.

In the network economy, the more plentiful things become, the more valuable
they become.
This notion directly contradicts two of the most fundamental axioms we inherited
from the industrial age.
First hoary axiom: Value comes from scarcity. Take the icons of wealth in the
industrial agediamonds, gold, oil, and college degrees. These were deemed
precious because they were scarce.
Second hoary axiom: When things are made plentiful, they become devalued. For
instance, carpets. They were once rare handmade items found only in houses of
the rich. They ceased to be status symbols when they could be woven by the
thousands on machines. The traditional law was fulfilled: commonness reduces
value.
The logic of the network flips this industrial lesson upside down. In a network
economy, value is derived from plentitude, just as a fax machines value increases
as fax machines become ubiquitous. Power comes from abundance. Copies are
cheap. Let them proliferate.
Ever since Gutenberg made the first commoditycheaply duplicated wordswe have
realized that intangible things can easily be copied. This lowers the value per
copy. What becomes valuable is the relationshipssparked by the copiesthat tangle
up in the network itself. The relationships rocket upward in value as the parts
increase in number even slightly.
Windows NT, fax machines, TCP/IP, GIF images, RealAudioall born deep in the

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-3.html (2 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:24 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 3: Plentitude Not Scarcity

network economyadhere to this logic. But so do metric wrenches, triple-A
batteries, and other devices that rely on universal standards. The more common
they are, the more it pays you to stick to that standard. We have an even older
example in the English language. Wherever the expense of churning out another
copy becomes trivial (and this is happening in more than software), the value of
standards and the network booms.
In the future, cotton shirts, bottles of vitamins, chain saws, and the rest of the
industrial objects in the world will also obey the law of plentitude as the cost of
producing an additional copy of them falls steeply.
Proprietary, or "closed," systems were once rare because industrial systems were
relatively uncomplicated. Proprietary systems rose in popularity as advancing
technology made it difficult to replicate a system without assistance or
encroaching on patents. The creators of a closed system made a nice living. When
the information economy was first launched several decades ago, the dream was to
own and operate a proprietary systemone that no one else could copyand then let
the money roll in. To a degree that can still be done, at least for short period, if the
system is significantly superior. Bloomberg terminals in Wall Street traders
offices is one current example. But the network economy rewards the plentitude of
open systems more than the scarcity of closed systems. It is a bit of a cliche now
to blame Apples misfortunes on its insistence that its operating systems be treated
as a scarce resource but its true. Apple had more than one opportunity to license
its particularly wonderful interfacethe now familiar desktop and windows
designbut backed off each time, thereby guaranteeing its eventual eclipse by the
relatively more open DOS and Windows systems.
There is a place for isolation in the infancy of systems, but openness is needed for
growth because it taps into a larger wealth. Citibank pioneered the use of 24-hour
instant cash at ATMs in the 1970s. They blanketed New York City with their
proprietary machines, and at first this strategy was highly successful. Smaller
competing banks started their own tiny and proprietary ATM networks, but they
couldnt compete against the high penetration of Citibank machines. Then, led by
Chemical Bank, these smaller banks banded together to form an open ATM
network called Plus. The power of n2 kicked in. Suddenly any ATM was your
ATM. Citibank was invited to join the open Plus network but declined. Following
the principle of increasing returns, the handy Plus system attracted more and more
customers, and soon overwhelmed the once dominant Citibank. Eventually the
open factor forced Citibank to forgo their proprietary ways and join.
Every time a closed system opens, it begins to interact more directly with
other existing systems, and therefore acquires all the value of those systems.
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-3.html (3 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:24 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 3: Plentitude Not Scarcity

In the mid 1980s I was associated with a pioneering online community called the
Well. You dialed the Wells special modem, and once logged on you could chat,
post, and email anyone you wantedwithin the Well. All 2,000 members. Within a
short time after start-up the Well made a big jump and opened its mail service to
the then-obscure internet. The value of the Well suddenly skyrocketed in the view
of its 2,000 or so members because now they could email thousands of academic
professors or corporate nerds. A few years later, the Well further opened up its
system to a capability called ftp, which allowed Well users to grab files on other
internet servers and allowed others to grab files on the Well server. Again, the
value of the Well exploded; with only a small effort it gained the tremendous
value of the entire ftp network. Eventually the Well opened up even further,
allowing users to join the conversation via the web, thereby acquiring all the value
of the web.
There was a cost in each step. With every inclusion there was less control of the
environment, more noise, more danger of disruption by accident or hacker, and
more worry that the business model would collapse. At the same time it was
obvious that a totally closed Well would have died.
The idea of plentitude is to create something that has as many systems and
standards flowing through it as possible. The more networks a thing touches, the
more valuable it becomes.
The value of an invention, company, or technology increases exponentially as
the number of systems it participates with increases linearly.
The law of plentitude is not about dominance. The self-interest of ordinary
business guarantees that every company in the world will strive to get its product
or service into every home, or into every store. Popularity is an ancient goal. But
that is not what network plentitude strives for.
The abundance upon which the network economy is built is one of
opportunity.
While it is true that every additional email address in the world increases the value
of all previous email addresses (thats the primary effect of plentitude) the increase
in value happens because each email address is a node of opportunity, not just an
artifact. An email address is more than a way to exchange memos. Because email
is rooted in a network, opportunity runs in several directions at once. For instance,
once it was realized that mail addresses could be archived easily (opportunity
number one), it occurred to someone that they could be collected automatically

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-3.html (4 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:24 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 3: Plentitude Not Scarcity

(opportunity two). They could also be mailed to in bulk (opportunity three). The
domain part of the address could be analyzed and used to detect patterns of usage
(opportunity four). Addresses in a Rolodex could be updated automatically by the
addressee (opportunity five). The address artifact itself could contain more than
just a name; it could also hold other facets of interests that the owner was willing
to exchange in certain circumstances (opportunity six).

A hammer is part of only a few
networks, but a telephone is a part
of many. The more networks a
product or service can join, the
more powerful it becomes.

Contrast this cascading abundance of opportunities with almost any product of the
industrial agesay an electric rotary saw, or a color-fast dye, or a maplewood chair.
While some of these objects have a few dual uses (the chair could be used as a
step stool or to wedge a door open, and the saw motor could be used to drive a
drill), they are pretty much limited to their designed intentions. There is no river
of opportunities flowing from them. So that even if chairs, dye, and saws were to
become universally abundant, their physical plentitude would not change the
world much.
The power of the fax effectmore fax machines increasing the value of all previous
machinesdoes not rely on the proliferation of Panasonic brand fax machines, or of
any particular machine. Since many faxes are sent from laptop computers, or from
a server somewhere, the power of plenty derives from opportunities rather than
lumps of matter.
As opportunities proliferate, unintended uses take off. In the late 1970s, the Shah
of Iran exiled his rival, the Ayatollah Khomeini, to Paris. Since the Shah
controlled his countrys media he assumed Khomeini would not be able to reach
the Iranian people from France to stir up trouble. But sympathetic Iranian clergy
exploited an unsuspected technological opportunity: the cassette tape. Every week
in Paris Khomeinis friends recorded his inflammatory speeches on cheap
recorders and smuggled copies (easily disguised as music tapes) into Iran, to be
multiplied on $200 duplication machines and passed out to every mosque. On
Fridays, Khomeinis sermons were played throughout Iran on boomboxes. The
clerics turned the common tape deck into a broadcast network. Im sure that not a
single engineer who developed cassette tape technology ever envisioned it being
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-3.html (5 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:24 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 3: Plentitude Not Scarcity

used for broadcasting. Electronic media, because it is animated by electrons, is
highly susceptible to being subverted by new uses.
Recently Sprint, the telecommunications company, pioneered flat cellular phone
pricingyou could make all the cell phone calls you want for a fixed monthly fee.
Within days of the pricing, the startled marketing experts at Sprint heard reports
that people were using the cell phones as baby monitors. Parents would go into
babys bedroom with a cell phone, dial the kitchen, and then leave the line open.
Voilà!
The more interconnected a technology is, the more opportunities it spawns
for both use and misuse.
Some of the best video games of all time were elegant little programs that ran on
early computers such as the Commodore 64. Millions of C-64s were sold during
the early 1980s; most of them lie at the bottom of landfills today. Their flealike
memories and lack of disk space have been replaced by Powerbooks and
Pentiums. The few still working are sold at collectors prices. But out on the web,
filling niches no one could have predicted, are a flock of emulators. You can
download a Commodore 64 emulator onto your Powerbook. At the click of a
button it will turn your state-of-the-art workstation into a moronic C-64 (or one of
25 other golden oldies) so you can play an ancient version of Moondust, or
PacMan. This is equivalent to having a switch on the dashboard of your Ferrari to
make it run like a VW Bug.
These refreshing street uses for technology stem from the plentitude of
interactions. Artifacts of the industrial economy yield limited potential for such
weird, tangential uses. The network economy, on the other hand, is a cornucopia
of products and innovations that cry out to be subverted in new ways. Indeed, in a
network, new opportunities arise primarily when existing opportunities are seized.
A business that successfully occupies a niche immediately creates at least two new
niches for other businesses. There is, for example, no end to the number of
companies that will find a niche in email; the more wild ideas that are created, the
more wild ideas can be created. The arms race between spammers and readers is
only in its infancy.
The law of plentitude is most accurately rendered thus: In a network, the
more opportunities that are taken, the faster new opportunities arise.
Furthermore, the number of new opportunities increases exponentially as existing
opportunities are seized. Networks spew fecundity because by connecting
everything to everything, they increase the number of potential relationships, and
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-3.html (6 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:24 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 3: Plentitude Not Scarcity

out of relationships come products, services, and intangibles.
A standalone object, no matter how well designed, has limited potential for new
weirdness. A connected object, one that is a node in a network that interacts in
some way with other nodes, can give birth to a hundred unique relationships that it
never could do while unconnected. Out of this tangle of possible links come
myriad new niches for innovations and interactions.
A network is a possibility factory.
So tremendous is the fount of plentitude in the network economy that having to
deal with nearly infinite choices and mushrooming possibilities may be the
limiting factor in the future. Navigating sanely through an expanding ocean of
options is already difficult. The typical supermarket in America offers 30,000 to
40,000 products. The average shopper will zoom through the store in 21 minutes,
and select out of those 40,000 choices about 18 items. This is an amazing feat of
decision making. But it is nothing compared to what happens on the web. There
are one million indexed web sites, containing 250 million pages. To be able to
find the right page out of that universe is astounding, and the number of pages
doubles every year. Dealing with this plentitude is critical because the totals of
everything we manufacture in the world are only compounding. The total amount
of information stored in the entire worldthats counting all the libraries, film vaults,
and data archivesis estimated to be about 2,000 petabytes. (A petabyte is a billion
megabytes, or about a quadrillion books the size of this one.) Thats a lot of bits.
Plentitude will soon reach the level of zillionics. We know from mathematics that
systems containing very, very large numbers of parts behave significantly
different from systems with fewer than a million parts. Zillionics is the state of
supreme abundance, of parts in the many millions. The network economy
promises zillions of parts, zillions of artifacts, zillions of documents, zillions of
bots, zillions of network nodes, zillions of connections, and zillions of
combinations. Zillionics is a realm much more at home in biologywhere there
have been zillions of genes and organisms for a long timethan in our recent
manufactured world. Living systems know how to handle zillionics. Our own
methods of dealing with zillionic plentitude will mimic biology.
The network economy runs with plentitude. It vastly expands the numbers of
things, increases the numbers of intangibles with ease, multiplies the numbers of
connections exponentially, and creates new opportunities without number.

Strategies
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-3.html (7 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:24 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 3: Plentitude Not Scarcity

Touch as many nets as you can. Because the value of an action in the network
economy multiplies exponentially by the number of networks that action flows
through, you want to touch as many other networks as you can reach. This is
plentitude. You want to maximize the number of relations flowing to and from
you, or your service or product. Imagine your creation as being born inert, like a
door nail off a factory conveyor belt. The job in the network economy is to link
the nail to as many other systems as possible. You want to adapt it to the
contractor system by making it a standard contractor size so that it fits into
standard air-powered hammers. You want to give it a SKU designation so it can
be handled by the retail sales network. It may want a bar code so it can be read by
a laser-read checkout system. Eventually, you want it to incorporate a little bit of
interacting silicon, so it can warn the door of breakage, and take part in the smart
house network. For every additional system the nail is a part of, it gains in value.
Best of all, the systems and all their members also gain in value from every nail
that joins.
And thats just for a stick of iron. More complex objects and services are capable
of permeating far more systems and networks, thus greatly boosting their own
value and the plentiful value of all the systems they touch.
Maximize the opportunities of others. In every aspect of your business (and
personal life) try to allow others to build their success around your own success. If
you run a hotel, what can you do to permit othersairlines, luggage retailers, tour
guidesto be part of your network? Rather than viewing their dependency on your
success as a form of parasitism, or worse, as a rip-off, understand this tight
coupling as sustenance. You want to entice others to create services centered
around the customer attention you have won, or to supply add-ons to your product,
or even, if it is a new-fangled idea, to create legal imitations. This is a counterintuitive stance at first, but it plays right into the logic of the net. A small piece of
an expanding pie is the biggest piece of all. Software is especially primed to work
this way. The programmers who created the hit game Doom deliberately made it
easy to modify. The results: Hundreds of other gamers issued versions of Doom
that were vastly better than the original, but that ran on the Doom system. Doom
boomed and so did some of the derivatives. The software economy is full of such
examples. Third-party templates for spreadsheets, word processors, and browsers
make profits for both the third-party vendor and the host system. It takes only a bit
of imagination to see how the leveraging of opportunities also works in domains
outside of software. When confronted with a fork in the road, if all things are
equal, go down the path that makes the opportunities of others plentiful.
Dont pamper commodities; let them flow. The cost of replicating anything will
continue to go down. As it does, the primary cost will be developing the first
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-3.html (8 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:24 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 3: Plentitude Not Scarcity

copy, and then getting attention to it. No longer will it be necessary to coddle most
products. Instead they should be liberated to flow everywhere. Lets take
pharmaceuticals, especially genetically bio-engineered pharmaceuticals. The cost
of little pills in the drug store can be hundreds of times greater than what they cost
to produce in quantity, yet many drugs are priced expensively in order to recoup
their astronomical development costs. Pharmaceutical companies treat and price
their drugs as scarcities. One can expect, however, that in the future, as drug
design becomes more networked, more data-driven, more computer mediated, and
as drugs themselves become smarter, more adaptive, more animated, the
competitive advantage will go to those companies that let "copies" of the drug
flow in plentitude. For example, a highly evolved bioengineered headache relief
drug may be sold for a few dollars on a "take as much as you need" basis. The
company makes its profits when you pay it handsomely for tailoring that drug
specifically for your DNA and your body. Once designed, you pay almost nothing
for additional refills. Indeed there are already a few start-up biotech companies
headed this way. The field is called parmacogenomics. They are heeding the call
of plentitude.
Avoid proprietary systems. Sooner or later closed systems have to open up, or
die. If an online service requires dialing a special phone number to reach it, its
moribund. If it needs a special gizmo to read it, its kaput. If it cant share what it
knows with competing goods, its a loser. Closed systems close off opportunities
for others, making leverage points scarce. This is why the network economywhich
is biased toward plentyroutes around closed systems. One could safely bet that
America Online, WebTV, and Microsoft Network (MSN)three somewhat closed
systemswill eventually go entirely onto the open web, or disappear. The key issue
in closed-versus-open isnt private versus public, or who owns a system; often
private ownership can encourage innovation. The issue is whether it is easy or
difficult for others to invent something that plays off your invention. The strategic
question is simple: How easy is it for someone outside of the host company to
contribute an advance to their system or product or service? Are the opportunities
for participating in your own network scarce or plentiful?
Dont seek refuge in scarcity. Every era is marked by the wealth of those who
figure out what the new scarcity is. There will certainly be scarcities in the
network economy. But far greater wealth will be made by exploiting the
plentitude. To make sure you are not seeking refuge in scarcity, ask yourself this
question: Will your creation thrive if it becomes ubiquitous? If its value depends
on only a few using it, you should reconsider it in light of the new rules.
continue...

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-3.html (9 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:24 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 3: Plentitude Not Scarcity

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-3.html (10 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:24 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 4: Follow The Free

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
Chapter 4: FOLLOW THE FREE
Why the Net Rewards Generosity
The very best gets cheaper each year. This principle is so ingrained in our lifestyle
that we bank on it without marveling at it. But marvel we should, because this
paradox is a major engine of the new economy.
Before the industrial age, consumers could expect only slight improvements in
quality for slight increases in price. Over the years the improved cost more. But
with the arrival of automation and cheap energy in the industrial age,
manufacturers could invert the equation: They offered lower costs and increased
quality. Between 1906, when autos were first being made, and 1910, only four
years later, the cost of the average car had dropped 24%, while its quality rose by
31%. By 1918, the average car was 53% cheaper than its 1906 counterpart, and
100% better in performance quality. The better-gets-cheaper magic had begun.
The arrival of the microprocessor accelerated this wizardry. In the information
age, consumers quickly have come to count on drastically superior quality for
drastically reduced price over time. A sensible recommendation to anyone asking
for shopping advice today is that they should delay buying a consumer good until
about 60 seconds before they actually need it. Indeed, a transportation specialist
told me that almost nothing in the information industry is shipped by sea anymore;
it all goes by air, so the price wont have a chance to drop while the product is in
transit.
So certain is the plummet of prices that economists have mapped the curve of their
fall. The cost of making somethingwhether it is steel, light bulbs, airplanes, flower
pots, insurance policies, or breadwill drop over time as a function of the
cumulative number of units produced. The more an industry makes, the better it
learns how to make them, the more the cost drops. The downward price curve,
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-4.html (1 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:29 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 4: Follow The Free

propelled by organizational learning, is sometimes called the learning curve.
Although it varies slightly in each industry, generally doubling the total output of
something will reduce the unit cost on average by 20%.
Smart companies will anticipate this learning curve. Very smart companies will
accelerate it by increasing volumes, one way or another. Since increasing returns
can exponentially expand the demand of itemsdoubling their totals in
monthsnetwork effects speed the steep fall of prices.
Computer chips further compound the learning curve. Better chips lower the cost
of all manufactured goods, including new chips. Engineers use the virtues of
computers to directly and indirectly create the next improved version of
computers, quickening the rate at which chips are made, and their prices drop,
which speed the rate at which all goods become cheaper. Around a circle the
virtues go.
Feedback loops saturate networks. Since so many people and machines are
interlinked in overlapping feedback loops, virtuous circles form. One, two, three,
four, it all adds up to more.
Expanding knowledge makes computers smarter.
● As computers get smarter we transfer some of that intelligence to the
production line, lowering costs of goods and raising their
perfectionincluding chips.
● Cheaper chips lower the cost of setting up a competing enterprise, so
competition and spreading knowledge lowers the prices yet more.
● The know-how of cheapness spreads throughout industry quickly and
makes its way back to the creation of better/cheaper chip and
communication tools.
●

That virtuous circle feeds itself voraciously. So potent is compounding chip power
that everything it touchescars, clothes, foodfalls under its spell. Prices dip and
quality rises in all goods; not mildly, but precipitously. For example, between
1971 and 1989 a standard 17-cubic foot refrigerator declined in price by a third (in
real dollars) while becoming 27% more energy efficient and sporting more
features, such as ice-making. In 1988 Radio Shack listed a cellular phone for
$1,500. Ten years later they list a better one for $200.
Most of the increase in value weve seen in products comes from the power of the
chip. But in the network economy, shrinking chip meets exploding net to create
wealth. Just as we leveraged compounded learning in creating the microprocessor
revolution, we are leveraging the same amplifying loops in creating the global
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-4.html (2 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:29 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 4: Follow The Free

communications revolution. We can now harness the virtues of networked
communications to directly and indirectly create better versions of networked
communications. When quality feeds on itself in such a manner, we witness
discontinuous change: in this case, a new economy.
Almost from their birth in 1971, microprocessors experienced steep inverted
pricing. The chips pricing plunge is called Moores Law, after Gordon Moore, the
Intel engineer who first observed the amazing, steady increase in computer power
per dollar. Moores Law states that computer chips are halving in price, or
doubling in power every 18 months. Now, telecommunications is about to
experience the kind of plunge that microprocessor chips have takenbut even more
drastically. The nets curve is called Gilders Law, for George Gilder, a radical
technotheorist, who forecasts that for the foreseeable future (the next 10 years),
the total bandwidth of communication systems will triple every 12 months.
The conjunction of escalating communication power with shrinking size of jelly
bean nodes at collapsing prices leads Gilder to speak of bandwidth becoming free.
What he means is that the price per bit transmitted drops down toward the free.
What he does not mean is that telecom bills drop to zero. Telecom payments are
likely to remain steady per month in real dollars as we consume more bits, just as
those bits sink in cost.
The cost per bit sinks so low, however, that the per unit cost to the consumer
closes in on the free. The cost follows what is called an asymptotic curve. In an
asymptotic curve the price point forever nears zero without ever reaching it. It is
like Zenos tortoise: with each step forward, the tortoise gets halfway closer to the
limit but never actually crosses it. The trajectory of an asymptotic curve is similar.
It so closely parallels the bottom limit of free that it behaves as if it is free.
Because prices move inexorably toward the free, the best move in the
network economy is to anticipate this cheapness.
So reliable is the arrival of cheapness in the new economy that a person can make
a fortune anticipating it. One of the classic tales of counting on the cheap comes
from the information eras Big Bangwhen the semiconductor transistor was born.
In the early 1960s Robert Noyce and his partner Jerry Sandersfounders of
Fairchild Semiconductorwere selling an early transistor, called the 1211, to the
military. Each transistor cost Noyce $100 to make. Fairchild wanted to sell the
transistor to RCA for use in their UHF tuner. At the time RCA was using fancy
vacuum tubes, which cost only $1.05 each. Noyce and Sanders put their faith in
the inverted pricing of the learning curve. They knew that as the volume of
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-4.html (3 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:29 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 4: Follow The Free

production increased, the cost of the transistor would go down, even a
hundredfold. But to make their first commercial sale they need to get the price
down immediately, with zero volume. So they boldly anticipated the cheap by
cutting the price of the 1211 to $1.05, right from the start, before they knew how
to do it. "We were going to make the chips in a factory we hadnt built, using a
process we hadnt yet developed, but the bottom line: We were out there the next
week quoting $1.05," Sanders later recalled. "We were selling into the future."
And they succeeded. By anticipating the cheap, they made their goal of $1.05,
took 90% of the UHF market share, and then within two years cut the price of the
1211 to 50 cents, and still made a profit.
In the network economy, chips and bandwidth are not the only things headed
toward the asymptotic free. Calculation is too. The cost of computationas
measured by the millions of calculations per second per dollaris headed toward the
free. Transaction costs also dive toward the free. Information itselfheadlines and
stock quotesplunges toward the free, too. Real-time stock quotes, for instance,
were once high-priced insider information. Lately they have become so widely
available that they must conform to a stock quote "spec" so that generic web
browsers can read them uniformly.
Indeed, all items that can be copied, both tangible and intangible, adhere to
the law of inverted pricing and become cheaper as they improve.
While it is true that automobiles will never be free, the cost per mile of driving
will dip toward the free. It is the function (moving the body) per dollar that
continues to drop. This distinction is important. Because while the function costs
head toward zero, the expenditure share can remain steady, or even balloon. With
cheaper costs we travel more, way more. With cheaper computation we consume
billions of more calculations. Yet for vendors to make a profit, they must
anticipate this cheapening per unit.

Gilder's Law says that the cost
per communication bit will begin
to sink farther than it has fallen
previously. Eventually the cost of
a telephone call, or of a bit
transmitted, will be "free."

Lets take communications. All-you-can-use plain old telephone service with no
frills will soon be essentially free. But as customers use more of this nearly free
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-4.html (4 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:29 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 4: Follow The Free

service, they quickly add options and deluxe services. First, every room gets a
phone line. Then your car gets a line, or two. Then you get a mobile line. Then
everyone in the family gets a mobile. Then answering service. Then call
forwarding, call waiting, caller ID. Then fax and modem lines. Then all appliances
and objects get a line. Then continuous open lines to cash registers, and credit card
readers. Then security lines. Then ISDN and ADSL lines. Then caller ID
blocking. Then junk call blocking. Then vanity phone numbers. Then portable
personal numbers. Then voice mail sorting.
The outer boundaries of telephony keep expanding. When the phone was first
invented, there was much confusion about what in the world it was good for
commercially. Some thought it would be used to transmit music into homes. But
even the most ambitious booster didnt envision having five phones lines in their
home (as I do). The desire to have a phone in a car and to have caller ID was
manufactured, indirectly, by the technology itself.
Technology creates an opportunity for a demand, and then fills it.
This is a very different notion of supply and demand from the one diagrammed in
the introductory chapters of any economics textbook. The traditional supply and
demand curve conveys a simple lesson: As a resource is consumed, it becomes
more expensive to produce. For instance, as gold is mined, the easy (cheap)
nuggets are found first; but to mine little particles of gold out of 25 tons of rock
requires a higher gold price to make the effort worthwhile. Therefore, the supply
curve slopes up, with the potential supply increasing as the price goes up. In
contrast, the traditional understanding of demand says that demand slacks off the
more supply there is. If you have lobster on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday,
youll be less interested in having it again and more inclined to pay less for lobster
on Thursday. Therefore, the demand curve slopes down, with prices dropping as a
product becomes abundant.

In textbook economics the supply
of products would only increase if
their price went up; in the new
economics the supply increases as
price goes down.

In the new order, as the law of plentitude kicks in and the nearly free take over,
both of these curves are turned upside down. Paul Krugman, an economist at MIT,
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-4.html (5 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:29 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 4: Follow The Free

says that you can reduce the entire idea of the network economy down to the
observation that "in the Network Economy, supply curves slope down instead of
up and demand curves slope up instead of down." The more a resource is used, the
more demand there is for it. A similar inversion happens on the supply side.
Because of compounded learning, the more we create something, the easier it
becomes to create more of it. The classic textbook graph is inverted.
As the supply curve rockets upward exponentially and the demand curve plunges
further, the new Supply/Demand Flip suggests the two curves will cross each
other at lower and lower price points. We see this already as the prices of goods
and services keep heading toward the free. But hidden between the curves is a
momentous surprise. Supply and demand are no longer driven by resource scarcity
and human desire. Now both are driven by one, single exploding force:
technology.
The accelerating expansion of knowledge and technology simultaneously
pushes up the demand curve while pushing down the supply curve. One very
potent force shifts both sides.
The effectiveness of technology in driving down prices is easy to appreciate. As
stated at the beginning of this chapter, price drops have been going on for a while,
although now it is accelerating. We know the outcome of this trend: lower prices
everywhere. Consumers rejoice. But how are companies to make a profit in a
world of constantly sinking prices? In the supply. Technology and knowledge are
driving up demand faster than it is driving down prices. And demand, unlike
prices, has no asymptote to limit it. The extent of human needs and desires is
limited only by human imagination, which means, in practical terms, there is no
limit.

Anything that can be replicated
will have a price that will tend
toward zero, or free. While the
cost may never reach free, it
approaches the free in a curve
called an asymptote.

The quicker the price of transportation drops, the more quality and services and
innovation are embedded into cars, planes, and trains, lifting the quality of the
"wants" they satisfy.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-4.html (6 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:29 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 4: Follow The Free

Over time, any product is on a one-way trip over the cliff of inverted pricing and
down the curve toward the free. As the network economy catches up to all
manufactured itemsfrom cell phones to sofasthey will all slide down this slope of
decreasing price more rapidly than ever.
The task, then, is to create new things to send down the slidein short, to
invent items and services faster than they are commoditized.
This is easier to do in a network-based economy because the crisscrossing of
ideas, the hyperlinking of relationships, the agility of alliances, and the nimble
quickness with which new nodes are created all support the constant generation of
new goods and services.
We will create artifacts and services rapidly, as if they were short-lived bubbles.
Since we cant hold back a bubbles drift toward popping, we can only learn to
make more bubbles, faster.
If goods and services become more valuable as they become more plentiful,
and if they become cheaper as they become valuable, then the natural
extension of this logic says that the most valuable things of all should be those
that are ubiquitous and free.
Ubiquity drives increasing returns in the network economy. The question
becomes, What is the most cost-effective way to achieve ubiquity? And the
answer is: give things away. Make them free.
Indeed, we see many innovative companies in the new economy following the
free. Microsoft gives away its Internet Explorer web browser. Netscape also gives
away its browser, as well as its valuable source code. Qualcomm, which produces
Eudora, the popular email program, is given away as freeware in order to sell
upgraded versions. Thomson, the $8 billion-a-year publisher, is giving away its
precious high-priced financial data to investors on the web. Some one million
copies of McAfees antivirus software are distributed free each month. And, of
course, Sun passed Java out gratis, sending its stock up and launching a miniindustry of Java application developers.
Can you imagine a young executive in the 1940s telling the board that his latest
idea is to give away the first 40 million copies of his only product? (Fifty years
later thats what Netscape did.) He would not have lasted a New York minute.
But now, giving away a product is a tested, level-headed strategy that banks on the
networks new rules. Because compounding network knowledge inverts prices, the
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-4.html (7 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:29 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 4: Follow The Free

marginal cost of an additional copy (intangible or tangible) is near zero. It cost
Netscape $30 million to ship the first copy of Navigator out the door, but it cost
them only $1 to ship the second one. Yet because each additional copy of
Navigator sold increases the value of all the previous copies, and because the
more value the copies accrue, the more desirable they become, it makes a weird
kind of economic sense to give them away at first. Once the products worth and
indispensability is established, the company sells auxiliary services or upgrades,
continuing its generosity to involve more customers in a virtuous circle.
One might argue that this frightening dynamic works only with software, since the
marginal cost of an additional copy is already near zero (now that software can be
distributed online). But "following the free" is a universal law. Hardware, when
networked, also follows this mandate. Cellular phones are given away in order to
sell cell phone services. We can expect DirecTV dishes to be given away for the
same reasons. This principle applies to any object whose diminishing cost of
replication is exceeded by the advantages of being plugged in.
As crackpot as it sounds, in the distant future nearly everything we make will (at
least for a short while) be given away freerefrigerators, skis, laser projectors,
clothes, you name it. This will only make sense when these items are pumped full
of chips and network nodes, and thus capable of delivering network value.
The natural question is how companies are to survive in a world of such
generosity? Three points will help.
First, think of "free" as a design goal for pricing. There is a drive toward the
freethe asymptotic freethat, even if not reached, makes the system behave as if it
has been reached. A very cheap rate can have an effect equivalent to being
outright free.
Second, pricing a core product as free positions other services to be expensive.
Thus, Sun gives Java away to help sell servers, and Netscape hands out consumer
browsers to help sell commercial server software.
Third, and most important, following the free is a way to rehearse a services or a
goods eventual fall to free. You structure your business as if the thing that you are
creating is free in anticipation of where its price is going. Thus, while Sega game
consoles are not free to consumers, they are sold as loss leaders to accelerate their
journey toward their eventual destinyto be given away in a network economy.
Another way to view this effect is in terms of attention:

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-4.html (8 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:29 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 4: Follow The Free

The only factor becoming scarce in a world of abundance is human attention.
As Nobel-winning economist Herbert Simon puts it: "What information consumes
is rather obvious: It consumes the attention of its recipients. Hence a wealth of
information creates a poverty of attention." Each human has an absolute limit of
24 hours per day to provide attention to the millions of innovations and
opportunities thrown up by the economy. Giving stuff away captures human
attention, or mind share, which then leads to market share.
Following the free also works in the other direction. If one way to increase
product value is to make products free, then many things now free may contain
potential value not yet perceived. We can anticipate the eruption of new wealth on
the frontier by tracking down the free.
In the webs early days, the first indexes to this uncharted territory were written by
students and given away. The indexes helped people focus their attention on a few
sites out of the thousands available. Webmasters, hoping to draw attention to their
sites, aided the indexers efforts. Because they were free, indexes became
ubiquitous. Their ubiquity quickly made them valuable (and their stockholders
rich) and enabled many other web services to flourish.
What is free now that may later lead to extreme value? Where today is generosity
preceding wealth? A short list of online candidates would be digesters, guides,
catalogers, FAQs, remote live cameras, front page web splashes, and numerous
bots. Free for now, each of these will someday have profitable companies built
around them selling auxiliary services. Digesting, guiding and cataloging are not
fringe functions, either. In the industrial age, a digest, Readers Digest, was the
worlds most widely read magazine; a guide, TV Guide, was more profitable than
the three major networks it guided viewers to; and a catalog of answers, the
Encyclopaedia Britannica, began as a compendium of articles written by
amateurssomething like online FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions).
But the migration from ad hoc use to commercialization cannot be rushed. To
reach ubiquity you need to pass through sharing.
Increasingly we see technologies pass through a protocommercial stage. Huge
numbers of people, exerting millions of hours of collective effort, will jointly craft
hundreds of thousands of creations, but without the exchange of money. An entire
society following the free! Author Lewis Hyde long ago called this arrangement a
gift economy. The central task in a gift economy is to keep the gifts moving. By
social debt, barter, and pure charity, gifts circulate and generate happiness and
wealth.
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-4.html (9 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:29 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 4: Follow The Free

The early internet and the early web sported amazingly robust gift economies.
Text and expertise (FAQs, for example) and services (page designs) were
swapped, shared generously, or donated outright. Information was bartered,
content was given away, code was exchanged. For a long while the gift economy
was the only way to acquire things online. In the first 1,000 days of the webs life,
several hundred thousand webmasters created over 450,000 web sites, thousands
of virtual communities, and 150 million pages of intellectual property, primarily
for free. And these protocommercial sites were visited by 30 million people
around the world, with 50% of them visiting daily, staying for an average of 10
minutes per day. This is a raging success by almost any measure youd want to use.
No other emerging media in the past experienced such glory so early in its growth.
Talk of generosity, of information that wants to be free, and of virtual
communities is often dismissed by businesspeople as youthful new age idealism.
It may be idealistic but it is also the only sane way to launch a commercial
economy in the emerging space. "The webs lack of an obvious business model
right now is actually its main event," says Stewart Brand, of the Global Business
Network.
When a sector of the new economy passes through the protocommercial phase, it
is the opposite of the "tragedy of the commons." The tragedy of the commons was
that nobody took responsibility for maintaining the communal pastures that were
the livelihood for the entire community. In the follow-the-free economy that
seems to precede commercial activity on the net, everyone keeps the commons up
because nobody is able to make a living from it on their own. Sophisticated
software, as good as anything you can purchase, is written, debugged, supported,
and revised for free in this "triumph of the commons."
The most popular software used to run web sites is called Apache. It is not sold by
Netscape, or Microsoft, or anyone. Apache, which has 47% of the server market
(Microsoft has 22% and Netscape 10%), was written (and is maintained) by a
network of volunteers. It is given away free. Apache, which is used by the
developers of such commercial sites as McDonalds, keeps getting better because
the triumph of the commons rewards a completely open product: Anyone has
access to Apaches software source code and can improve it. "If you give everyone
source code, everyone becomes your engineer," says John Gage, chief scientist at
Sun Microsystems.
The most popular operating system for web server workstations is not sold by
anyone. It is a product called Linux, a Unix-compatible program that was
originally written by Linus Torvalds, and given away for free. In the manner of

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-4.html (10 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:29 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 4: Follow The Free

building medieval cathedrals, hundreds of software engineers volunteer their time
and expertise to refine and improve Linux, and to keep it free. Beside Apache and
Linux, there are many other free software suites, such as Perl and X-Windows,
maintained by a network of programmers. The engineers dont get paid in money;
rather they get better tools than they can buy, tools that can be easily tweaked by
them for maximum performance, tools superior to what they can make alone, and
tools that increase in network value, since they are given away.
Tens of thousands of software programs written for almost every imaginable use
are available on the net for free. Called shareware, the model is simple. Download
whatever software you want for free, try it out, and if you like it, send some
money to the author. Dozens of entrepreneurs have made their million dollars
selling goods by this protocommercial method. More and more, the triumph of the
commons overrides orthodox business models.
As Stewart Brand says, the main event of the emerging World Wide Web is its
current absence of a business model in the midst of astounding abundance. The
gift economy is one way players in the net rehearse for a life of following the free
and anticipating the cheap. This is also a way for entirely new business models to
shake out. Furthermore the protocommercial stage is a way for innovation to fastforward into hyperdrive. Temporarily unhinged from the constraints of having to
make a profit by next quarter, the greater network can explore a universe of neverbefore-tried ideas. Some ideas will even survive the transplantation to a working
business.
Its a rare (and foolish) software outfit these days that does not introduce its wares
into the free economy as a beta version in some fashion. Fifty years ago the notion
of releasing a product unfinishedwith the intention that the users would help
complete itwould have been considered either cowardly, cheap, or inept. But in
the new regime, this precommercial stage is brave, prudent, and vital.
Releasing incomplete "buggy" products is not cost-cutting desperation; it is
the shrewdest way to complete a product when your customers are smarter
than you are.
The protocommercial state and the triumph of the commons is in ascendance. It is
no coincidence that increasing numbers of internet companies take themselves
public before they are profitable. Investors are purchasing shares in a firm with
protocommercial value. The old guard reads this as a signal of greed, speculation,
and hype. But it also signals that many of the components of the gift
economyattention, community, standards, and shared intelligencehave to be in
place before cold-cash commercialization can kick in. The gift economy is a
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-4.html (11 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:29 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 4: Follow The Free

rehearsal for the radical dynamics of the network economy.

Strategies
What can you give away? This is the most powerful question in this book. You
can approach this question in two ways: What is the closest you can come to
making something free, without actually pricing it at zero? Or, in a true gesture of
enlightened generosity, you can figure out how to part with something very
valuable for no monetary return at all. If either strategy is pursued with
intelligence, the result will be the same. The network will magnify the value of the
gift. But giving something away is not usually easy. It must be the right gift, given
in the proper context. To figure out what to give away, consider these questions:
Is the freebie more than a silly premium, like the toy in a cereal box? There
is no power in the gift unless it is crucial to your business.
● What virtuous circle will this freebie circulate in? Is it the loop you most
need to amplify?
● In the long run, the unbounded support of a customer is more valuable than
a fixed amount of their money. How will you eventually capture the
support of customers if there is initially no flow of money?
●

Every organization harbors at least one creationor potential creationthat can be
liberated into "freedom." This is often an idea with problems, particularly with its
price: Should it be $69.50 per minute or $6.50 per box? The answer sometimes is:
It should be free. Even if the idea is never actualized, my experience is that the
very act of contemplating the free will inevitably illuminate all kinds of beneficial
attributes that were never visible before. "Free" has long been a taboo price point.
Perhaps because it has been forbidden, many low-hanging fruit are waiting to be
plucked by giving the free serious consideration.
Act as if your product or service is free. Magazine publishers do this. The cover
price on a magazine barely covers the cost of printing it, so publishers act as if
they were giving it away (and some actually do). They make their money instead
on advertising. Says pundit Esther Dyson, "The creator who immediately writes
off the costs of developing contentas if it were valuelessis always going to win
over the creator who cant figure out how to cover those costs." Memberships in
serious discounters such as Cendant are also "as if free." Cendant "gives away" the
merchandise very near the cost of manufacturing, as if the stuff were free. They
make the bulk of their profits not from selling goods to its memberswho get
fantastic retail pricesbut from selling $40 per year membership fees.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-4.html (12 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:29 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 4: Follow The Free

Invest in the first copy. That is the only one that will hurt. The second copy and
all thereafter will head toward the free, but the first will become increasingly more
expensive and capital intensive. Gordon Moore, of Moores Law fame, posed a
second law: that the costs of inventing chips (that are halving in cost every 18
months) is doubling every three to four years. The up-front investment for
research, design, and process invention for all complex endeavors are
commanding a larger share of the budget, while the capital costs of subsequent
copies diminishes.
Anticipate the cheap. What would you do if your current offerings cost only one
third what they cost today? They will someday soon, so create models that
recognize this trend.
Turn off the meter, charge for joining. Flat or monthly fixed pricing is one way
of pricing "as if free." Fees are paid, but there is no meter running. This tactic can
be abused by the company (a la cable TV) or can be abused by the consumer (a la
AOL). A flat fee is one type of subscription. Subscriptions are well-honed tools
used by the soft world of magazines and theater, among others. Could
subscriptions really apply to old order physical products, like say, food? The idea
of subscribing to food is not so outlandish. Forty years ago subscriptions to milk
were quite common. There were also subscriptions to bread and beer and other
staples. Subscriptions tend to emphasize and charge for intangible values:
regularity, reliability, first to be served, and authenticity, and work well in the
arena of "as if free."
The ancillary market is the market. The software is free, but the manual is
$10,000. Thats no joke. Cygnus Solutions, based in Sunnyvale, California, rakes
in $20 million per year in revenues selling support for free Unix-like software.
Apache is free but you can buy support and upgrades from C2Net. Although
Novell, the network provider, does sell network software, thats not what they are
really selling, says Esther Dyson: "What Novell Inc. really is selling is its certified
NetWare engineers, instructors, and administrators, and the next release of
NetWare." One educational software exec admitted that his companys help line
was actually an important profit center. Their main market was the ancillary
products they sold for their flagship software, which they had a chance to do while
helping customers.
Pinpoint where value is being given out for free now, and then follow up. The
next netscape, the next yahoo, the next microsoft is already up and running, and
they are giving their stuff away for free. Find them, and hitch your wagon to their
star. Look for the following tricks: charges only for ancillaries, as-if-free behavior,
memberships, and outright generosity. If they are using the free to play off

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-4.html (13 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:29 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 4: Follow The Free

network effects, they are the real mccoys.
continue...

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-4.html (14 of 14) [12/10/2006 8:47:29 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
Chapter 5: FEED THE WEB FIRST
Members Prosper as the Net Prospers
The distinguishing characteristic of networks is that they contain no clear center
and no clear outside boundaries. Within a network everything is potentially
equidistant from everything else.
Therefore the first thing the network economy reforms is our identity.
The vital distinction between the self (us) and the nonself (them)once exemplified
by the fierce loyalty of the organization man in the industrial erabecomes less
meaningful in a network economy. The only "inside" now is whether you are on
the network or off.
Individual allegiance moves away from firms and toward networks and
network platforms.
Are you Windows or are you Mac?
This shift to network loyalty makes the potential of any network we might want to
join a key issue. Is the network waxing or waning? Is the upside potential meager
or tremendous? Is the network open or closed?
When given the choice between closed or open systems, consumers show a fierce
enthusiasm for open architectures. They choose the open again and again because
an open system has more potential upside than a closed one. There are more
sources from which to recruit members and more nodes with which to intersect.
Identifying the preferred network to do business in is now a major chore for firms.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (1 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

Because more and more of a firms future lies in its networks, firms must evaluate
a networks relative open- and closedness, its circulation, its ability to adapt.
Consultant John Hagel says, "A web limits risk. It allows companies to make
irreversible investments in the face of technological uncertainty. Companies in a
web enjoy expanding sourcing and distribution options, while their fixed
investment and skill requirements fall."
As the destiny of firm and web intertwine, the health of the matrix becomes
paramount.
Maximizing the value of the net itself soon becomes the number one strategy for a
firm. For instance, game companies will devote as much energy to promoting the
platformthe tangle of users, game developers, and hardware manufacturersas they
do to their games. For unless their web thrives, they die. This represents a
momentous changea complete shift in orientation. Formerly, employees of a firm
focused their attention on two loci: the firm itself and the marketplace.

The prosperity of a firm is
directly linked to the prosperity of
its network. As the platform or
standard it operates on flourishes,
so does the firm.

Now there is a third horizon to consider: the network. The network consists of
subcontractors, vendors and competitors, emerging standards for exchanges, the
technical infrastructure of commerce, and the web of consumers and clients.
Commerce networks can be thought of as ecologies. Economist Brian Arthur
states: "Players compete not by locking in a product on their own but by building
websloose alliances of companies organized around a mini-ecologythat amplify
positive feedbacks to the base technology."
During certain phases of growth, feeding the network is as important as feeding
the firm. Some firms that already have large market shares (such as Intel, which
owns 80% of the PC processor market) channel money, through minority
investments, to younger firms whose success will strengthen the market for their
products, directly or indirectly. They feed the web because it is good business.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (2 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

In the network economy a firms primary focus shifts from maximizing the
firms value to maximizing the networks value.
Not every network demands the same investment. The music CD standard and
web of suppliers is well entrenched by now. The new DVD video standard is not.
A publishing company issuing music on a CD has to devote less energy to making
sure the CD platform flourishes than does a movie company issuing their film on a
DVD. The film company must devote substantial resources to ensuring the spread
and survival of this emerging platform. Theyll work with the hardware
manufacturers, maybe share costs of advertising by seeding the platform logo in
their own ads, send reps to technical committees, and cooperate with other film
studios in getting the new format accepted. The music company doesnt need to
make as heavy an investment with CDs. But they do need to make investments
into new networks if they try to deliver music onlinebecause online delivery is still
in its embryonic phase.
Every network technology follows a natural life cycle, roughly broken into three
stages:
Prestandard
● Fluid
● Embedded
●

A firms strategy will depend on what phase a network is in.
The prestandard phase is the most exciting. This period is marked by tremendous
innovation, high hopes, and grand ambition. "Aha!" ideas flow readily. Since there
are no experts, everyone can compete, and it seems as if everyone does. Easy
entry into the field draws myriad players. For instance, when telephone networks
began, there were few standards and many contenders. In 1899, there were 2,000
local telephone firms in the American telephone network, many of them running
with their own standards of transmission. In a similar vein, in the 1890s,
electricity came in a variety of voltages and frequencies. Each local power plant
chose one of many competing standards for electrical power. Transportation
networks, ditto. As late in the railroad era as 1880, thousands of railway
companies did not share a universal gauge.
Two examples of networks in the prestandard stage today are online video and emoney. You have the choice of many competing protocols with equal prospects.
With both domains, the uncertainty level is high, but the consequences of being
wrong are minimal. Little is locked in, so its easy to change.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (3 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

Networks in the fluid phase have a different dynamic. The plethora of choices in
the prestandard phase gradually reduces to two or three. Allegiances are mobile,
and drift over time. During this period, networks demand the strongest
commitment to their survival. Participants have to feed the web of their choice
first, and the narrowing of choices allows substantial investment to spur rapid
growth. The effects of plentitude and increasing returns kick inmore breeds more.
Feeding the web on any of several standards still produces gains for all
participants. Yet it is inevitable that only one standard will ultimately prevail
while the other ones fail. The uncertainty level is nearly as high as during the
prestandard phase, but the risks for being wrong are greater. Anyone who
remembers the demise of 8-track audiotapes will appreciate the perils of this
painful stage. Today such networks as digital photographs and desktop operating
systems are in this fluid phase: Several well-established standards vie for ultimate
dominance. Choose wisely!
The final stage in the life cycle of networks is the embedded phase, where one
standard is so widely accepted that it becomes embedded in the fabric of the
technology and is thereafter nearly impossible to dislodgeat least as long as the
network exists. Regular 110-volt AC power is well embedded at this point
(although, as the power grid becomes global, there could be some surprises).
ASCII text is likewise deeply embeddedat least for phonetic languages. Some of
the conventions of voice dial tone are so ubiquitous worldwide as to be permanent.
In any phase of innovationprestandard, fluid, or embeddedstandards are valuable
because they hasten innovation. Agreements are constraints on uncertainty. The
constraints of a standard solidify one pathway out of many, allowing further
innovation and evolution to accelerate along that stable route. So central is the
need to cultivate certainty that organizations must make the common standard
their first allegiance. As standards are established, growth takes off.
For maximum prosperity, feed the web first.
Arriving at standards is often easier said than done. Standard-making is a
torturous, bickering process every time. And the end result is universally
condemnedsince it is the child of compromise. But for a standard to be effective,
its adoption must be voluntary. There must be room to dissent by pursuing
alternative standards at any time.
Standards play an increasingly vital role in the new economy. In the industrial age,
relatively few products demanded standards. You didnt need a consensual network
to make a chair and table. If you obeyed some basic ergonomic conventionsmake
table height 30 inchesyou were on your way. Those industrial products that
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (4 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

operated in networkssuch as the electrical or transportation networksdemanded
sophisticated standard-making. Anything plugged into the electrical grid had to be
standard. Automobiles manufactured by separate factories shared standards on
such things as axle width, fuel mixtures, placement of turn signals, not to mention
the many standards of road construction and signage.
All information and communication products and services demand extensive
consensus. Participants at both ends of any conversation have to understand each
others language. Multiply one conversation by a billion, factor in a thousand
different media choices, and then start to count three-way, four-way, n-way
conversations, and the amount of consensus-setting skyrockets.
In the network economy, ever-less energy is needed to complete a single
transaction, but ever-more effort is needed to agree on what pattern the
transaction should follow.
Thus "feeding the web first" increases in necessity. Businesses can expect to
devote great intellectual capital on formulating, negotiating, deciding, forecasting,
and adhering to emerging standards. The question "Which platform do we back?"
will not be confined to PCs. It will be asked in regard to calendars, cars,
accounting principles, and even currencies.
As more of the economy migrates to intangibles, more of the economy will
require standards.
But consumers will groan under the load of decisions. There is a yin-yang tradeoff
in the new economy. The yin, or positive side, is that consumers keep most of the
gains in productivity that are earned by technology. Competition is so severe, and
transactions so "friction-free," that most of each cycles betterment goes not to
corporate profits but to consumers in the form of cheaper prices and higher quality.
The yang, or downside, is that consumers have a never-ending onslaught of
decisions to make about what to buy, what standard to join, when to upgrade or
switch, and whether backward compatibility is more important than superior
performance. The fatigue of sorting out options and allegiances, or recovering
from them, is underappreciated at the moment, but will mount. The joy of the new
economy is that the next version is almost free; the bane is that no one wants the
hassle of upgrading to it, even if you pay them to do it.
The fatigue will only worsen. The net is a possibility factory, churning out novel
opportunities by the screenful. Unharnessed, this explosion can drown the
unprepared. Standardizing choices helps tame the debilitating abundance of
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (5 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

competing possibilities. This is why the most popular sites on the web today are
meta-sites that sort the abundance and point you to the best.
Since the network economy is so new, we as a society have paid little attention to
how standards are created and how they grow. But we should notice, because once
implemented, a successful standard tends to remain forever. And standards
themselves shape behavior.
I was associated with the genesis of the Well, one of the first public computer
conferencing systems to be plugged into the internet. The Well was conceived and
built by others, but as director of the poor nonprofit that owned it, and as one of
the first participants to join when it opened, I was involved in creating its policies.
It became clear almost from day one that the technical specifications of the
software that the Well used directly shaped the kind of community growing within
it. Other models of conferencing software used elsewhere produced different kinds
of communities. The Wells softwareas implemented by the Wellencouraged linear
conversations and community memory; it discouraged anonymity, but encouraged
responsibility for words and topics; it permitted limited forms of dissent and
retraction, and it allowed users to invent their own tools. It did all this primarily by
means of Unix codeby the software standards set up within the Wellrather than by
posted rules. The community it shaped was distinctive and long-lived. In fact the
community, with all its quirks, is still going, even though the software that runs it
has evolved into a web browser interface. The behavior-changing standards
remain. The power to mold a community by code rather than regulation was
eventually articulated by Well users into a serviceable maxim: Peace through
tools, not rules.
The internet and the web also contain toolish standards that invisibly shape our
behavior. We have ideas about ownership, about accessibility, about privacy, and
about identity that are all shaped by the code of HTML and TCP/IP, among
others. Currently only a small portion of our lives flow through these webs, but as
cyberspace subsumes televisionspace and phonespace and much of retailspace, the
influence of standards upon social behavior will grow.
Eventually technical standards will become as important as laws.
Laws are codified social standards; but in the future, codified technical standards
will be just as important as laws. Harvard Law professor Lawrence Lessig says,
"Law is becoming irrelevant. The real locus of regulation is going to be
(computer) code." As networks mature, and make the transition from ad hoc
prestandard free-for-alls to fluid hot spots of innovation, and then into full-fledged
systems with deeply embedded standards, standards increasingly ossify into

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (6 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

something like laws.
Standards also harden with age. They become resistant to change and they
descend into hardware. Their code gets wired into the backs of chips, and as the
chips spread, the standard infiltrates ever more deeply.
An elaborate process of legal overview monitors and analyzes our lawmaking. So
far we have little of the sort for our standard-making, although these agencies,
such as the ITU (International Telecom Union) will soon be as influential as
courts. Standards are not just about technology. They are about soft and fuzzy
things such as options and relationships and trust. They are social instruments.
They create social territory.
A network is like a country in that it is a web of relationships regulated by
standards. In a country citizens pay taxes and adhere to laws for the benefit of all.
In a network, netizens feed the web first for the benefit of all. The network
economy is a meta-country. Its web of relationships differ from those of a country
in three ways:
No geographical or temporal boundaries existrelations flow ceaselessly 24
by 7 by 365.
● Relations in the network economy are more tightly coupled, more intense,
more persistent, more diverse, and more intimate in many ways than most
of those in a country.
● Multiple overlapping networks exist, with multiple overlapping
allegiances.
●

These hyperconnections can either strengthen or weaken traditional relationships.
The extremely personal, highly trust-bound relations in a family stand to be
strengthened, while the diffuse and nearly contractual relations in a nation-state
are liable to weaken. Yet, as Peter Drucker points out, "The nation-state is not
going to wither away. It may remain the most powerful political organ around for
a long time to come, but it will no longer be the indispensable one." In its stead
well rely on nongovernmental agencies such as the Red Cross, ACLU, HMOs,
insurance giants, the net and the web, and UN-like entities. These parapolitical
organizations will supplement the embedded nation-state. They will be the
indispensable networks we care about.
In both country and network, the surest route to raising ones own prosperity is
raising the systems prosperity. The one clear effect of the industrial age is that the
prosperity individuals achieve is more closely related to their nations prosperity
than to their own efforts. Lester Thurow, an MIT economist, has pointed out that
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (7 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

enabling the lowest paid to earn more is the best way to raise wages for the
highest paidthe theory being that a rising tide lifts all boats. The network economy
will only amplify this.
To raise your product, lift the networks it ties into. To raise your company, lift the
standards it supports. To raise your country, increase the connections (in quality
and quantity) that allow others to prosper.
To prosper, feed the web first.
The web is underfed right now. It is small compared to the rest of the world. In
1998 the internet boasted of an estimated 120 million people with access. But that
means only 2% of human adults have a direct line to the online network.
But the net is growing exponentially fast. If current rates continue, by early in the
new century, 1 billion people will have internet access, 75% of adults will access
to some kind of phone, and, according to Nicholas Negroponte, there will be 10
billion electronic objects connected together online. Every year the net engulfs
more of the world.
The net is moving irreversibly to include everything of the world.
As the net takes over, many observers have noted the gradual displacement in our
economy of materials by information. Automobiles weigh less than they once did
and yet perform better. Industrial materials have been replaced by nearly
weightless high-tech know-how in the form of plastics and composite fiber
materials. Stationary objects are gaining information and losing mass, too.
Because of improved materials, high-tech construction methods, and smarter
office equipment, new buildings today weigh less than comparable ones from the
1950s. So it isnt only your radio that is shrinking, the entire economy is losing
weight too.

Even industrial objects like
atuomobiles follow new rules. An
automobile's average weight is
dropping and will continue to
drop as information replaces its
mass.

Even when mass is conserved, information increases. An average piece of steel
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (8 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

manufactured in 1998 was vastly different from an average piece of steel made in
1950. Both pieces weighed approximately the same, but the one made recently is
far superior in performance because of the amount of design, research, and
knowledge that went into its creation. Its superior value is not due to extra atoms,
but to extra information.
The wholesale migration from mass to bits began with the arrival of computer
chips. This subtle disembodiment was first viewed as a unique dynamic of the
high-tech corridors of Silicon Valley. Software was so strangepart body, part
spiritthat nobody was surprised when the computer industry itself behaved
strangely. The principles of the net, such as increasing returns, were seen as
special cases, anomalies within the larger "real" economy of steel, oil,
automobiles, and farms. What did such weirdness have to do with, say, making
cars, or selling lettuce? At first, nothing. But by now every industry (shoe retail,
glass manufacturing, hamburgers) has an information component, and that
component is increasing. There is not a single company of consequence that does
not use computers and communication technology. All U.S. companies (low as
well as high-tech) together spent $212 billion on information technology in 1996.
Often, the digital component of the firm, say the IT or MIS department, or the
wizards running the technology, will be the first to feel the influence of the new
rules and network dynamics. Consultants Larry Downes and Chunka Mui say,
"Even though the primary technology of many industries may not be in
transition ... every industry is going through a revolution in its information
technology." As more of a company "goes online" nerd ideas begin to seep into
the whole organization, reshaping the firms understanding of what it is doing.
Over time, more and more employees will chase the opportunities that intensive
information and communication networks bring.
New network technology and globalization accelerates the disembodiment of
goods and services. The new dynamics of information will gradually supersede
the old dynamics of industrialization until network behavior becomes the entire
economy.
Bit by bit, the logic of the network will overtake every atom we deal with.
The logic of the network will spread from its base in silicon chips, to infiltrate
steel, plywood, chemical dyes, and potato chips. All manufacturing, whether
seeded with silicon wafers or not, will respond to network principles.
Consider oilthe quintessential atom-based resource. The classical theory of
diminishing returns was practically invented to explain the oil industry. Easy oil is
extracted cheaply at first; then at a certain point the expense of extraction doesnt
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (9 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

justify the cost unless the price goes up. But by now the oil industry is so invaded
by chip technology that it is beginning to obey the laws of the new economy.
Sophisticated 3D viewing software allows geologists to map oil-yielding layers to
within a few meters; computer-guided flexible drills can burrow sideways with
precision, reaching small pockets of oil. Superior pumps extract more oil with less
energy and maintenance. Diminishing returns are halted. The oil flows steadily at
steady prices, as the oil industry slides into the new economy.
And what could be more industrial-age than automobiles? Yet, chips and networks
can take the industrial age out of cars, too. Most of the energy a car consumes is
used to move the car itself, not the passenger. So if the cars body and engine can
be diminished in size, less power is needed to move the car, meaning the engine
can be made yet smaller. A smaller engine requires a yet smaller engine, and so on
down the slide of compounded value that microprocessors followed. The cars
body can be reduced substantially using smart materialsstuff that requires
increasing knowledge to invent and makewhich in turn means a smaller, more
efficient engine can power it.
Detroit and Japan have designed cars that weigh only 500 kilograms. Built out of
ultra-lightweight composite fiber material, these prototypes are powered by hightech hybrid engine motors. They reduce the mass of radiator, axle, and driveshaft
by substituting networked chips. They insert chips to let the car self-diagnose its
performance, in real time. They put chips in brakes, making them less likely to
skid. They put microprocessors in the dashboard to ease navigation and optimize
fuel use. They use hydrogen fuel cells that do not pollute, and electric motors with
low noise pollution. And just as embedding chips in brakes made them better,
these lightweight cars will be wired with network intelligence to make them safer:
A crash will inflate intelligent multiple air bagsthink "smart bubblepak."
The accumulated effect of this substitution of knowledge for material in
automobiles is what energy visionary Amory Lovins, director of the Rocky
Mountain Institute, calls a hypercar: an automobile that will be safer than todays
car, yet can cross the continental United States on one tank of hydrogen fuel.
Already, the typical car boasts more computing power than your typical desktop
PC. Already the electronics in a car cost more ($728) than the steel in the car
($675). But what the hypercar promises, says Lovins, is a car remade by silicon. A
hypercar can be viewed as step toward a vehicle that is (and behaves like) a solid
state module. A car becomes not wheels with chips, but a chip with wheels. And
this chip with wheels will drive on a road system increasingly wired as a
decentralized electronic network obeying the network economys laws as well.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (10 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

Once we visualize cars as chips with wheels, its easier to imagine airplanes as
chips with wings, farms as chips with soil, houses as chips with inhabitants. Yes,
they will have mass, but that mass will be subjugated by the overwhelming
amount of knowledge and information flowing through it. In economic terms,
these objects will behave as if they had no mass at all. In that way, they migrate to
the network economy.
Because information trumps mass, all commerce migrates to the network
economy.
MIT Media Lab director Nicholas Negroponte guesstimates that the online
economy will have reached $1 trillion by 2000. Most tenured economists think
that figure is terribly optimistic. But actually that optimistic figure is terribly
underestimated. It doesnt anticipate the scale on which the economic world will
move on to the internet as the network economy infiltrates cars and traffic and
steel and corn. Even if all cars arent sold online immediately, the way cars are
designed, manufactured, built, and operated will depend on network logic and
chip power.
The current concern about the size of the online market will have diminishing
relevance, because all commerce is jumping on to the internet. The distinctions
between the network economy and the industrial economy will likewise blur and
fade, as all economic activity is touched in some way by network rules. The key
distinction remaining will be between the animated versus the inert.
The realm of the inert encompasses any object that is divorced from its economic
information. A head of lettuce today for instance does not contain any financial
information beyond a price sticker. Once applied, that price is fixed, too. It doesnt
change unless a human changes it. The economic consequences of lettuce sales
elsewhere, or a change in the general global economy do not affect the head of
lettuce itself. Instead, lettuce-related information flows through wholly separate
channelsnews programs or business newslettersthat are divorced from the lettuce
itself. The lettuce is economically inert.
The realm of the animated is different. Its vastly interconnected. In this coming
world a head of lettuce carries its own identity and price, displayed perhaps on an
LED slab nearby, or on a disposable chip attached to its stem. The price changes
as the lettuce ages, as lettuce down the street is discounted, as the weather in
California changes, as the dollar surges in relation to the Mexican peso. Traders
back in supermarket headquarters manage the "yield" of lettuce prices using the
same algorithms that airlines use to maximize their profits from airline seats. (An
unsold seat on a 747 is as perishable as an unsold head of lettuce.) In relation to
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (11 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

the net, the lettuce is animated. It is dynamic, adaptive, and interacting with
events. A river of money and information flows through it. And if money and
information flow through something, then its part of the network economy.
The progression by which the old economy migrates toward the new follows a
relentless logic:
Increasing numbers of inert objects are animated by information networks.
● Once the inert is touched by a network, it obeys the rules of information.
● Networks dont retreat; they tend to multiply into new territories.
● Eventually all objects and transactions will run by network logic.
●

One is tempted to add "resistance is futile." The overwhelming long-term trend
toward universal connection may seem Borg-like, as if all things will lose their
identity and become part of one large mindless swarm. Two things should be
made clear: 1) constant, ubiquitous connections do not per se eliminate
individuality; and 2) by "all" I mean an ongoing trend that approaches an
asymptote, not a finality.
One might say that industrialization eradicated hand-crafted production to the
point where all objects are machine-made. That is true by and large, and it
accurately describes the destination of a trend. But the trend has a few notable
exceptions. In an era of objects made completely by machines, hand-made items
are a scarcity and thus command very high prices. A fewbut only a fewshrewd
artisans and entrepreneurs can make a living crafting items by hand, items such as
bicycles, furniture, guitars, that would ordinarily be stamped out in a factory.
Resistance is marginal, but profitable.
The same will be true in the networking of the economy. Resistance will not be
futile. In a world of ubiquitous connection, where everything is connected to
everything else, scarce will be the person not connected at all, or the company not
pushing ideas and intangibles. If these mavericks are able to interface with the
networked economy without losing their distinctivness or value, then they will be
sought out, and their products priced high. One can imagine a successful ideaartist in the year 2005 who does no email, no phone, no videoconferences, no VR,
no books, and who does not travel. The only way to get her fabulous ideas is in
person, face-to-face at her hideout, live. The fact that she is booked 8 months in
advance only adds to her reputation.
MIT economist Paul Krugman has an alternative vision of how information
technology will invert the expected order. He writes: "The time may come when
most tax lawyers are replaced by expert systems software, but human beings are
still neededand well paidfor such truly difficult occupations as gardening, house
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (12 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

cleaning, and the thousands of other services that will receive an ever-growing
share of our expenditure as mere consumer goods become steadily cheaper."
Actually we dont need to wait for the future. Recently I had to hire two different
freelancers. One sat in her office moving symbols around. She transcribes taperecorded interviews and charges $25 per hour. The other is a guy who works out
of his home repairing greasy kitchen appliances. He charges $50 per hour, and as
far as I could tell had more business of the two. Krugmans argument is that these
"manual crafts" (as they are bound to be labeled when so high-priced) will level
the salary discrepancies that now exist between high tech and low tech
occupations.
My argument is that great gardeners will be high-priced not only because they are
scarce and exceptions, but also because they, like everyone else, will be using
technology to eliminate as much of the tedious repetitive work as possible, leaving
them time to do what humans are so good at: working with the irregular and
unexpected.
At the dawn of the industrial age it would have been difficult to imagine how such
quintessential agrarian jobs as farming, husbandry, and forestry could become so
industrialized. But that is what happened. Not just agrarian work, but just about
every imaginable occupation of that periodespecially menial laborwas intensely
affected by industrialization. The trend was steady: The entire economy eventually
became subjected to the machine.
The full-scale trend toward the network economy is equally hard to imagine, but
its progression is steady. It follows a predictable pattern. The first jobs to be
absorbed by the network economy are new jobs that could only exist in the new
world: code hackers, cool hunters, webmasters, and Wall Street quants. Next to
succumb are occupations with old goals that can be accomplished faster or better
with new tools: real estate brokers, scientists, insurance actuaries, wholesalers,
and anyone else who sits at a desk. Finally, the network economy engulfs all the
unlikely restthe butchers, bakers, and candlestick makersuntil the entire economy
is suffused by networked knowledge.
The three great currents of the network economy: vast globalization, steady
dematerialization into knowledge, and deep, ubiquitous networkingthese three
tides are washing over all shores. Their encroachment is steady, and selfreinforcing. Their combined effect can be rendered simply: The net wins.

Strategies

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (13 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

Maximize the value of the network. Feed the web first. Networks are nurtured
by making it as easy as possible to participate. The more diverse the players in
your networkcompetitors, customers, associations, and criticsthe better. Becoming
a member should be a breeze. You want to know who your customers are, but you
dont want to make it hard for them to get to you (IDs, yes; passwords, no). You
want to make it easy for your competitors to join too (all their customers could
potentially be yours as well). Be open to the power of network effects:
Relationships are more powerful than technical quality. Especially beware of the
"not-invented-here" syndrome. The surest sign of a great network player is its
willingness to let go of its own standard (especially if it is "superior") and adopt
someones elses to leverage the networks effect.
Seek the highest common denominator. Because of the laws of plentitude and
increasing returns, the most valuable innovations are not the ones with the highest
performance, but the ones with the highest performance on the widest basisthe
"highest per widest." Feeding the web first means ignoring state-of-the-art
advances, and choosing instead the highest common denominatorthe highest
quality that is widely accepted. One practical reason to pick the highest-per-widest
techniques and technologies is because complex technologies require passionate
and informed users who can share experience and context, and you want the
maximum dispersion of usage that doesnt sacrifice quality.
Dont invest in Esperanto. No matter how superior another way of doing
something is, it cant displace an embedded standardlike English. Avoid any
scheme that requires the purchase of brand new protocols when usable ones are
widely adopted.
Apply an embedded standard in a new territory. Is there a way to accomplish
what you want using existing standards and existing webs in a different context?
Inventing a novel standard for an existing network is quixotic. But some of the
greatest success stories in current times are about firms that master one network
and then use its embedded standards to exploit an established network in need of
improvement. This process is called "interfection." The present revolution in
telephony is all about zealous internet firms that are interfecting the old Bell-head
world of moving voices with newly established protocols for moving data on the
internet (known as internet protocols, or IP). The huge increasing returns that spin
off the internet give them a great advantage. Indeed, one telephony standard after
another is falling before the relentless march of IP. Likewise, aggressive
companies are leveraging the established desktop standard of Windows NTwith
all its plentitude effectsto interfect new domains such as telephone switching gear.
Even the huge cable TV networks have something to offer. The emerging
standards for video transmission, such as MPEG, are trying to migrate onto the
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (14 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 5: Feed The Web First

internet. In choosing which standard to back, consider dominant standards outside
your current network that could interfect your own turf.
Animate it. As the network economy unfolds, more firms will begin to ask
themselves this question: How do we put what we do into the logic of networks?
How do we prepare a product to behave with network effects? How do we
"netize" our product or service? (The answer is not "put it on a web site.")
Architects, for instance, generate huge volumes of data. How can they be
standardized? How can the data about a physical object (say a door) flow through
or with that object? What are the fewest functions we can add to glass windows to
incorporate them into networks? What steps can a contractor take to allow the
networked flow of information from any architect to any contractor to any builder
to any client? How do we increase the number of networks our service embraces?
Side with the net. Imagine that in 1960 an elf let you in on a secret: For the next
50 years computers would shrink drastically and cheapen yearly on a predictable
basis. Subsequently, whenever you needed to make a technological decision, if
you had counted on the smaller and cheaper, you would have always been right.
Indeed you could have performed financial miracles knowing little more than this
rule. Here is todays secret: In the coming 50 years, the net will expand and thicken
yearly on a predictable basisits value growing exponentially as it embraces more
members, and its costs of transactions drop toward zero. Whenever you need to
make a technological decision, if you err on the side of choosing the more
connected, the more open system, the more widely linked standard, you will
always be right.
Employ Evangelists. Economic webs are not alliances. There are often few
financial ties among members of a web. An effective way of establishing
standards and coordinating development is through evangelists. These are not
salespeople, nor executives. Their job is simply to extend the web, to identify
others with common interests and then assist in bringing them together. In the
early days when Apple was a cocreator of the emerging PC web, it successfully
employed evangelists to find third-party vendors to make plug-in boards, or to
develop software for their machines. Go and do likewise.
continue...

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-5.html (15 of 15) [12/10/2006 8:47:33 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 6: Let Go at the Top

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
Chapter 6: LET GO AT THE TOP
After Success, Devolution
The tightly linked nature of the emerging economy makes it behave like a
biological community. Wars and battles were the allegories of the industrial
economy. Coevolution and infections are more apt in the new economy.
Companies are like organisms evolving in an ecosystem. Some ecosystems in
nature offer few opportunities for life. In the Arctic there are only a couple of
strategies for survival, and a species had better get good at one of them. Other
biomes are chock-full of opportunities, which are in constant flux, appearing and
disappearing as species jockey for their niches. The harmony we attribute to
nature is not static perfection but a complex dance of ups, downs, trips and falls,
and balance regained.
Rich, interactive, and highly flexible in shape, the network economy resembles a
biome seething with action, a jungle in fast-forward motion. New niches open up
constantly and vanish quickly. Competitors sprout beneath you and then gobble
your spot up. One day you are king of the mountain, and the next day there is no
mountain at all.
Biologists describe the struggle of an organism to adapt in this type of habitat as a
long climb uphill, where uphill means greater adaptation. In this metaphor, an
organism that is maximally adapted to the times is situated on a peak. Imagine a
commercial organization instead of an organism. A company expends great effort
to move its butt uphill, or to evolve its product so that it is sitting on top,
maximally adapted to the consumer environment.
All organizations (profit and nonprofit alike) face two problems as they attempt to
find their peak of optimal fit. Both problems are exacerbated by the constant
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-6.html (1 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:37 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 6: Let Go at the Top

turbulence of the network economy.
First, unlike the industrial eras relatively simple environment, in which it was
fairly clear what an optimal product looked like and where on the stable horizon a
company should place itself, it is increasingly difficult in the network economy to
discern what hills are highest and which summits are false.
In biological terms, the new economic landscape is "rugged," disrupted by gulfs,
precipices, and steep slopes. Trails are riddled with dead ends, lead to false
summits, and made impassable by big-time discontinuities. Because the economic
terrain is jumbled with no overall pattern, there is no certainty that a company
intending to head up a slope toward a peak new market is actually climbing
anything larger than a hill. In biospeak, they may succeed in getting to the top yet
find themselves stuck on a suboptimal peak.

Turbulent times mean that local
success is not global success. A
company may be at peak
efficiency, but on the wrong
mountain. The trick is to select a
high-potential area to excel in

Big and small companies alike have to deal with their new landscape. Its often
unclear whether a firm should strive to be on top of a mountain (for example, to be
the worlds most reliable hard disk manufacturer), when the whole mountain range
beneath that particular peak may sink in a few years (if everyone moves their
storage onto large protein arrays). An organization can cheer itself silly on its way
to becoming the worlds expert on a dead-end technology. (The nuclear power
industry offers one example.)
Some of the most perfect technology was created just before its demise. Vacuum
tube technology reached a zenith of complexity just before it vanished. As MIT
economist James Utterback writes: "Firms are remarkably creative in defending
their entrenched technologies, which often reach unimaginable heights of elegance
in design and technical performance only when their demise is clearly
predictable." Its relatively easy to arrive at a peak of perfection. The problem is
that perfection can be local, or suboptimal, like being the best basketball player in
your state, but unaware of national tournaments. While a firm is congratulating
itself on creating the worlds fastest punch card readerthe fastest in the universe!the
rest of the economic world has moved on to the PC.
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-6.html (2 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:37 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 6: Let Go at the Top

The harsh news is that "getting stuck on a local peak" is a certainty in the
new economy.
Instability and disequilibrium are the norms; optimization wont last long. Sooner,
rather than later, a product will be eclipsed at its prime. Indeed, an innovation at
its prime increases its chances of being eclipsed. In Mastering the Dynamics of
Innovation, a study of innovation in the automobile industry, Utterback concludes
that "an unhappy byproduct of success in one generation of technology is a
narrowing of focus and vulnerability to competitors championing the next
technological generation." The product may be perfect, but for an increasingly
smaller range of uses or customers.
While one product is perfecting its peak, an outsider can move the entire mountain
by changing the rules. Detroit was the peak of perfection for big cars, but
suddenly the small-car mountain overshadowed it. Sears was king of the retail
mountain, but then Wal-Mart and Kmarts innovations created a whole new
mountain range that towered above it. For a brief moment Nintendo owned the
summits of the video-game mountain until Sega and later Sony built separate
mountains even higher. Each of the displaced industries, companies, or products
were stuck on a less optimal local peak.
There is only one way out. The stuck organism must devolve. In order to go from
a peak of local success to another higher peak, it must first go downhill. To do that
it must reverse itself and for a while become less adapted, less fit, less optimal. It
must do business less efficiently, with less perfection, relative to its current niche.
This is a problem. Organizations, like living beings, are hardwired to optimize
what they knowto cultivate success, not to throw it away. Companies find
devolving unthinkable and impossible. There is simply no allowance in the
enterprise for letting go.
And the better the company, the less room there is for devolution.
Everything about a modern organization is dedicated to pushing uphill. The CEO
is trained, and paid well, to push the firm toward the peak. Quality circles get the
entire workforce marching uphill toward optimal performance. Consultants
monitor the tiniest detail, trying to eliminate anything that might keep the
company from attaining the peak of perfection. Reengineering wonks zero in on
computer data showing which parts of the organization are lagging behind. Even
the receptionist is in search of excellence.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-6.html (3 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:37 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 6: Let Go at the Top

Where in the modern company is the permission, let alone the skill, to let go of
something that is working, and trudge downhill toward chaos?
And have no doubt: It will be chaotic and dangerous down below. The definition
of lower adaptivity is that it places you closer to extinction. But you have to
descend and risk extinction in order to have the opportunity to rise again.
Economist Joseph Schumpeter calls the progressive act of destroying success
"creative destruction." Its an apt term. Letting go of perfection requires a brute act
of will. And it can be done badly. Management guru Tom Peters claims that
corporate leaders are now being asked to do two tasksbuilding up and then nimbly
tearing downand that these two tasks require such diametrically opposed
temperaments that the same person cannot do both. He impishly suggests that a
company in the fast-moving terrain of the network economy ordain a Chief
Destruction Officer.
With or without someone in charge of creative destruction, there is no alternative
(that we know of) to leaving behind perfectly good products, expensively
developed technology, and wonderful brands, and heading down to trouble in
order to ascend again with hope.
Once upon a time this march was rare. The relatively stable markets and
technological environment of the industrial era were smooth, not rugged. Only a
few parameters changed each year, and they changed gradually. Opportunities
arrived with forewarning. Those days are over. The biological nature of the new
economic order means that the sudden disintegration of established domains will
be as certain as the sudden appearance of the new.
There can be no expertise in innovation unless there is also expertise in
demolishing the ensconced.
There is nothing wrong with perfection. To be maximally fit for a niche, to serve
optimally, to seek the peak of perfectionthese will always remain the goals of any
firm, or individual. So why let go of perfection at the top?
The problem with the top is not too much perfection, but too little perspective.
Great success in one product or service tends to block a longer, larger view of the
opportunities available in the economy as a whole, and of the rapidly shifting
terrain ahead. Legendary, long-lived companies are intensely outward-looking.
They can spot a global peak and distinguish it from the many false peaks. They
understand that an inward focus, especially a narrow focus on being "worlds best"
in some matter, can work against long-term adaptation by blinding the
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-6.html (4 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:37 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 6: Let Go at the Top

organization from seeking new heights. Better for the long haul is an outward
_perspective that is always seeking alternative mountains to climb.
This outward vista is all the more critical in the new economy because perfection
is no longer a solo act. Success is a highly interdependent enterprise,
encompassing a network of vendors, customers, and even competitors. A firm
needs to explore widely, outside of the current favored position, and at times
contrarily.
Letting go at the top is not an act against perfection, but against
shortsightedness.
In addition to the scarcity of leaders willing to disassemble the profitable, and the
natural bias of companies toward perfection, there is another reason why letting go
is so hard. Economists Paul Milgrom and John Roberts studied the
competenciesthe winning traitsof a large number of firms in modern
manufacturing and concluded that competencies of companies tended to occur in
suites, or in a guilds of skills.
This natural bundling of traits makes it very difficult for contenders to challenge a
successful firm. As Richard Nelson, an economist at Columbia University says,
"Successful firms often are difficult to imitate effectively because to do so
requires that a competitor adopt a number of different practices at once."
Companies can buy technology and human skills in a particular area. But
gradually acquiring one or two competencies at a time does no good when you are
attempting to displace a highly successful firm. The whole suite of mastery has to
be acquired simultaneously in order for you to be competitively effective. A firm
such as Disney is almost inimitable because of the difficulty of obtaining in one
swift swoop its highly integrated mix of skills.
The natural bundling of traits also makes unraveling for devolution immensely
difficult. To devolve demands going against all the best qualities of an
organization all at once. The organic world offers a number of lessons in this
regard. Biotechnology is built on the knowledge that most genes dont code for
anything themselves. Most genes regulateturn off and onother genes. The genetic
apparatus of a cell, then, is a dense network of hyperlinked interactions. Any gene
is indirectly controlled by many other genes.
Thus, most attributes in a biological organism usually travel in the genome as
loosely coupled associations. Blue eyes and freckles, say. Or red hair and a hot
temper. Two important consequences follow from this. First, to get rid of the
redheads feisty temperament by evolution may also meanat least at firstgetting rid
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-6.html (5 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:37 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 6: Let Go at the Top

of the red hair. Animal breeders know this dilemma firsthand. It is difficult to
breed out an unwanted trait without breeding out many desirable ones. Chicken
breeders cant get rid of a chickens aggressiveness without throwing out its egglaying proficiencies.
Secondly, the interlocking guild of competencies, which give organisms and
organizations their advantages, becomes a drawback during change. The increased
interlinkage of the network economy heightens this dilemma. In the network
economy, the skills of individual employees are more tightly connected, the
activities of different departments more highly coordinated, the goals of various
firms more independent. The net brings the influence of formerly unrelated forces
to bear upon each potential move.
The more successfully integrated a firms capabilities are, the harder it is to shift its
expertise by changing just a little. Thus successful firms are more prone to failure
during high rates of change. (Success makes it easy for the successful to deny this
fact.) Indeed, the very success of successful organizations makes them
conservative toward changebecause they must unravel many interdependent
skillseven if some are working fine.
The problem that IBM faced with the arrival of the personal computer in the early
1980s was not the problem of acquiring technological know-how. As a matter of
fact, IBM already knew how to build personal computers better than anyone. But
the package of proficiencies the blue suits had honed over the years to make IBM
indomitable in the mainframe computer field could not be gradually adapted to fit
the new faster-paced terrain of desktop-based computing. IBM was supreme in the
old regime because their sales, marketing, R&D, and management skills were all
optimally woven into a highly evolved machine. They couldnt change the size of
the computers they sold without also altering their management, forecasting, and
research skills at the same time. Changing everything at once is difficult for
anyone, anytime.
Because skill guilds constrain (and defend) an organization, it is often far
easier to start a new organization than to change a successful old one.
This is a major reason why the network economy is rich in start-ups. Starting new
is a less risky way to assemble an appropriate new set of competencies than trying
to rearrange an established firm, whose highly intertwined bundles resist
unraveling.
In a rugged economic landscape, about the only hope an established company has
for adapting to turbulent change is by employing the "skunk works" mode, which
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-6.html (6 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:37 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 6: Let Go at the Top

reflects another biological imperative. Computer simulations of evolution,
particularly those run by David Ackley, a researcher at Bellcore, demonstrate how
the source for mutations that eventually conquer a population start at the
geographical fringes of the population pool. Then after a period of "beta testing"
on the margins, the mutants overtake the center with their improvements and
become the majority.
At the edges, innovations dont have to push against the inertia of an established
order; they are mostly competing against other mutants. The edges also permit
more time for a novel organism to work out its bugs without having to oppose
highly evolved organisms. Once the mutants are refined, however, they sweep
rapidly through the old order and soon become the dominant form.
This is the logic of skunk works. Hide a team far from the corporate center, where
the clever can operate in isolation, away from the suffocating inertia of success.
Protect the team from performance pressures until their work has had the kinks
ironed out. Then introduce the innovation into the center. Every once in a while it
will take over and become the new standard.
Economist Michael Porter surveyed 100 industries in 10 countries and found that
in all the industries he studied, the source of innovations were usually either
"outsiders" or else relative outsidersestablished leaders in one industry making an
entry into a new one.
To maximize innovation, maximize the fringes.
Encourage borders, outskirts, and temporary isolation where the voltage of
difference can spark the new. The principle of skunk works plays a vital role in
the network economy. By definition a network is one huge edge. It has no fixed
center. As the network grows it holds increasing opportunities for protected
backwaters where innovations can hatch, out of view but plugged in. Once finetuned, the innovation can replicate wildly. The global dimensions of the network
economy means that an advance can be spread quickly and completely through the
globe. The World Wide Web itself was created this way. The first software for the
web was written in the relative obscurity of an academic research station in
Geneva, Switzerland. Once it was up and running in their own labs in 1991, it
spread within six months to computers all around the world.
The basic rules of success are eternal: serve customers obsessively, escalate
quality, outdo your competitors, have fun. The nature of the new economy
changes none of those rules. But the success they help one attain is not what it
used to be. However you want to measure it, success is a type of inertia. The law
of increasing returns can compound it but success still follows its momentum to

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-6.html (7 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:37 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 6: Let Go at the Top

the topbut the top is highly unstable now. Being at the top when the sands shift is
a liability. For anyone sane, success should breed paranoia.
In the highly turbulent, quickly reforming environment of the new economy, the
competitive advantage goes to the nimble and malleable, the flexible and quick.
Speed and agility trump size and experience. Fast to find the new is only one half
the equation; fast to let go is the other important half.
Of all the lessons that biology has to offer us as we begin to assemble a network
economy, the necessity of abandoning our successes will be the hardest to practice.

Strategies
Dont mistake a clear view for a short distance. The terror of devolution is that a
firm must remain intact while it descends into the harsh deserts between the
mountains of successes. It must continue to be more or less profitable while it
devolves. You cant jump from peak to peak. No matter how smart or how speedy
an organization is, it cant get to where it wants to go unless it muddles across an
undesirable place one step at a time. Enduring a period of less than optimal fitness
is doubly difficult when a very clear image of the new perfection is in plain sight.
For instance, sometime in the early 1990s the Encyclopaedia Britannica company
saw that they were stuck on a local peak. They were at the top: the best
encyclopedia in print. They had a worldwide sales force peddling a worldrecognized brand. But rising fast nearby was something new: CD-ROM. The
outline of this dazzling new mountain was clear. Its height was inspiring. But it
was a different realm from their old mountain: no paper, no door-to-door
salespeople, cheap, little dinky disks on the shelf, and a media that required
constant updates. They would have to undo much of what they knew. Still there,
clear as could be, was their future. But while the destination was extremely clear,
the path that led to it was treacherous. And, it turned out, the route was even
longer than they thought. The company spent millions, lost salespeople in droves,
and verged on collapse. They entered a scary period during which neither print nor
CD worked. Eventually they completed the CD-ROM encyclopedia they had
envisioned many years earlier, but only after an outsider (Microsoft) published a
better one. Encyclopaedia Britannicas future is still in doubt. But their travails are
common. Says futurist Paul Saffo: "We tend to mistake a clear view of the future
for a short distance."

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-6.html (8 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:37 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 6: Let Go at the Top

To scale a higher peak -- a
potentially greate gain -- often
means crossing a valley of less
fitness first. A clear view of the
future should not be mistaken for
a short distance.

Today, nearly everyone in business has a clear view of the future of TV. Its
something that comes to you in the same way you get the internet. You choose
your shows, from 500 channels. You can shop, maybe interact with a game, or
click for more information about a movie you are watching. The technology seems
feasible, the physics logical, and the economics plausible. But Future TV looks a
lot closer than it really is because the path between here and there winds through a
barren desert with little optimal about it. Although the economics may work later,
they barely work out now in the alkali flats. It may be that none of the large
television or computer or phone companies are sufficiently nimble (or hungry) to
make it across the valley of deatheven though the shape of success is so visible.
Send the network out. There is only one sound strategy for crossing the valley:
Dont go alone. Established firms are now doing what they should be doing:
weaving dozens, if not hundreds, of alliances and partnerships; seeking out as
many networks of affiliation and common cause as possible, sharing the risk by
making a web. A motley caravan of firms can cross a suboptimal stretch with
hope. Banding together buys their networks several things. First, it allows
knowledge about the terrain to be shared. Some firm riding point might discover a
small hill of opportunity. Settling there allows small oases of opportunity to be
created. If enough intermediate oases can be found or made, the long journey can
become a series of shorter hops along an archipelago of small successes. The more
firms, customers, explorers, and vested interests that are attempting to cross, the
more likely the archipelago can be found or created.
To create the future cara car that is easily imaginable right nowan entrepreneurial
car company can only succeed by spinning together a network of vendors,
regulators, insurers, road makers, and competitors to help others to devolve
quickly and cross.
Who is in charge of devolution? It is a rare leader who can creatively destroy as
well as relentlessly build. Its a rare committee that will vote to terminate what
works. Its a rare outsider whose advice to relinquish a golden oldie will be heeded.
You are in charge of devolving. Everyone is. Its just one more chore in the
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-6.html (9 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:37 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 6: Let Go at the Top

network economy.
Question success. Not every success needs to be abandoned drastically, but every
success needs to be questioned drastically. Do interesting substitutes exist? Are
radical alternatives receiving compounding attention? You need to consider
innovations far afield, ones that are not "on the same mountain." Are there
innovations that are changing the rules of the game? Beware of minor incremental
improvementsslight baby steps on the same mountain. These can be a form of
denial. Nicholas Negroponte, director of the MIT Media Lab, declares
"Incrementalism is innovations worst enemy."
Searching as a way of life. In the network economy, nine times out of ten, your
fiercest competitor will not come from your own field. In turbulent times, when
little is locked in, it is imperative to search as wide as possible for places where
innovations erupt. Innovations increasingly interfect from other domains. A
ceaseless blanket searchwide, easy, and shallowis the only way you can be sure
you will not be surprised. Dont read trade magazines in your field; scan the
magazines of other trades. Talk to anthropologists, poets, historians, artists,
philosophers. Hire some 17-year-olds to work in your office. Make a habit to visit
a web site at random. Tune in to talk radio. Take a class in scenario making. Youll
have a much better chance at recognizing the emergence of something important if
you treat these remote venues as neighbors.
continue...

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-6.html (10 of 10) [12/10/2006 8:47:37 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 7: From Places to Spaces

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
Chapter 7: FROM PLACES TO SPACES
Making a Different Kind of Big
"Geography is dead!"
This pronouncement has become a cliche among the advocates of digitalization
and telecommunications. The advent of universal and inexpensive communication
is said to usher in an era where distance, place, real estate, and geography are
irrelevant. The notion is only half true.
Place still matters, and will for a long time to come. However, the new economy
operates in a "space" rather than a place, and over time more and more economic
transactions will migrate to this new space.
Geography and real estate, however, will remain, well...real. Cities will flourish,
and the value of a distinctive place, such as a wilderness area, or a charming hill
village, will only increase.
Tom Peters, the perennially entertaining management guru, likes to scare the
daylights out of dazed American CEOs by proclaiming, "Think of Asia, Latin
America, Eastern Europe! Theyre smart, fast, and cheap. And theyre next door.
Your worst nightmare of a competitor is now only one-eighth of a second away!"
Thats the maximum time it takes a signal to travel from one end of the globe to the
other. These hungry competitors can do anything you can do, cheaper, and they all
are, at most, only an eighth of a second away. In short, Peters proclaims the death
of distance and the arrival of globalization.
Thats the bad news. The good news is that those geographically far away
competitors will never be any closer than an eighth of a second. And for many
things in life, that is too far away.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-7.html (1 of 13) [12/10/2006 8:47:50 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 7: From Places to Spaces

A kiss for instance. Or playing sports. Or getting to know flowers. Start-up
companies selling futuristic multiplayer online games have discovered that the
inherent delay in the speed of light circling the globe causes real-time experiences
to fail. That noticeable gap makes no real difference in the transmission of a book
order, or a weather signal, but enough of life thrives on subtle instantaneous
responses that one-eighth of a second kills intimacy and spontaneity. Thus actual
real-time face-to-face meetings will retain their irreplaceable value. Thus airline
travel will increase as fast as online communication increases. Thus cities will
endure as lag-free places where there are no one-eighth second delays.
People will inhabit places, but increasingly the economy inhabits a space.
A place is bounded by four dimensions. For two things to be adjacent, they must
be close to each other on one of four axes: up/down, left/right, back/forth (x, y, z),
and time. As rich as physical places are (and we still dont appreciate how rich they
can be), they limit the number of connections that entities can make within them.
A person in a place can only interact with a fixed and rather small number of other
people in the same vicinity. Artifacts can touch only the other artifacts in close
proximity.
A space, unlike a place, is an electronically created environment. It is where more
and more of the economy happens. Unlike place, space has unlimited dimensions.
Entities (people, objects, agents, bits, nodes, etc.) can be adjacent in a thousand
different ways and a thousand different directions. A person in an electronic space
can communicate to 10 million people at once, or interact in a game with 20,000
othersthings that would be impossible in physical space. An automobile can be
linked in hundreds of directionsto other cars stuck in traffic miles away,
environmental monitors, satellite navigation antennas, toll collectors, and the
manufacturers engine-performance center. In physical place a car can only interact
with those within braking distance of its front and rear bumpers.

The invention of communication
allowed life to evolve from
globular organisms into fantastic
beings, just as networks allow
place-based firms to blossom into
fantastic spaces.

Spaces arent bound by proximity. The advantage of spaces is rooted less in their
nongeographical virtuality and more in their unlimited ability to absorb
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-7.html (2 of 13) [12/10/2006 8:47:50 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 7: From Places to Spaces

connections and relationships. By means of communications, network spaces can
connect all kinds of nodes, dimensions, relationships, and interactionsnot just
those physically close to one another.
The popular suffix of "space" is a truncated version of cyberspace, a science
fiction term for an immersive electronic space. But the roots of the term are
deeper. The technical concept of "space" came out of mathematics and computer
science. Space is one way scientists describe complex systems; very complex
spaces have their own unique dynamics. The notation of space is particularly
handy when describing the ordinarily vague and indefinite form of networks. The
net, as it encompasses billions of objects and agents (there are already more than
100,000 cameras on the net), operates in what mathematicians call "very high
dimensions," and has correspondingly novel dynamics. As electronic mediated
environments expand, place has less influence and complex space more. As the
economy infiltrates each network medium, it trades a physical marketplace for a
conceptual marketspace.
The network economy shifts places to spaces.
In the new realm of high dimensional spaces, the network economy exhibits the
following space-based behaviors.
A different kind of bigness
● Rampant clustering
● Peer authority
● Re-intermediation
●

The industrial economy made it impossible to live next door to the source of all
the goods consumers desired. If you wanted bananas, many intermediaries had to
handle the fruit between the plantation in Honduras and your kitchen. Between the
author of a book and you there needed to be a chain of editors, bankers, printers,
distributors, wholesalers, and booksellers. Between you and good health care were
doctors, nurses, insurance behemoths, and hospital staff. Between you and the car
of your dreams stood a line of miners, smelters, engineers, manufacturers, railroad
yards, showrooms, and salesmen. Each one of these agents moved the good or
service along; some by completing the product (the car engineer) or customizing
the service (the hospital staff), and some simply by physically moving it toward
you (the banana boat). In business theory this line came to be known as the value
chain. Each intermediate link in the long chain of creation added some measure of
extra value, justifying the cost the link added to the goods final price. Companies
competed to insert themselves into a value chain, then to expand their control of
greater lengths of the chain.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-7.html (3 of 13) [12/10/2006 8:47:50 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 7: From Places to Spaces

One of the very first noticeable effects of computers and networked
communications was the alarming way they disrupted traditional value chains.
Futurist Paul Saffo calls the multiple interactions needed to survive in the new
economy a move "from value chain to value web."
In the marketspace of networks, value flows in webs.
Many classic value chains were crowded with intermediaries who distributed a
completed product or service. Take the banana wholesalers. Although they
physically handled the product and often stored it in inventory at great cost, their
primary value to the customer was informational. In theory, small bunches of
bananas could be wrapped and sent directly to your home from a particular
plantation with fewer intermediaries involved in warehousing and storage, and
thus at lower costs. You would place an order directly to Best Bananas in
Honduras for one bunch per week, except during the school holidays, and they
then would mail them out to you. To do that effectively, though, would require
network technology capable of a) finding a plantation you like; b) getting the right
bunch to you at the right time; c) shifting to a cooperating planter if the first
planters fruit was not yet ripe; d) tracking the account payable for such a tiny
buyer as yourself; and, e) dealing with all the millions of ordinary exceptions and
screw-ups that any system as complex as this would entail.
The industrial age had no technology capable of doing that, so it substituted the
wholesale system for networked information. Orders were aggregated at the local
produce stand, sent to a wholesaler, who aggregated them further, and relayed the
combined request through various shipping intermediaries to a farmers coop,
which distributed orders to various planters. Your personal "order" was
submerged in a sea of others; the system essentially ignored it. Making their way
back to you, the bananas followed a reverse chain of links, sitting in warehouses
as a way to buffer the incomplete consumer information they should have had.
It may be a long while before bananas skip the industrial value chain, but other
foods, higher priced and not as bulky, already can be bought this way. Food
fanatics in cities anywhere can purchase specialty coffees, or authentic maple
syrup, or organic beef by linking up with farmers directly and getting their goods
right from the farm via the post office, or FedEx networks, bypassing the
wholesale and retail intermediaries. When gourmets use web sites and direct-mail
catalogs to buy directly from growers, the traditional intermediaries are taken out
of the picture.
The banking industry was the first to name this creeping displacement of
intermediaries. They noticed, quite rightly, that as information technology
infiltrated the banking industry, and as the industry was deregulated, nobody
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-7.html (4 of 13) [12/10/2006 8:47:50 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 7: From Places to Spaces

seemed to need banks anymoreat least not banks as bureaucratic intermediaries.
You could get easier loans at Sears, higher interest from a mutual fund, and better
service at an ATM. Banking functions were being "disintermediated" the bankers
cried! For the typical neighborhood bank this was especially true. The
disintermediation of the financial systems continues unabated; every week another
bank branch shuts down.
As more commercial activities shift toward knowledge and information, the
economy seems ripe for fatal disintermediation. Why should such digital age
products as music CDs and news reports travel any other route except the short
one that proceeds directly from the artist or author to you, the listener? Recent
success stories, such as the case of Matt Drudge, give credence to a networks
inclination to bypass the middle guys. Drudge, a no-name Hollywood gossip
reporter, dispatched his insider scoops directly from a bedroom computer to a
growing list of web readers until he had a national readership and a national brand.
Some bands, both famous and unknown, are attempting the same thing in music.
The laborious tasks of stamping out disks, storing them, trucking them across
country, warehousing on pallets, and then fighting for display space in a music
store all seem to evaporate as network technologies make the transmission of
music to fans direct and short. Big net, no middlemen, no fuss.
The potential of disintermediation, however, looms larger than the actuality at the
moment, and casts a large and frightening shadow. Retailers, especially, are in a
panic. If anyone can log on to the web and comparison shop for the lowest-priced
refrigerator directly from the manufacturer, whats in it for the mall stores? If
anyone can order up a video from the studio, whats in it for the local video shop?
If anyone can get 5,000 sitcoms on demand, who needs NBC? The wholesalers are
worried silly, but artists and creators are euphoric. The web promised (finally!) a
way to beat the system of limited shelf space that stymied the debut of new
novels, new albums, and new products in every type of store. With the web, there
was unlimited shelf space. There was success in store for everyone!
When Wired magazine began developing one of the very first commercial web
sites in 1993, the phrase "unlimited shelf space" was often used by potential
contributors. Closely linked to this phrase was "bypassing the editor": the notion
that editors were superfluous intermediaries, and that writers and readers didnt
have to be subject to the frustrating and degrading filtering of go-betweeners. The
raw stuff would flow in its full length and naked power directly from writer to
reader. Our first prototypes convinced us that that wasnt how the net worked. The
web site we launched and continue to build today (Wired Digital) is based on a
different premise: that in a network economy, intermediaries have tremendous
value.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-7.html (5 of 13) [12/10/2006 8:47:50 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 7: From Places to Spaces

Technology encourages the
proliferation of intermediates.
Smaller companies, in greater
numbers, are able to find niches
where niches could not have
existed before.

Everything about the web, especially the over 1 million web sites currently in
existence, suggests that the expectation that the network economy favors
disintermediation is exactly wrong. It is quite the opposite. Network technologies
do not eliminate intermediaries. They spawn them. Networks are a cradle for
intermediaries.
Everywhere networks go, intermediaries follow. The more nodes, the more
middlemen.
It is so cheap to complete a transaction from almost anywhere, anytime, that tiny
slivers of value, built upon microcosts of transactions, can be surgically inserted
into all manner of processes and products. Because each microvalue sliver is so
cheap, there is economic room for multiple microvalue slivers where before there
was only room for one intermediary. As transaction costs plummet to the
nanopenny level, some little crumb of value can be profitably added to more and
more processes.
The combinatorial mathematics of networks also boost the opportunities for
intermediaries. By definition, every node on a network is a node between other
nodes. The more connections there are between members in a net, the more
intermediary nodes there can be. Everything in a network is intermediating
something else.
All nodes in a network are intermediaries.
Someday everyone in the world will have email, and when they do, I dont want
six billion emails a day as everyone shares whats on their mind. Since half the
world will probably have their own businesses, and half of those will be start-ups,
I will do everything I can to insert intermediaries between my mailbox and their
mailsenders, to sort out, route, and filter my incoming mail. By the same token
when I go to email old Mohammed Jhang, someone whom I have not met, who
lives in Chinese Turkestan, to let him know about my latest gene therapy cure for
arthritis, Ill need an intermediary to find him and then to reach past his blocking
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-7.html (6 of 13) [12/10/2006 8:47:50 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 7: From Places to Spaces

filters. I probably wont get through so Ill need more intermediaries (An
advertiser? A lottery? A locating agent?) to lure him into the open, perhaps a
pigeon-racing club, or the cineplex where he gets his movies from, to make him
aware of my discovery. Sure, anyone can type "new gene therapy cure for
arthritis" and turn up 32,000 hits. But you need intermediaries to vouch for their
medical worthiness. You need intermediaries to compare my price and the others.
The marketspace of the new economy can hold far more intermediaries than the
marketplace of the old could. This swelling bulk of intermediaries becomes an
exaggerated middle. As networks proliferate, so do overlapping clusters of
intersecting interests that reside in the realm of the middle. In fact the hypermiddle
is less a size than a shape.
Technology has always influenced the size of companies. The invention of the
elevator made possible high-rise buildings, which brought thousands of employees
together into one tightly coupled physical space. High-rise towers launched the
golden era of the centralized corporation. The advent of telephones on employee
desks allowed the centralized corporation to spawn branches in neighboring cities
and states, so that corporations grew in staff; at its peak in 1967 GM employed
some 850,000 people in all of its factories and administration buildings.
Computers and networking technology initiated a shift in the other direction. What
took 8 people before might be done now with 7 using technology. Firms that
relied heavily on these technologies could reduce the number of employees. A
company like Microsoft today employs a relatively meager 20,000 people.
If firms got smaller with tiny doses of networking technology, then the logical
extrapolation dictated that with large doses the firm should continue to reduce
until it reached one employee. Some statistics tend to confirm this drift. Counting
the 14 million self-employed, the 8.3 million independent contractors, and the 2.6
million temporarily employed in the United States, there are 25 million Americans
today working as a unit of one. If this trend continues for a couple more decades,
in the future everyone will be a free-agent working for themselves, and our
country will be a free-agent nation.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-7.html (7 of 13) [12/10/2006 8:47:50 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 7: From Places to Spaces

Network technology increases the
size of the largest firms yet makes
it more possible to have smaller
firms while also increasing the
number of midsize firms.

But network power cuts both ways. Although networks empower the solo
practitioner, they also empower very large organizations. We are just as likely to
see the rise of the Godzilla-nation as the free-agent nation. Big has not really been
done yet. With the incredible place-shifting power of communication
technologies, and a yet-to-be-tapped global market, the world will soon witness
corporations that will dwarf the size of the old GM. One can imagine a truly
global consultancy, such as Andersen Consultants or Ernst & Young, having a
staff of one million worldwide.
But the big will have a different kind of bigness.
In the space of networks, size is reckoned differently. The new organization is flat,
spread out laterally, diffuse, with nested cores, and swollen in the middle.
Companies will change shape more than they will change size.
During the industrial era, size was polarized to extremes. There was the "world,"
or the masses, and there was "I." Industrialization emphasized the large-scale
efficiencies of mass production, which quickly led to mass consumption and mass
society. A drift to the large, if not the largest, coursed through the society. If
something was worth doing well, it was worth doing at the scale of the world.
Ambitions ran to the tallest skyscraper, the biggest factory, the largest dam, the
longest bridge. The technologies of communication of that age also flexed the
muscle of big. The printed page and the radio signalas central to the industrial age
as anything made of ironinformed, educated, and mobilized hundreds of millions
from a single transmission source. The power of big was never so nicely
diagrammed as in the TV: a tiny spark amplified to reach billions of people over
thousands of miles at once, in unison.
The "I" on the other hand was fed by mass advertising and the cult of the
individual, which sprang up after the Second World War. A fascination with
psychoanalysis, with the ego, with personal expression and self-esteem,
culminated in the "Me decades" starting in the 1970s. The first bits of the
information age fed this whetted appetite for further individualism. We got
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-7.html (8 of 13) [12/10/2006 8:47:50 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 7: From Places to Spaces

personal computers amid personal trainers, personal advisers, and expectations of
everything personalized.
Left behind by industrialization was the realm of the middle. The middle was once
where everyone lived and most things happened. This size once flourished in
geographical towns (with tens of thousands), ordinary communities (with
thousands) and neighborhoods (with hundreds). Places embraced the middle very
well.
But the vitality of places was weakened by a bifurcating pressure to make things
either huge for the masses or solo for the personal. The logic of the modern was: it
must appeal to everyone, or to only me. Neither mass society nor the cult of the
personal was equipped to deal with the peculiar dynamics of the middle. There
was little economic or technological support for aiming an innovation at 5,000
people. Neither broadcast nor the personal chip, for example, really knew how to
do towns and neighborhoods.
The network economy encourages the middle space. It supplies technology
(which the industrial age could not) to nurture mid-sized wonders.
Technology for mass production will remain. Technology to customize the
personal will accelerate. But for the first time we have technology naturally suited
for a size smaller than mass and greater than the self. We have a technology of net
and web, stuffed with middleness.
Futurist Alvin Toffler says it best: "The era of mass society is over." He ticks off
the casualties: "No more mass production. No more mass consumption. No more
mass education. No more mass democracy. No more weapons of mass destruction.
No more mass entertainment."
In its place: a world of demassified niches. Niche production, niche consumption,
niche diversion, niche education. Niche world. Communities. Affinity groups.
Clubs. Special Interest Groups. Clans. Subcultures. Tribes. Cults. (There is
nothing utopian about this world.) Instead of the mass technology of broadcast
TV, we now have net-centric alternatives.
We see the problem of the unserved middle most clearly in communication media.
Say you wanted to talk to 10,000 people once a day. Unless you wanted to speak
to a group bounded by geographya small town, or a subset of a small cityyoud be
stymied. You can broadcast to a million unknowns hoping you happen to catch
some of the 10,000 you want, or you can slowly collect the names of individuals
who contact you, one by one, and transmit to them directly. Neither way is
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-7.html (9 of 13) [12/10/2006 8:47:50 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 7: From Places to Spaces

elegant. Retailers call this the "hard middle," because it is so hard to service a
group of 10,000 customers who share a common interest but not a common
geography. Retailers crave the middle because they have learned that you cant
appeal to folks with a simple naked exchange of money. You need other essentials
of marketplacesconversations, loitering, flirting, people-watching. Before you can
have commerce, you need a community, a middle number of interacting people.
It takes a village to make a mall. Community precedes commerce.
The hard middle is a pervasive problem. We have tools to access the ideas in one
persons book: its index and table of contents. We have tools to access the ideas of
a library of millions of books: its card catalog. But we dont have tools to access
ideas in the hard middle, the region of expertise in 10,000 scholars, or 1,000
books. Where do you go for a listing of key words, key subjects, and key ideas for
the complete literature about the U.S. Civil War?
Until recently, nowhere. Today, the symbol WWW immediately pops into our
mind. We see in the World Wide Web the promise of creating a viable midlands.
In this particular case the hyperlinking of all documents could be filtered and
categorized to generate an index to middle-sized knowledge.

Services and goods for previously
ingnored community -- and townsized groups, also known as the
hard middle, can make economic
sense with network technology.

The electronic space encourages middle communities. Unlike either broadcast or
PC chips, a network fosters the energy that flows from the friend of a friend to the
friend of a friend. Network architecture can find, cultivate, persuade, manage, and
nourish intermediate-sized audiences and communities focused on common
interests. Niche markets, in other words. Magazines, rooted in the postal system
network, have served niche markets for a century. But the emerging broadband
network offers many relationships the postal network (and magazines) could not:
spontaneous reply, fully symmetrical bandwidth, true peerage communication,
archives, filtering, community memory, etc.
Network logic supports the middle space in several ways.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-7.html (10 of 13) [12/10/2006 8:47:50 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 7: From Places to Spaces

First, the plunging costs of information make it possible to find, then connect, two
passions together far more efficiently than in the past. Once connected, cheap
transactions keep the connection flourishing.
Second, symmetrical messaging, text, video, audio, 3D spaces, archives, privacy
controls, all enhance the once slim attractions of a virtual community experience,
keeping the community longer.
Third, the ubiquity of e-money in the network means that every niche has the
ability to initiate an indigenous economy. The knowledge that dog breeders used
to swap among themselves can become lucrative to the community as a whole
when plugged into the network economy.
Fourth, the border-collapsing nature of the network economy means embryonic
communities can theoretically draw upon a larger pool of potential members: all 6
billion humans. The law of increasing returns can feed a small interest into a midsized interest. Whereas once there was a lone fanatic for every notion, now there
is a devoted web site for every fanatic notion; soon there can be 10,000 fellow
enthusiasts for every fascination.
The network economy has set into motion the power of hobby tribes and informed
peers. Amateurs, plugged into the net, discover comets, find fossils, and track bird
migrations better than pros. By networking their interests and passing tips around,
amateurs also create software in languages so new that they are taught in no
classrooms. These self-organized communities, unleashed from their obscurity by
the net, are the new authorities.
Silent movie buffs and meteorite collectors are quickly gathering on the net
because the nets space coheres them into a middle market, served at last by
business and sales aimed directly at them. Egyptologists or cancer patients can
create a mid-sized agora (neither insignificant nor huge) for ideas and knowledge.
There was no place in mass markets for the niche communities of ethnic tribes or
Klingon speakers, but the network economy constructs a space for them.
But mass broadcast TV and big print publishing are not going away. The chief
advantage of peerage networksthat information flows in ripples through a web of
equal nodesis also the chief weakness of networks. Information can only advance
by indirect osmosis, passing along like gossip. The web becomes a thicket of
obstacles preventing simultaneous dissemination to all parts.
The net shifts from mass media to mess media.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-7.html (11 of 13) [12/10/2006 8:47:50 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 7: From Places to Spaces

On the new mess media, rumor, conspiracy, and paranoia run rampant. These have
always been the downsides of communities; network midlands will also have to
learn to deal with impenetrable webs and paranoic sensibilities. Capitalizing on
these disadvantages, broadcast will thrive symbiotically within the network
economy. Sometimes real-time signals en masse are needed and wanted.
Broadcasts flyover will be used, or material will be directly pushed to users. The
web needs broadcast to focus attention, and broadcast needs the web to find
communities.
Network technology expands all sizes. It enables the biggest to become bigger and
the smallest to become smaller. In the near future we can expect to see institutions
larger than they have ever been, and smaller than they have ever been. For
instance, a few banks will grow monstrously large at the same time that other
banks shrink to the size of a smart card in a wallet and increase their numbers by
millions. The middle expands, too. That hard-to-reach territory that once was well
served by places is rejuvenated.
The space of network nodes and flows creates new social organizations, new
forms of companies, in oddball sizes, and in unconventional arrangements. We are
on the brink of entering a world where almost any shape of business is possible.

Strategies
The only side a network has is outside. Like a rapidly spinning galaxy, the net
creates an unrelenting force that sends everything from the inside toward the outer
edges. Since little is left inside, the action is thrown to the perimeter. Rather than
buck this centrifugal force, companies should consider outsourcing chores to other
equally amorphous networked companies. The most powerful capitulation to the
nets outward spin is to outsource seemingly core activities. For instance, some
airline companies outsource the business of air-freight hauling, even though the
cargo is carried by their own planes. There are 1,001 reasons why core
outsourcing cant be done, but 999 of them ignore the centripetal force of the
network economy.
Prepare for flash crowds. Electronic spaces unhinge a crowd of visitors: They
can appear in a flash and then leave in a flash. During the chess match between
Deep Blue and Gary Kasparov, the IBM web site welcomed 5 million visitors.
When the match was over the site was empty. On the eve of the 1996 U.S.
elections, the CNN web site experienced 50 million attempts to log on. The next
day, the crowd was gone. One day a flash crowd is pounding at the doors, the next
day they have vanished. The mass audience has transformed itself into a wave that

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-7.html (12 of 13) [12/10/2006 8:47:50 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 7: From Places to Spaces

swishes around from one hot spot to another. But the nature of spaces is that in
order to accommodate a flash crowd when they do come, you have to be ready,
tooled up.
continue...

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-7.html (13 of 13) [12/10/2006 8:47:50 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 8: No Harmony All Flux

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
Chapter 8: NO HARMONY, ALL FLUX
Seeking Sustainable Disequilibrium
In the industrial perspective, the economy was a machine that was to be tweaked
to optimal efficiency, and once finely tuned, maintained in productive harmony.
Companies or industries especially productive of jobs or goods had to be protected
and cherished at all costs, as if these firms were rare watches in a glass case.
As networks have permeated our world, the economy has come to resemble an
ecology of organisms, interlinked and coevolving, constantly in flux, deeply
tangled, ever expanding at its edges. As we know from recent ecological studies,
no balance exists in nature; rather, as evolution proceeds, there is perpetual
disruption as new species displace old, as natural biomes shift in their makeup,
and as organisms and environments transform each other.
Even the archetypal glories of hardwood forests or coastal wetlands, with their
apparent wondrous harmony of species, are temporary federations on the move.
Harmony in nature is fleeting. Over relatively short periods of biological time, the
mix of species churns, the location of ecosystems drift, and the roster of animals
and plants changes as they come and go.
So it is with network perspective: companies come and go quickly, careers are
patchworks of vocations, industries are indefinite groupings of fluctuating firms.
Change is no stranger to the industrial economy or the embryonic information
economy; Alvin Toffler coined the term "future shock" in 1970 as the reasonable
response of humans to an era of accelerating change.
But the network economy has moved from change to flux.
Change, even in its shocking forms, is rapid difference. Flux, on the other hand, is
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-8.html (1 of 9) [12/10/2006 8:47:53 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 8: No Harmony All Flux

more like the Hindu god Shiva, a creative force of destruction and genesis. Flux
topples the incumbent and creates a platform for more innovation and birth. This
dynamic state might be thought of as "compounded rebirth." And its genesis
hovers on the edge of chaos.
Donald Hicks of the University of Texas studied the half-life of Texan businesses
for the past 22 years and found that their longevity has dropped by half since
1970. Thats change. But Austin, the city in Texas in which new businesses have
the shortest expected life spans, also has the fastest-growing number of new jobs
and the highest wages. Thats flux.

The number of old jobs lost
increases, but not as fast as the
number of new jobs created.
More important, the spread of
gained jobs over lost jobs widens.

Hicks told his sponsors in Texas that "the vast majority of the employers and
employment on which Texans will depend in the year 2026or even 2006do not yet
exist." In order to produce 3 million new jobs by 2020, 15 million new jobs must
be created in all, because of flux. "Rather than considering jobs as a fixed sum to
be protected and augmented, Hicks argued, the state should focus on encouraging
economic churningon continually recreating the states economy," writes Jerry
Useem in Inc., a small-business magazine that featured Hicks report. Ironically,
only by promoting flux can long-term stability be achieved.
When flux is inhibited, slow death takes over. Contrast Texas and the other 49
states with the European Union. Between 1980 and 1995 Europe protected 12
million governmental jobs, and in the process of fostering stasis lost 5 million jobs
in the private sector. The United States, fostering flux, saw a staggering 44 million
old jobs disappear from the private sector. But 73 million new jobs were
generated, for a net gain of 29 million, and in the process the United States kept its
12 million government jobs, too. If you can stand the turmoil, flux triumphs.
This notion of constant flux is familiar to ecologists and those who manage large
networks. The sustained vitality of a complex network requires that the net keep
provoking itself out of balance.
If the system settles into harmony and equilibrium, it will eventually stagnate
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-8.html (2 of 9) [12/10/2006 8:47:53 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 8: No Harmony All Flux

and die.
Innovation is disruption; constant innovation is perpetual disruption. This seems to
be the goal of a well-made network: to sustain a perpetual disequilibrium. A few
economists studying the new economy (among them Paul Romer and Brian
Arthur) have come to similar conclusions. Their work suggests that robust growth
sustains itself by poising on the edge of constant chaos. "If I have had a constant
purpose it is to show that transformation, change, and messiness are natural in the
economy," writes Arthur.
The difference between chaos and the edge of chaos is subtle. Apple Computer, in
its attempt to seek persistent disequilibrium and stay innovative, may have tottered
too far off-balance and let itself unravel toward extinction. Or, if its luck holds, it
may discover a new mountain to ascend after a near-death experience.
The dark side of flux is that the new economy builds on the constant extinction of
individual companies as theyre outpaced or morphed into yet newer companies in
new fields. Industries and occupations also experience this churn. Even a sequence
of rapid job changes for workerslet alone lifetime employmentis on its way out.
Instead, careersif that is the word for themwill increasingly resemble networks of
multiple and simultaneous commitments with a constant churn of new skills and
outmoded roles. About 20% of the American workforce already have an
arrangement other than the traditional employee relationship with one employer.
And 86% of them claim to be happy about it.
Nowhere is this trend toward constant flux more evident than in the entertainment
industry centered in southern California. Hollywoods "cultural-industrial
complex" includes not just film, but also music, multimedia, theme park design,
TV production, and commercials.
Giant film studios no longer make movies. Loose entrepreneurial networks of
small firms make movies, which appear under the names of the big studios. In
addition to various camera crews, about 40 to 50 other firms, plus scores of
freelancers, connect up to produce a movie; these include special effects vendors,
prop specialists, lighting technicians, payroll agencies, security folks, and catering
firms. They convene as one financial organization for the duration of the movie
project, and then when the movie is done, the company disperses. Not too much
later they will reconvene as other movie-making entities in entirely new ad hoc
arrangements. Cyberpunk author Bruce Sterling has his own inimitable way of
describing the flux of "Hollywood film ad-hocracies." To make a movie, he says,
"Youre pitchforking a bunch of freelancers together, exposing some film, using
the movie as the billboard to sell the ancillary rights, and after the thing gets
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-8.html (3 of 9) [12/10/2006 8:47:53 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 8: No Harmony All Flux

slotted to video, everybody just vanishes."
Fewer than ten entertainment companies employ more than 1,000 employees. Of
the 250,000 people involved in the entertainment complex in the Los Angeles
region, an estimated 85% of the firms employ 10 people or fewer. Joel Kotkin,
author of a landmark 1995 article in Inc. magazine entitled, "Why Every Business
Will Be Like Show Business," writes: "Hollywood has mutated from an industry
of classic huge, vertically integrated corporations into the worlds best example of
a network economy. Eventually, every knowledge-intensive industry will end up
in the same flattened, atomized state. Hollywood just has gotten there first."
Silicon Valley is not far behind. The ICE businessesinformation, communication,
and entertainmentall rely on speed and flexibility to survive in a self-made speedy
and flexible environment. Things move so fast that even a corporationany
corporationseems too rigid and staid. You cant alter bureaucratic structure fast
enough, so dont even build one to begin with.
Networks are immensely turbulent and uncertain. The prospect of constantly
tearing down what is now working will make future shock seem tame. As
creatures of habit we will challenge the need to undo established successes. We
are sure to find exhausting the constant, fierce birthing of so much that is new.
The network economy is so primed to generate self-making newness that we may
experience this ceaseless tide of birth as a type of violence.
In a poetic sense, the prime goal of the new economy is to undocompany by
company, industry by industrythe industrial economy.
In reality, of course, the industrial cortex cannot be undone. But a larger web of
new, more agile, more tightly linked organizations can be woven around it. These
upstart firms bank on constant change and flux.
Change itself is no news, however. Ordinary change triggers yawns. Most change
is mere churn, a random disposable newness that accomplishes little. Churn is the
status quo for these times. At the other extreme, there is change so radical that it
topples the tower. Like inventions that fail because they are way ahead of their
times, it is possible to reach too far with change.
What the network economy coaxes forth is a selective flux. The right kind of
change, in the right doses. In almost all respects this kind of change is what we
mean by innovation.
The word "innovation" is so common now that its true meaning is hidden. A truly
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-8.html (4 of 9) [12/10/2006 8:47:53 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 8: No Harmony All Flux

innovative step is neither too staid and obvious, nor too far out. The innovative
step is change that is neither random directionless churn, nor so outrageous that it
cant be appreciated. We wouldnt properly call just another variation of something
an innovation. We also wouldnt call a shift to something that only worked in
theory, but not practice, or that required a massive change in everyone elses
behavior to work, an innovation.
A real innovation is sufficiently different to be dangerous. It is change just this
side of being ludicrous. It skirts the edge of the disaster, without going over. Real
innovation is scary. It is anything but harmonious.
The selective flux of innovation permeates the network economy the way
efficiency permeated the industrial economy. The innovative flux is not merely
dedicated to devising more interesting products, although that is its everyday
chore. Innovation and flux saturate the entire emerging space of the new economy.
Innovation premiers in:
New products
New categories of products
New methods to make old and new products
New types of organizations to make products
New industries
New economies
All of these will twist and turn as change, dangerous change, spirals through them.
This is why there is such a maniacal fuss about innovation. When management
gurus drone on about the imperative of innovation, they are right. Firms still need
excellence, quality of service, reorganization, and real time, but nothing quite
embodies the ultimate long-term task in this new economy as the tornado of
innovation.

Because large systems must tread
a path between the ossification of
order and the destruction of
chaos, networks tend to be in a
constant state of turmoil and flux.

This is where life lives, between the rigid death of planned order and the
degeneration of chaos. Too much change can get out of hand, and too many
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-8.html (5 of 9) [12/10/2006 8:47:53 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 8: No Harmony All Flux

ruleseven new rulescan lead to paralysis. The best systems have this living quality
of few rules and near chaos. There is enough binding agreement between members
that they dont fall into anarchy, yet redundancy, waste, incomplete
communications, and inefficiency are rife.
My own involvement in groups that launched successful change, and my
secondhand knowledge of many, many others involved in world-changing
innovation, convinces me that all of these ensembles teetered on the brink of
chaos at their peak performance. Whatever front they put up to the public or
investors, behind the scenes most of the group ran around screaming "Its
pathologically out of control here!" Every organization is dysfunctional to some
degree, but innovative organizations, in their moment of glory, tend to slide
toward uncoordinated communication, furious bouts of genius, and lifethreatening disorganization. Everyone involved swears they will institute just
enough structure to prevent flameout in the future, but Ive never seen radical
innovation emerge from an outfit that wasnt halfway to unraveling at the epicenter
of change. Most of the studies of optimal evolution in complex systems confirm
this view. The price for progressive change in maximum doses is a dangerous (and
thrilling) ride to the edge of disruption.
Although many groups experience these grand moments when creativity flows
and things get done well, the holy grail in business and life is to find ways to
sustain these periods of supreme balance. Sustaining innovation is particularly
tricky since it flows out of creative disequilibrium.
To achieve sustainable innovation you need to seek persistent disequilibrium.
To seek persistent disequilibrium means that one must chase after disruption
without succumbing to it, or retreating from it.
A company, institution, or individual must remain perched in an almost-falling
state. In this precarious position it is inclined to fall, but continually catches itself
and never quite topples. Nor does it anchor itself so that it cannot tip. It sort of
skips along within reach of disaster, but uses the power of falling to propel itself
forward with grace. A lot of people compare it to surfing; you ride a wave, which
is constantly tumbling, and perched on top of this continually disintegrating hill of
water, you harness its turbulence into forward motion.
Innovation is hard to institutionalize. It often needs to bend the rules of its own
creation. Indeed, by definition innovation means to break away from established
patterns, which means that it tends to jump over formulas. In periods of severe
flux, such as the transition we are now in between a resource-based economy and
a connected-knowledge one, change enters other levels.
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-8.html (6 of 9) [12/10/2006 8:47:53 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 8: No Harmony All Flux

Change comes in various wavelengths. There are changes in the game,
changes in the rules of the game, and changes in how the rules are changed.
The first levelchanges in the gameproduces the kind of changes now visible: new
winners and losers. New businesses. New heroes. We see the rise of Wal-Marts,
and of Nucor steelmaking.
The second levelchanges in the rules of the gameproduces new kinds of business,
new sectors of the economy, new kinds of games. From this type of change comes
the Microsofts and Amazon.coms.
The third level of change, which we are now entering, whips up changes in how
change happens. Change changes itself. While the new economy provokes change
in the first two levelsall those new business and business sectorsits deepest
consequence is the way it alters change. Change accelerates itself. It morphs into
creative destruction. It induces flux. It disperses into a field effect, so you cant
pinpoint causes. It overturns the old ways of change.
Change in technological systems is becoming more biological. This will take a lot
of getting used to. Networks actually grow. Evolution can really be imported into
machines. Technological immune systems can be used to control computer
viruses. This neobiologicalism seeps directly into our new economy. More and
more, biological metaphors are useful economic metaphors.
The image of the economy as something alive is powerful. And it is hardly New
Age hokum. Adam Smith himself alluded to aliveness with his unseen "hand."
Karl Marx often referred to the organic nature of the economy. Even the legendary
no-nonsense economist Alfred Marshall wrote in 1948 that "the Mecca of the
economist lies in economic biology." Marshall was writing at the peak of the
industrial economy. The first stirrings of the coming power of information were
just being felt.
Living systems are notoriously hard to model and theorize about, and even more
difficult to predict. Until very recently economics has gravitated to an
understanding that settled on an equilibrium, primarily because anything more
complex was impossible to calculate. Ironically, the very same computer
technology, which has roused flux in the economy, is now used to model it. With
powerful chips, dynamic, learning, self-feeding theories of the economy can be
mapped out.
Both in our understanding of it, and in reality, the network economy is a place that
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-8.html (7 of 9) [12/10/2006 8:47:53 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 8: No Harmony All Flux

harbors little harmony or stasis. Instead, it is a system that will increasingly
demand flux and innovation. The art of judicious change, of the dangerous
difference, will be rewarded in full.

Strategies
Skate to the edge of chaos. Pay the price of radical churn: endorse redundancy,
inefficiency, and set the neatniks up in arms. If people are not complaining about
how chaotic the place is, youve got a problem. It isnt necessary that the whole
organization be in chaos (one hopes the accounting department is spared), but that
key parts are. The duty may want to be rotated. Realistically, disequilibrium is
very difficult to maintain.
Exploit flux instead of outlawing it. The traditional practice of telephony tries to
eliminate noise and uncertainty by creating an optimally short and uninterrupted
circuit between caller and callee. It assumes a stable route. The internet, on the
other hand, counts on chaotic change, and it will overtake the entire phone system
soon. It sends messages (including voice) in fragmented bits scattered along
redundant routes, and then resends whatever the haphazard process loses to noisy
lines. Rather than prohibit errors, network logic assumes errors and learns from
the chaotic flux. Find where the flux is, and ride it.
You cant install complexity. Networks are biased against large-scale drastic
change. The only way to implement a large new system is to grow it. You cant
install it. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia tried to install capitalism,
but this complex system couldnt be installed; it had to be grown. The network
economy favors assembling large organizations from many smaller ones that keep
their autonomy within the large. Networks, too, need to be grown, rather than
installed. They need to accumulate over time. To grow a large network, one needs
to start with a small network that works, then add more sophisticated nodes and
levels to it. Every successful large system was once a successful small system.
Preserve the core, and let the rest flux. In their wonderful bestseller Built to
Last, authors James Collins and Jerry Porras make a convincing argument that
long-lived companies are able to thrive 50 years or more by retaining a very small
heart of unchanging values, and then stimulating progress in everything else. At
times "everything" includes changing the business the company operates in,
migrating, say, from mining to insurance. Outside the core of values, nothing
should be exempt from flux. Nothing.
continue...
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-8.html (8 of 9) [12/10/2006 8:47:53 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 8: No Harmony All Flux

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-8.html (9 of 9) [12/10/2006 8:47:53 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
Chapter 9: RELATIONSHIP TECH
Start with Technology, End with Trust
The central economic imperative of the industrial age was to increase
productivity. Every aspect of an industrial firmfrom its machines to its
organizational structurewas tailored to enhance the efficiency of economic
production. But today productivity is a nearly meaningless byproduct in the
network economy.
The central economic imperative of the network economy is to amplify
relationships.
Every aspect of a networked firmfrom its hardware to its distributed organizationis
created to increase the quantity and quality of economic relationships.
The network is a structure to generate relationships. Networks haul relations the
way rivers once hauled freight. When everything is connected to everything else,
relationships are rampant. Each variety of connection in a network begets a
relationship. Between firms and other firms. Between firms and customers.
Between customers and the government. Between customers and other customers.
Between employees and other firms employees. Between customers and
machines. Between machines and machines, objects and objects, objects and
customers. There is no end to the complexity and subtlety of relationships
spawned in a network economy.
Each of these types of relationship has its own specific dynamics and quirks. And
each is nurtured by a particular type of technology. The technologies of jelly bean
chip and boundless bandwidth are, in the end, relationship technologies. "We need
to shift away from the notion of technology managing information and toward the
idea of technology as a medium of relationships," writes Michael Schrage in
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (1 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

Shared Minds, a book about the new technologies of collaboration. Despite the
billions of bits that information hardware can process in a second, the only matter
of consequence silicon produces are relationships.
Of course reputation and trust have been essential in all economies of the past, so
whats new? Only two things:
With the decreased importance of productivity, relationships and their
allies become the main economic event.
● Telecommunications and globalism are intensifying, increasing, and
transforming the ordinary state of relationships into an excited state of
hyperrelationsover long distances, all the time, all places, all ways. Its not
Kansas anymore; its Oz.
●

Relationships among more than two people can be structured as hierarchies or as
networks. In hierarchies, members are ranked in privilege relative to one another;
in networks, members relate as peerscounterparts of similar power and
opportunity. In previous ages the most intelligent way to construct a complex
organization in the absence of plentiful information was to build a hierarchy. Rank
is a clever and workable substitute for ubiquitous real-time information. When
information is scarce, follow orders.
When information is plentiful, peers take over.
In fact, as reliable information becomes common, almost nothing can stop peers
from taking over. As computers and communications unloose a million bits of
information in every dimension, we see peerages form in every dimension. Email
and voice mail have brought peerage pressure to corporations. The flattening
effect of network technologies and the subsequent turmoil in the organization of
business firms is well recognized. But in many ways the emerging peerlike
relationship between boss and staff is probably the least interesting and least
important of all the relational changes now taking place.
More consequential is the relation between customer and firm, which is yielding
to the peer effect. More important still is the relation between firm and firm,
which is shifting rapidly to a web of overlapping nets. Still more vital is the lateral
relation between customer and customer, which is just beginning to brew. Finally,
the elevated relation between customers (rather than citizens) and the rest of
society, a relation that is just now being defined, may be the most important of all,
as economics elbows its way into every activity. As an example of expanding
relationships, consider the traditional relationship between customer and a firm,
roles that have been around forever. In the network economy the separation
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (2 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

between customers and a firms employees often vanishes.
When you pump your own gas at the filling station, are you working for the gas
station or for yourself? Are all those people waiting in line behind the ATM
machine more highly evolved bank customers or just nonpaid bank tellers? When
you take a pregnancy test at home, are you a savvy self-helper, or part of the
HMOs plan to reduce costs? The answer, of course, is both. When everyone is
linked into a web, its impossible to tell which side you are on.
Web sites and 800 numbers can invite customers into the internal knowledge
banks of a company to almost the same degree of "inside" that employees
stationed on the other side of the line enjoy. Many technical companies post the
same technical information and diagnostic guidelines on their help sites that their
own support professionals work from when you call their hotline. You can have
someone trained to look up and then read troubleshooting answers for you, or if
you are in a hurry, you can try to find it yourself. Whos working for whom?
At the same time the complexity of an employee contract, particularly in high-tech
fields, is quickly approaching the complexity of a contract with an outside vendor.
Stock options, vestment periods, a thousand insurance and benefit combinations,
severance clauses, noncompete agreements, performance goalseach one uniquely
negotiated for each person. A highly paid technical employee becomes in essence
a permanent consultant. He or she is an outsider on staff.
Outsiders act as employees, employees act as outsiders. New relationships
blur the roles of employees and customers to the point of unity. They reveal
the customer and company as one.
This close coevolution between users and producers is more than poetry. There is
a very real sense in which the owners of the phone network sell nothing at all but
the opportunity for customers to have conversations among
themselvesconversations which the users themselves create. You could say the
phone companies cocreate phone service. This blurring between origin and end
spills over into the birth of online services, such as AOL, where most of what is
now sold is being created by the customers themselves in the form of postings and
chat. It took years for AOL to figure this out; they initially wanted to follow
industrial logic and sell downloadable information created at great expense by
professionals. But once they realized that the customers acted like employees by
making the goods themselves, the online companies started making money.
The net continues to break down the old relationships between producers of goods
and consumers of services. Now, producers consume and consumers produce.
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (3 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

In the network economy, producing and consuming fuse into a single verb:
prosuming.
"Prosumer" is a term coined by Alvin Toffler in 1970 in his still-prescient book
Future Shock. (Toffler first found his insights as afuturist while working for the
telephone networks.) Today prosumers are everywhere, from restaurants where
you assemble your own dinner, to medical self-care arenas, where you serve as
doctor and patient.
The future of prosumerism can be seen most clearly online, where some of the
very best stuff is produced by the people who consume it. In a multiplayer game
like Ultima Online, you get a world with a view and some tools and then youre on
your own to make it exciting. You invent your own character, develop his or her
clothing or uniform, acquire unique powers, and build the surrounding history. All
the other thousands of characters you interact with have to be sculpted by other
prosumers. The adventures that unfurl are cocreated entirely by the participants.
Like a real small town, the joint experiencewhich is all that is being soldis
produced by those who experience it.
These eager world makers could be viewed as nonpaid content makers; in fact,
they will pay you to let them make things. But the same world could also be
viewed as full of customers who have been given tools with which they can
complete a product to their own picky specifications. They are rolling their own,
just as they like. In the new economy-speak, this is known as mass customization.
The premise of mass customization is simple. Technology allows us to target the
specifications of a product to a smaller and smaller group of people. First we can
make Barbie dolls in the millions. Then with more flexible machinery and
computer-generated target marketing we can make ethnic Barbies, in the hundreds
of thousands. Then with improved market research and advanced communications
we can make subculture Barbies, biker and grunge Barbies in the thousands.
Eventually, with the right network technology, we can make the personal Barbie,
the Barbie of you. In fact there is a company in Littleton, Colorado, that currently
makes the "My Twinn" baby doll to look like the dolls owner. The dolls eye and
hair color and hair style are matched to a photo of the child who will own it.
The most interesting aspect of prosuming and mass customizationof this new
relationship between the customer and the firmis that because customers have a
hand in the creation of the product they are more likely to be satisfied with the
final result. They have taught the firm how to please them, and the firm now has a
customer with a much fuller relationship with them than before.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (4 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

But creating a product for "a niche of one" is only a small part of the
transformation of the customer relationship. (Detroit car makers learned long ago
to create customized cars, but that was all they learned.) Network technologies
such as data mining, smart cards, and recommendation engines are escalating the
levels of relationships available to customers.
The drive to relate to the consumer intimately, to the point of encouraging
prosuming, can be articulated as a series of progressive goals:
1) to create what the customer wants
2) to remember what the customer wants
3) to anticipate what the customer wants
4) finally, to change what the customer wants
Each of the missions elevates the firms commitment to the customer and raises the
customers involvement with the firm.
To create what the customer wants. Sometimes this will mean simple
customization: You want a vacation experience unlike anyone elses. Sometimes
this will mean mass customization: You want a pair of jeans that fit your unusual
leg shape at the same price as a regular pair of jeans. Sometimes mass
customization is not what you want. The huge fashion industry makes its fortune
on peoples dependable desire for wearing what everyone else is wearing.
Sometimes what you want is semicustomized: You read the New York Times
because everyone else is reading it, but you dont read the sports section or the
obits. You want not the Daily Me, but the Daily You and Me, the publication your
12 closest friends read.
A huge tide of information and trust must flow between users and creators in order
to create exactly what the customer wants. The interface technology must be clear
and simple for people to convey their desires. The nightmarish logistics of
delivery and production must be managed with exactness. The most difficult
aspect of this mission may not be the order form but the manufacturing; anything
that involves atoms is much harder to customize than first thought. But any
solutions surely involve networked technologies.
To remember what a customer wants. A majority of the things we do, we do
repetitively. We engage in the same tasks every day, or once a week, or every now
and then. Things done iteratively have different dynamics from things done once.
Little events become important. We bristle at having to remember our password
again, or having to recite how we like our coffee one more time, or having to
explain again what we dont like about bathing suits. Humans who learn our quirks
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (5 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

(and they must be learned) earn our favor. Firms who learn our quirks will also
earn our favor.
The technology of tracking and interpreting our whims heightens the relationships
between firm and consumer. The firm must expend great effort to remember your
preferences, but you also expend effort in teaching them so they can remember.
And the remembering must be intelligent. You order the same espresso every day,
except when its cold out, and then you order a latte. The relationship tech has to
be robust enough to be taught these distinctions.
Don Peppers and Martha Rogers, authors of the amazingly insightful Enterprise
One to One, state: "A Learning Relationship between a customer and an enterprise
gets smarter and smarter with every individual interaction, defining in ever more
detail the customers own individual needs and tastes. Every time a customer
orders her groceries by calling up last weeks list and updating it, for instance, she
is in effect teaching the service more about the products she buys and the rate at
which she consumes them." In reward for the firms effort at being taught, the firm
and the customer develop a committed relationship. Peppers and Rogers continue:
"The shopping service will develop a knowledge of this particular customer that is
virtually impossible for a competitive shopping service to duplicate, providing an
impregnable lock on the customers loyalty." At the same time, the customer has
invested so much in the relationship that the cost of switching to another vendor
gets steeper by the day. Peppers and Rogers: "When the florist sends a note
reminding you of your mothers birthday, and offers to deliver flowers again this
year to the same address and charged against the same credit card you used with
the florist last year, what are the chances that you will pick up the phone and try to
find a cheaper florist?"
Since a relationship involves two members investing in it, its value increases
twice as fast as ones investment.
The cost of switching relationships is high. Leaving, you surrender twice. You
give up all that the other has put into the relationship, and you give up your own
investment. In other words, the cost of loyalty is low. Thus we see the huge
success of frequent flyer and frequent buyer programs, made possible by the
coinvestment that airlines and supermarkets put into them. Affiliation cards are
another example of the relationship extension; the costs of tracking purchases are
so low compared to the value of belongingfor both sidesthat it pays to invent other
ways to spread the idea. And the phone companies attempts at "friends of friends"
calling circles are likewise clever experiments in exploiting networked
relationships.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (6 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

Smarter relationship technology, or "R-tech" as economist Albert Bressand calls
it, will bind the connections between customers and firms more tightly still. An
emerging standard called P3P offers a uniform way to store an individuals profile
containing name, address, and so forth as well as preferences, including
preferences of what they will reveal. If you shop a lot you will carry a "passport
profile" based on the P3P protocol (or one similar) encased in your smart card or
online in a browser. You exchange it with the vendor during a commercial
transaction. The passport technology will help firms remember you as you teach
them how to serve you and earn your favor.
The portability of preferences is a big deal. As the net creeps into yet more aspects
of commerce, the ability to track identities and desires across different systems
will be key. The Ritz-Carlton Hotel is justifiably proud of its ability to customize
rooms for you anywhere in its thirty-one-hotel chain, without having to ask you.
Some airlines can do the same. That still leaves a lot of room for success in
creating relationships in the network economy as a whole.
To anticipate what a customer wants. Creating tailored products for people is the
first step of R-tech. The second is recalling their preferences intelligently. The
third step is anticipating what theyll want even before they articulate it. Thats a
measure of any great relationship. You can boast you really know someone when
you can say, "I know shell love this book!"
The most elemental form of anticipatory tech extrapolates likes and dislikes from
the customers past usage patterns. But the most powerful forms of R-tech rely on
the swarm of other customers and the latent relationships between them to
anticipate desires. A great example of this social R-tech was developed by Firefly,
a web-based recommendation engine (recently sold to Microsoft). Heres how it
works in brief: I tell MyLaunch, Fireflys music vendor, my ten favorite music
albums. It takes my recommendations and compares them with the top ten
recommendations of 500,000 other Firefly members interested in music. Firefly
then figures out where in "taste space" I belong. It places me near the few people
who like the same albums I do. Despite an overlap of taste with them there will be
a few albums my neighbors mentioned that I did not. Firefly will alert me to those
albums, and conversely will tell my taste neighbors about the albums I mentioned
that they had not. These are the albums I should try because it anticipates I will
like them.
Its remarkable how well this simple system works. I eerily recommended great
albums that I liked. There are many refinements to increase its power. I can
"teach" the system by grading the results it gave me. Perhaps it recommended Pete
Seeger because I named Bob Dylan as a favorite. But say I happen to already

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (7 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

know Seegers work and cant stand him, so I tell it to forget Seeger (and thus
Seeger-likes). Its now smarter. I can further locate my space with more precision
by rating as many albums as I wish, indicating my love or hate of them. (A strong
negative rating is just as useful as a strong positive rating.) Because it is the web, I
also have the option of listening to music selections to refresh my memory or
evaluate recommended candidates.

People who share small
preferences for particular books
or movies in a single "taste space"
can use thier collaborative sorting
to aid them in future purchases.

The real power of this system lies not in mere recommendation, but in its ability to
create relationships among its 3 million registered users. It allows members to link
up with their taste-neighbors. All the fans of ambient music, or early Seattle
grunge, are encouraged to strike up conversations in "venues," or start mail lists,
or simply introduce themselves. Out of this technology is born yet another
relationship: self-identity.
Most listeners dont have easily classifiable tastes. Theyre fans of Nirvana, U2,
The Beatles, Joni Mitchell, and Nine Inch Nails. Theyll have neighbors in an
obscure unnamed spacethe Beatles/U2/NineInchNails space. Through Firefly,
these folks can identify their tastes by the microcommunity of like-minded folks
they create for themselves. What Firefly can do with music, it can also do with
books. And movies. And web pages. (Firefly recently spun each of these domains
out to separate partners.) They are rated in the same way, with equally useful
results. But now the combined media space is tremendously potent. Weird
subcultures can be detected long before they have a name. Readers of Anne Rice
vampire novels who like country and western music and Woody Allen movies
suddenly realize they are a group! Self-recognition is the first step toward
influence.
Online booksellers such as Amazon.com and Barnes and Noble are using similar
R-technology to sell more books, and to make customers smarter shoppers.
Amazon derives its collaborative recommendations from customers who have a
purchasing behavior similar to yours. Based on what you have bought in the past,
and what others have bought in the past, Amazon advises: Dear reader, you should
like these titles. And, they are usually right. In fact, their recommendations are so
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (8 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

handy that they are Amazons prime marketing mechanism and their chief source
of revenue growth. According to company spokespersons, "significant" numbers
of users buy additional bookson impulsebecause of the co-recommendations that
pop up when you inspect a book.
Evan Schwartz, author of Webonomics, goes so far as to suggest that firms such as
Amazon should be viewed as primarily selling intangible relationships. "Amazon
should not be compared to actual stores selling books. Rather . . . the value that
Amazon adds is in the reviews, the recommendations, the advice, the information
about new and upcoming releases, the user interface, the community interest
around certain subjects. Yes, Amazon will arrange to deliver the book to your
door, but you as a customer are really paying them for the information that led to
your purchase." When you log on to Amazon you get a relationship generator, one
that increasingly knows you better.
The beauty of network logic is that the mechanics of this software does not rely on
artificial intelligence, or AI. Rather the collaborative work is done by pooling the
teaching that each person would do alone into one distributed base. Its an example
of dumb power. Lots of people teaching a dumb program, but all connected
together, producing useful intelligence. The strength of the network is built by the
slim bits of information that each member is willing to share. Sometimes thats all
it takes.
The web is a hotbed of innovations in R-tech. If you had success in a search and
are willing for that information to be spread collectively to others, this lateral
relationship can improve the search function for everyone. Sometimes called
"collaborative filtering" these kinds of social network functions will spread widely
within the web itself, as well as within companies and small work groups.
As in other technological evolutions, relationship tech will begin its
innovation in the avant garde, then work back to the familiar.
R-tech first appears in the world of the web, but will gradually infiltrate the world
of canned goods and sports equipment, as well as TV shows and vacation spots.
Eventually it reaches the final stage in the progression of customer relations:
To change what a customer wants. The ongoing tango between customer and
provider draws them together until their identities disappear at times. This is
especially true in frontier arenas, where expertise is usually in short supply. At
first there is no authority on what customers want or what providers should
deliveras in these early days of the web and e-commerce. Expertise has to be
developed jointly, coevolved. Customers must be trained and educated by the
company to teach them what they need, and then the company is trained and
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (9 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

educated by the customers. We saw precisely this equation in the pioneer days of
online conferencing about a decade ago. When email and chat began, no one knew
the difference between great email and okay email, between fabulous chat areas
and average chat areas. The best online companies learned all they knew from
their first customers. But the customers, too, had little expertise of what to expect
and so relied on the visions and vaporware suggested by the companies. Customer
and company educated each other on what was possible.
Good products and services are cocreated: The desires of customers grow out of
what is possible, and what is possible is made real by companies following new
customer desires. Because creation in a network is a cocreation, a prosumptive act,
a multifaceted relationship must exist between the cocreators.
Cocreation and prosumption require an information peerage. Information must
flow symmetrically to all nodes. In the industrial society, the balance of
information inevitably sided with corporations. They had centralized knowledge
while the customer had only their own solo experience divorced from that of all
but a few friends. The coming network economy has changed that. Each new layer
of complexity and technology shifts the action toward the individual.
The intent of networked technology is to make the customer smarter. This may
require sharing previously proprietary knowledge with the customer. It may also
be as simple as sharing what the company knows about the customer with the
customer herself.
R-tech tries to rebalance the traditional asymmetrical flow of information, so that
the customer learns as fast as the firm (and so the firm learns as fast as the
customer). At first the idea of focusing on "learning customers" instead of the
"learning company" seems misplaced. But it is part of the larger shift away from a
view of the firm as a standalone unit and toward a view of the firm as an
interacting node in a much larger networka diffuse node made up of customers as
well as employees.
Letting the customer learn with help from the firm is not the only way to make the
customer smarter. The other way is to reverse the usual flow of information in the
market. John Hagel, co-author of Net Gain, says, "Instead of helping your firm
capture as much information about the customer as you can, you want the
customer to capture as much information about themselves as they can." And you
want customers to capture as much information about the firms they are dealing
with as well. There are several ways on the web to bias information toward the
customer. Among the most exciting innovations are new vendors that send a bot
around to comparison shop for you. If thirty music retailers online offer the
soundtrack to the movie Titanic for sale, web sites such as Junglee or Jango will
collect the offers from each vendor, and rank them for you. But the vendors are
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (10 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

calling the shots; they craft the offer, keep the data of requests, and drive the sale.
By reversing the direction of information flow one can create a "reverse market."
In a reverse market (already set by a few web sites), the customer dictates the
terms of sale. You say, "Id like to buy a Titanic CD for $10, new." You broadcast
your offer into the web, and then the vendors come to you. This works best at first
for high-ticket items such as cars, insurance, and mortgages. "Id like a $120,000
thirty-year mortgage for my house in San Jose. I can pay $1,000 per month. Do I
have any takers?" You set the terms, keep the data, and drive the transaction.
Technology, of course, means that much of this negotiation happens in the
background via agents and so forth; you dont have to do the haggling yourself.
But the R-shift moves the capture of information into the hands of customers from
those of the vendors. It makes the customer smarter.
And whoever has the smartest customers wins.
The third way to make the customer smarter is by connecting customers into a
collective intelligence.
When personal computers first entered the marketplace in the mid 1970s, user
groups sprung up everywhere to assist the perplexed. Anyone could attend a
monthly meeting and swap useful tips about how to set up a printer, or get an
upgrade program to work. It was all informal, and free, and democratic; those who
knew, told; those who didnt know, asked questions and took notes. Each specific
computer platform spawned local user groups in major cities. There were user
groups for "orphan" equipment such as Amigas, and video game consoles, and of
course for Macs and DOS-based PCs. Some user groups grew to have tens of
thousands of members and some ran their own free software emporiums and had
budgets in the millions of dollars.

Firms that encourage customers
to talk to each other, to form
affinity groups and hobby tribes,
will breed smarter and more loyal
customers while creating smarter
products and services.

User groups were seen by the outside world as evidence of the lousy state of the
computer industry. Manuals were horrible, interfaces unfriendly. Critics

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (11 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

complained that you didnt need to join a user group to get your TV up and
running, or to turn your dishwasher on. Yet for many computer wannabees, the
shared knowledge of a user group was essential in starting the journey into
computerdom, or later onto the net and the web.
In reality, user groups were not a sign of failure but a sign of intelligence. They
were a means of making the consumer smarter. Some computer companies caught
on to this reality early and made regular visits to the bigger user groups to answer
questions and hear complaints and pick up suggestions. The user group, although
independent and nonprofit, became part of the computer companies extended self.
Today there are still some 2,000 Mac and PC user groups that offer regular
meetings in the United States (and an equal number internationally). The Berkeley
Mac User Group still boasts 10,000 members, and weekly meetings. Yet most user
group action has shifted to the online space. Web sites with attendant conversation
areas, FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) archives, mail lists, and public bulletin
boards all keep the distributed exchange of knowledge going.
A user group is a peerage of responsibility. Group members take education into
their own hands, and distribute the job of keeping up among themselves. Its long
been appreciated that the best and most useful working knowledge about technical
gear comes out of user groups. User groups are now a regular feature for
avocations such as scuba diving, bicycling, saltwater aquariums, hot-rod cars, or
any hobby where technological change seems to outrun understanding.
The most fanatical of user groups can be thought of as "hobby tribes," a phrase
coined by science fiction writer David Brin. Hobby tribes are very informed, very
connected, very smart customers. They band their enthusiasms together and
become the experts. In some smaller niches they become the market, too.
Expertise now resides in fanatical customers. The worlds best experts on your
product or service dont work for your company. They are your customers, or
a hobby tribe.
Companies need user groups almost as much as users need them. User groups are
better than advertising when customers are happy, and worse than cancer when
they are not. Used properly, aficionados can make or break products.
The network economy has the potential to enable a civilization of aficionados. As
customers get smarter, the locus of expertise shifts toward affiliates and homebrew groups, and away from large corporations or the solo academic professional.
If you really want to know what works, or where to find it, ask a hobby tribe. And
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (12 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

not just in the realm of high-tech knowledge. All knowledge is pooling into
aficionados. Because of shared obsessions among horse lovers, there are more
horseshoers working today than a hundred years ago, in the age of cowboys. There
are more blacksmiths making swords and chain mail armor this year than ever
worked in the medieval past. A network of aficionados is already here.
The net tends to dismantle authority and shift its allegiance to peer groups. The
cultural life in a network economy will not emanate from academia, or the cubicle
of corporations, or even primetime media. Rather, it will reside in the small
communities of interest known as fans, and zines, and subcultures. In Future
Shock Alvin Toffler setsthe stage: "Like a bullet smashing into a pane of glass,
industrialism shatters societies, splitting them up into thousands of specialized
agencies . . . each subdivided into smaller and still more specialized subunits. A
host of subcults spring up; rodeo riders, Black Muslims, motorcyclists, skinheads,
and all the rest." That initial shatter is now several thousands of subcultures. For
every obsession in the world, there is now a web site. What industrialization began
by shattering, the network economy completes by weaving together and serving
with great attention. The web of broken shards is now the big picture.
Information shifts toward the peerage of customers, so does responsibility for
success. The net demands wiser customers.
The advent of relationship technologies on the net creates a larger role for the
customer, and it puts more demands on the consumer, too. None of this
enlargement of relationships can happen unless there are vast amounts of trust all
around. "The new economy begins with technology and ends with trust," says
Alan Weber, founder of the new economy business magazine Fast Company.
If you send all your workers home to telecommute, youll need a whopping lot of
trust between you and your workers for that relocation to succeed. If I tell Firefly
all the books I read, all the movies I watch, and all the web sites I visit, I will
require a high degree of trust from them. If Compaq lets me delve into its
expensively compiled knowledge database of known bugs and problems with
certain computer parts, it has to trust me.
Trust is a peculiar quality. It cant be bought. It cant be downloaded. It cant be
instanta startling fact in an instant culture. It can only accumulate very slowly,
over multiple iterations. But it can disappear in a blink. Alan Weber compares its
accretion to a conversation: "The most important work in the new economy is
creating conversations. Good conversations are about identity. They reveal who
we are to others. And for that reason, they depend on bedrock human qualities:
authenticity, character, integrity. In the end, conversation comes down to trust."
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (13 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

A conversation is a pretty good model for understanding what is going on in the
network economy. Some conversations are short, abrupt exchanges of minimal
data; some are antagonistic, some are periodic, some are continuous, some are
long-distance, some are face to face. A back-and-forth exchange starts between
two people, and then spills over to several people, and as the conversation
becomes multipronged and divergent, it gathers in more and more players.
Eventually there are conversations between firms and objects as well as people, as
more of the worlds inanimate artifacts become connected. Increased animation
increases the number or times of interaction, and the frequency of conversation.
The more interactions, the more important learning becomes, the more essential
relationships become, the more trust becomes a factor. Trust becomes what Weber
calls "a business imperative."
But for all the talk of the importance of trust, it only comes at a price. It comes
slow and it always comes awkwardly. "Trust can be messy, painful, difficult to
achieve, and easy to violate," writes Weber. "Trust is tough because it is always
linked to vulnerability, conflict, and ambiguity. For managers steeped in
rationalism, hierarchies, rule-based decision making, and authority based on titles,
this triad of vulnerability, conflict, and ambiguity threatens a loss of control."
The technologies of relationships will not ease this fear or pain. They can
strengthen and diversify relationships and trust, but not make them automatic,
easy, or instant. At the forefront in the chore to cultivate trustas a business
imperativestands the rugged hurdle of privacy. No other issue summarizes the
unique opportunities and challenges of the network economy as much as privacy
does.
Privacy concerns were once exclusively aimed at Big Brother government, but net
residents quickly realized that commercial entitiesthe little brothers on the netwere
more worrisome. James Gleick, a technology correspondent for the New York
Times put it this way: "Whatever the Government may know about us, it seems
that the network itselfthat ever-growing complex of connections and
computerswill know more. And no matter how much we bristle at the idea, we
nevertheless seem to want services that the network can provide only if it knows."
An entire book could be written about the fundamental conversation between what
we want to know about others and what we want others and the net itself to know
about us. But I will make only a single point about privacy in space of an
emerging new economy:
Privacy is a type of conversation. Firms should view privacy not as some

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (14 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

inconvenient obsession of customers that must be snuck around but more as a
way to cultivate a genuine relationship.
The standard rejoinder by firms to objections from customers for more personal
information is, "The more you tell us, the better we can serve you." This is true,
but not sufficient. An individual cant comfortably divulge unless there is trust.
Take the trust many people feel in a small town. The interesting thing about a
small town is that the old lady who lived across the street from you knew every
move you made. She knew who came to visit you and what time they left. From
your routine she knew where you went, and why you were late. Two things kept
this knowledge from being offensive: 1) When you were out, she kept an eye on
your place, and 2) you knew everything about her. You knew who came to visit
her and where she went (and while she was gone you kept an eye on her place).
More important, you knew that she knew. You were aware that she kept an eye on
you, and she knew that you watched her. There was a symmetry to your joint
knowledge. There was a type of understanding, of agreement. She wasnt going to
rifle through your mailbox, and neither would you peek in hers, but if you had a
party and someone passed out on the porch, you could count on the neighborhood
knowing about it the next day. And vice versa. The watchers are watched.
One of chief chores in the network economy is to restore the symmetry of
knowledge.
For trust to bloom, customers need to know who knows about them, and the full
details of what they know. They have to have knowledge about the knower equal
to what the knower knows about them. I would be a lot more comfortable with
what the credit companies knew about me if I knew with great accuracy what they
knew about me, how they know it, and who else they told. And Id be even more at
ease if I derived some compensation for the value they get for knowing about me.
Personally, Im happy for anyone to track all my activities 24 hours a day, as long
as I have a full account of where that information goes and I get paid for it. If I
know who the watchers are, and they establish a relationship with me (in cash,
discounts, useful information, or superior service, or otherwise), then that
symmetry becomes an asset to me and to them.
We see the first inklings of this trust machinery in protocols such as Truste. Truste
was founded in 1995 as a nonprofit consortium of web sites and privacy advocates
to enhance privacy relationships in the online marketspace. They have developed
an information standard also called Truste. The first stage is a system of simple
badges posted on the front pages of web sites. These seals alert visitorsbefore they
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (15 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

enterof the sites privacy policies. The badges declare that either:
We keep no records of anyones visit. Or,
● We keep records but only use them ourselves. We know who you are so
that when you return we can show you whats new, or tailor content to your
desires, or make purchase transactions easier and simplified. Or,
● We keep records, which we use ourselves, but we also share knowledge
with like-minded firms that you may also like.
●

Those three broad approaches encompass most transactions; but there are as many
subvariations as there are sites. (To post the badges or seal, sites must submit to an
audit by Truste, which guarantees to the public that a site does adhere to the
policies they post.) But the seals are only labels. The real work happens behind the
scenes by means of very sophisticated R-tech.
Here is a hypothetical scenario of a visit to a Truste-approved commerce site a
couple of years hence. I visit the Gap clothing store online. They notify me that
they are a level 2 site; they remember who I am, my clothes size, and what I
bought or even inspected last time I visitedbut they dont sell that data. In exchange
for information about myself, they offer me a 10% discount. Fine with me! Makes
life easier. I visit the site of Raven Maps, the best topographical maps in the
world. They let me know that my visit with them is on a level 3 basisthey trade
my name and interests, but nothing else, with other travel-related sites, which they
conveniently list. In exchange they will throw in one free map per purchase. Since
the friends of Raven Map look very intriguing, I say yes. I visit CompUSA. They
want to know everything about me, and they will sell everything about me, level
3. In exchange, they will lease me a multimedia computer with all the bells and
whistles for free. Okay? Ummm, maybe. Then I visit ABC, the streaming video
TV place. They declare that they keep no records whatsoever. Whatever shows I
watch, only I know. They keep aggregate knowledge, which they use to lure
advertisers, but not specifics. A lot of people are attracted to this level 1 total
nonsurvelliance, despite the heavy dose of commercials, and keep coming back.
At the end of the month I get a privacy statement, similar in format to a credit card
statement. It lists all the deals and relationships I have agreed to that month and
what I can expect. It says I agreed to give the Gap particular personal information,
but that information should go no further than them. I gave a pretty detailed
personal profile to Raven and the three companies they gave it to show up on my
statement. Those three have a one-time use of my data. Raven owes me a map. In
the end I gave CompUSA my entire profile. I am owed a computer. The nine
vendors they sold my info to also show up; they have unlimited use of my profile
and CompUSA web site activities. Ill get junk mail from those nine for a whilebut
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (16 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

my new computer will be able to filter it all out! In addition, I made a deal with
the New York Times which lets them keep my reading activities, but nothing else,
for a free months subscription. Also, my statement shows that American Airlines
got my address from ABC, when they claimed level 1. Ill have to have my privacy
bot contact them and sort that "mistake" out.
Caller ID, unlisted phone numbers, unlisted email address, individual-free
aggregates, personally encrypted medical records, passport profiles, temporary
pseudonym badges, digital signatures, biometric passwords, and so on. These are
all the technologies well be using to sort out the messy business of creating
relationships and trust in a network economy.
If only we knew precisely what relationships were. Industrial productivity was
easy to measure. One could ascertain a clear numerical answer. Relationships, on
the other hand, are indefinite, fuzzy, imprecise, complex, innumerate, slippery,
multifaceted. Much like the net itself.
As we create technologies of relationships we keep running into the soft notions of
reputation, privacy, loyalty, and trust. Unlike bit or baud, theres no good definition
of what these concepts mean exactly, though we have some general ideas. Yet we
are busy engineering a network world to transmit and amplify reputations and
loyalty and trust. The hottest, hippest frontiers on the net today are the places
where these technologies are being developed.
The network economy is founded on technology, but can only be built on
relationships. It starts with chips and ends with trust.
Ultimately the worth of a technology is judged by how well it facilitates an
increase in relational activity. VR pioneer Jaron Lanier has proposed the
Connection Test: Does a technology in question connect people together? By his
evaluation telephones are good technology, while TV is not. Birth control pills
are, while nuclear power is not.
By this measure, network technology is a great deal. It has the potential to link
together all kinds of sentient beings in every imaginable way, and more. The
imperative of the network economy is to maximize the unique talents of individual
beings by means of their relationships with many others.
That means not being connected at times. Silence is often an appropriate response
in a conversation. Privacy is often advantageous in a networked world. The
dimensions of relationship extend into not knowing as well as into the known. It is
one of many mysteries in the human condition that will be wired into the
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (17 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

technologies of the network economy.

Strategies
Make customers as smart as you are. For every effort a firm makes in educating
itself about the customer, it should expend an equal effort in educating the
customer. Its a tough job being a consumer these days. Any help will be rewarded
by loyalty. If you dont educate your customer, someone else willmost likely
someone not even a competitor. Almost any technology that is used to market to
customers, such as data mining, or one-to-one techniques, can be flipped around to
provide intelligence to the customer. No one is eager for a core dump, but if you
can remember my trouser size, or suggest a movie that all my friends loved, or
sort out my insurance needs, then you are making me smarter. The rule is simple:
Whoever has the smartest customers wins.
Connect customers to customers. Nothing is as scary to many corporations as
the idea of sponsoring dens in which customers can talk to one another. Especially
if it is an effective place of communication. Like the web. "You mean," they ask
in wonder, "we should pay a million dollars to develop a web site where
customers can swap rumors and make a lot of noise? Where complaints will get
passed around and the flames of discontent fanned?" Yes, thats right. Often thats
what will happen. "Why should we pay our customers to harass us," they ask,
"when they will do that on their own?" Because there is no more powerful force in
the network economy than a league of connected customers. They will teach you
faster than you could learn any other way. They will be your smartest customers,
and, to repeat, whoever has the smartest customers wins.
Just recently E-trade, the pioneering online stock broker, took the bold step of
setting up an online chat area for its customers. Well see more smart companies do
this. Whatever tools you develop that will aid the creation of relationships
between your customers will strengthen the relationship of your customers to you.
This effort can also be thought of as Feeding the Web First.
All things being equal, choose technology that connects. Technology tradeoffs
are made daily. A device or method cannot be the fastest, cheapest, more reliable,
most universal, and smallest all at once. To excel, a tech has to favor some
dimensions over others. Now add to that list, most connected. This aspect of
technology has increasing importance, at times overshadowing such standbys as
speed and price. If you are in doubt about what technology to purchase, get the
stuff that will connect the most widely, the most often, and in the most ways.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (18 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 9: Relationship Tech

Avoid anything that resembles an island, no matter how well endowed that island
is.
Imagine your customers as employees. It is not a cheap trick to get the customer
to do what employees used to do. Its a way to make a better world! I believe that
everyone would make their own automobile if it was easy and painless. Its not.
But customers at least want to be involved at some level in the creation of what
they useparticularly complex things they use often. They can superficially be
involved by visiting a factory and watching their car being made. Or they can
conveniently order a customized list of options. Or, through network technology,
they can be brought into the process at various points. Perhaps they send the car
through the line, much as one follows a package through FedEx. Smart companies
have finally figured out that the most accurate way to get customer information,
such as a simple address, without error, is to have the customer type it themselves
right from the first. The trick will be finding where the limits of involvement are.
Customers are a lot harder to get rid of than employees! Managing intimate
customers requires more grace and skill than managing staff. But these extended
relationships are more powerful as well.
The final destiny for the future of the company often seems to be the "virtual
corporation"the corporation as a small nexus with essential functions outsourced
to subcontractors. But there is an alternative vision of an ultimate destinationthe
company that is only staffed by customers. No firm will ever reach that extreme,
but the trajectory that leads in that direction is the right one, and any step taken to
shift the balance toward relying on the relationships with customers will prove to
be an advantage.
continue...

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-9.html (19 of 19) [12/10/2006 8:47:59 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 10: Opportunities Before Efficiencies

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
Chapter 10: OPPORTUNITIES BEFORE EFFICIENCIES

Dont Solve Problems; Seek Opportunities
Until Charles Darwins discovery of evolution, life was surveyed in the present tense. Animals were probed to
see how their innards worked, plants dissected for useful magical potions, the creatures of the sea investigated
for their strange lifestyles. Biology was about how living organisms thrived day to day.
Darwin forever transformed our understanding of life by insisting that life didnt make sense without the
framework of its billion-year evolution. Darwin proved that even if all we wanted to know was how to cure
dysentery in pigs, or how best to fertilize corn, or where to look for lobsters, we had to keep in mind the slow,
but commanding dynamics of lifes evolution over the very long term.
Until recently, economics was about how businesses thrived year to year, and what kind of governmental
policy to institute in the next quarter. The dynamics of long-term growth are quite remote from the issues of
whether the money supply should be tightened this year. The study of economics has no Darwin yet, but it is
increasingly clear that the behavior of everyday markets cannot be truly understood without keeping in mind
the slow, but commanding dynamics of long-term economic growth.
Over the long run, the worlds economy has grown, on average, a fractional percent per year. During the last
couple of centuries it averaged about 1% per year, reaching about 2% annually this century, when the bulk of
what we see on earth today was built. That means that each year, on average, the economic system produces
2% more stuff than was produced in the previous 12 months. Beneath the frantic ups and downs of daily
commerce, a persistent, invisible swell pushes the entire econosphere forward, slowly thickening the surface of
the earth with more things, more interactions, and more opportunities. And that tide is accelerating, expanding
a little faster each year.
At the genesis of civilization, the earth was mostly Darwins realmall biosphere, no economy. Today the
econosphere is huge beyond comprehension. If we add up the total replacement costs of all the roads in every
country in the world, all the railways, vehicles, telephone lines, power plants, schools, houses, airports,
bridges, shopping centers (and everything inside them), factories, docks, harborsif we add up all the gizmos
and things humans have made all over the planet, and calculate how much it is all worth, as if it were owned
by a company, we come up with a huge amount of wealth accumulated over centuries by this slow growth. In

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-10.html (1 of 11) [12/10/2006 8:48:03 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 10: Opportunities Before Efficiencies

1998 dollars, the global infrastructure is worth approximately 4 quadrillion dollars. Thats a 4 with 15 zeros.
Thats a lot of pennies from nothing.
What is the origin of this wealth? Ten thousand years ago there was almost none. Now there is 4 quadrillion
dollars worth. Where did all of it come from? And how? The expenditure of energy needed to create this
fluorescence is not sufficient to explain it since animals expend vast quantities of energy without the same
result. Something else is at work. "Humans on average build a bit more than they destroy, and create a bit
more than they use up," writes economist Julian Simon. Thats about right, but what enables humans, on
average, to ratchet up such significant accumulations?
The ratchet is the Great Asymmetry, says evolutionist Steven Jay Gould. This is the remarkable ability of
evolution to create a bit more, on average, than it destroys. Against the great drain of entropy, life ratchets up
irreversible gains. The Great Asymmetry is rooted in webs, in tightly interlinked entities, in self-reinforcing
feedback, in coevolution, and in the many loops of increasing returns that fill an ecosystem. Because every
new species in life cocreates a niche for yet other new species to occupy, because every additional organism
presents a chance for other organisms to live upon it, the cumulative total multiplies up faster than the inputs
add up; thus the perennial one-way surplus of opportunities.
We call the Great Asymmetry in human affairs "the economy." It too is packed with networks of webs that
multiply outputs faster than inputs. Therefore, on average, it fills up faster than it leaks. Over the long run, this
slight bias in favor of creation can yield a world worth 4 quadrillion dollars.
It is not money the Great Asymmetry accrues, nor energy, nor stuff. The origin of economic wealth
begins in opportunities.
The first object made by human hands opened an opportunity for someone else to imagine alternative uses or
alternative designs for that object. If those new designs or variations were manifested, then these objects
would create further opportunities for new uses and designs. One actualized artifact yielded two or more
opportunities for improvement. Two improvements yielded two new opportunities eachnow there were four
possibilities. Four yielded eight. Thus over time the number of opportunities were compounded. Like the
doubling of the lily leaf, one tiny bloom can expand to cover the earth in relatively few generations.

Both life and wealth
expand by compounding
increase, which gives
them an eternal slight
advantage over death
and loss, so that over
time there is constant
growth.
Perhaps the most potent physical force on earth is the power of compounded results, whether that is
compounded interest, compounded growth, compounded life, or compounded opportunities. The inputs of
energy and human time into the economy can only be supplied in an additive function, bit by bit, but over time
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-10.html (2 of 11) [12/10/2006 8:48:03 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 10: Opportunities Before Efficiencies

the output is multiplied to compound upon itself, yielding astounding accumulations.
A steady stream of human attention and thought is applied to inventing new tools, devising new amusements,
and creating new wants. But no matter how small and inconsequential, each innovation is a platform for yet
other innovations to launch from.
It is this expanding space of opportunities that creates an ongoing economy. It is this boundless open-ended
arena for innovations that spurs wealth creation. Like a chain reaction, one well-placed innovation can trigger
dozens, if not hundreds, of innovation offspring down the line.
Consider, for example, email. Email is a recent invention that has ignited a frenzy of innovation and
opportunity. Each tiny bit of email ingenuity begets several other bits of ingenuity, and they each in turn beget
others, and so on compoundfinitum. Unlike a piece of junk mail, an email advertisement costs exactly the
same to send to one person or one million peopleassuming you have a million addresses. Where does one get a
million addresses? People innocently post their addresses all over the netat the bottom of their home page, or
in a posting on a news group, or in a link off an article. These postings suggested an open opportunity to
programmers. One of them came up with the idea of a scavenger bot. (A bot, short for robot, is a small bit of
code.) A scavenger bot roams the net looking for any phrase containing the email @ sign, assumes it is an
address, pockets it, and then compiles lists of these addresses that are sold for $20 per thousand to
spammersthe folks who mail unsolicited ads (junk mail) to huge numbers of recipients.
The birth of scavenger bots suddenly created niches for anti-spam bots. Companies that sell internet access
seed the net with decoy phony email addresses so that when the addresses are picked up by scavenger bots and
used by the spammers, the internet provider will get mail they can track to find out where the spam is coming
from. Then the provider blocks the spam from that source for all their customers, which keeps everyone happy
and loyal.

Each new invention
creates a space from
which several more
inventions can be
created. And from
each of those new
innovations comes
yet more spaces of
opportunity.
Naturally, that innovation creates opportunity for yet more innovation. Creative spammers devised technology
that allows them to fake their source address; they hijack someone elses legitimate address to mail spam from
and then flee after using it.
Every move generates two countermoves. Every innovation creates an opportunity for two other innovations
to succeed by it.
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-10.html (3 of 11) [12/10/2006 8:48:03 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 10: Opportunities Before Efficiencies

Every opportunity seized launches at least two new opportunities.
The entire web is an opportunity dynamo. More than 320 million web pages have been created in the first five
years of the webs existence. Each day 1.5 million new pages of all types are added. The number of web
sitesnow at 1 millionis doubling every 8 months. (Think lily pond!) A single opportunity seized in 1989 by a
bored researcher began this entrepreneurial bloom. It is not the lily leaf that is expanding now, but the lily
pond itself.
The number of opportunities, like the number of ideas, are limitless. Both are created combinatorially in the
way words are. You can combine and recombine the same 26 letters to write an infinite number of books. The
more components you begin with, the faster the total possible combinations ramp up to astronomical numbers.
Paul Romer, an economist working on the nature of economic growth, points out that the number of possible
arrangements of bits on a CD is about 10billion. Each arrangement would be a unique piece of software or
music. But this number is so huge there arent enough atoms in the universe to physically make that many CDs,
even subtracting all the duds that are just random noise.
We can rearrange more than just bits. Think of the mineral iron oxide, suggests Romer. Its rust. More than
10,000 years ago our ancestors used iron oxide as a pigment to make art on cave walls. Now, by rearranging
those same atoms into a precisely thin iron oxide film on plastic we get a floppy disk, which can hold a
reproduction of the same cave paintings, and all the possible permutations of it wrought by Photoshop. We
have amplified the possibilities a millionfold.
The power of combinatorial explosionswhich is what you get with ideas and opportunitiesmeans, says Romer,
"Theres essentially no scarcity to deal with." Because the more you use opportunities, the less scarce they get.
Everything we know about the structu
re of the network economy suggests that it will bolster this efflorescence of opportunities, for the following
reasons:
Every opportunity inhabits a connection. As we connect up more and more of the world into nodes on a
network, we make available billions more components in the great combinatorial game. The number of
possibilities explodes.
● Networks speed the transmission of opportunities seized and innovations created, which are
disseminated to all parts of the network and the planet, inviting more opportunities to build upon them.
●

Technology is no panacea. It will never solve the ills or injustices of society. Technology can do only one
thing for usbut it is an astonishing thing: Technology brings us an increase in opportunities.
Long before Beethoven sat before a piano, someone with twice his musical talents was born into a world that
lacked keyboards or orchestras. Well never hear his music because technology and knowledge had not yet
uncovered those opportunities. Centuries later the fulfilled opportunity of musical technology gave Beethoven
the opportunity to be great. How fortunate we are that oil paints had been invented by the time Van Gogh was

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-10.html (4 of 11) [12/10/2006 8:48:03 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 10: Opportunities Before Efficiencies

ready, or that George Lucas could use film and computers. Somewhere on Earth today are young geniuses
waiting for a technology that will perfectly match their gifts. If we are lucky, theyll live long enough for our
knowledge and technology to make the opportunity they need.
Oil paint, keyboard, opera, penall these opportunities remain. But in addition we have added film, metal work,
skyscrapers, hypertext, and holograms as but a few of the new opportunities for artistic expression. Each year
we add more opportunities of every stripe. Ways to see. Methods for thinking. Means of amusing. Paths to
health. Routes to understanding.
The Great Asymmetry of economic life ceaselessly amasses new opportunities while relinquishing few old
ones. The one-way journey is toward more and more possibilities, pointing in more and more directions,
opening more and more new territories.
"A few decades from now there will be ten billion people on the planet, and sophisticated computers will be
cheaper than transistor radios," writes science fiction writer David Brin in his manifesto The Transparent
Society. "If this combination does not lead to war and chaos, then it will surely result in a world where
countless men and women swarm the dataways in search of something special to dosome pursuit outside the
normal range, to make each one feel just a little bit extraordinary. Through the internet, we may be seeing the
start of a great exploration aimed outward in every conceivable direction of interest or curiosity. An expedition
to the limits of what we are, and what we might become."
As the transmission of knowledge accelerates, as more possibilities are manufactured, the unabated push of
incremental growth also speeds up. In the long run, creating and seizing opportunities is what drives the
economy. A better benchmark than productivity would be to measure the number of possibilities generated by
a company or innovation and use the total to evaluate progress.
In the short run, though, problems must be solved. Businesses are taught that they are in the business of
solving problems. Put your finger on a customers dissatisfaction, the MBAs say, and then deliver a solution.
This bit of hoary advice inspires business to seek out problems. Problems, however, are entities that dont
work. They are usually situations where the goal is clear but the execution falls short. As in, "We have a
reliability problem," or "Customers complain about our late delivery." In the words of Peter Drucker, "Dont
solve problems." George Gilder distills the essence further: "When you are solving problems, you are feeding
your failures, starving your successes, and achieving costly mediocrity. In a competitive global arena, costly
mediocrity goes out of business."
"Dont solve problems; pursue opportunities."
Seeking opportunities is no longer wisdom relevant only to the long cycles of economic progress. As the
economy speeds up, so that an "internet year" seems to pass in one month, the principles of long-term growth
begin to govern the day-to-day economy. The dynamics of growth become the dynamics of short-term
competitive advantage.
In both the short and long term, our ability to solve social and economic problems will be limited primarily to
our lack of imagination in seizing opportunities, rather than trying to optimize solutions.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-10.html (5 of 11) [12/10/2006 8:48:03 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 10: Opportunities Before Efficiencies

There is more to be gained by producing more opportunities than by optimizing existing ones.
Optimization and efficiency die hard. In the past, better tools made our work more efficient. So economists
reasonably expected that the coming information age would be awash in superior productivity. Thats what
better tools gave us in the past. But, surprisingly, the technology of computers and networks have not yet led
to measurable increases in productivity.
Increasing efficiency brought us our modern economy. By producing more output per labor input, we had
more goods at cheaper prices. That raised living standards. The productivity factor is so fundamental to
economic growth that it became the central economic measurement tracked and perfected by governments. As
economist Paul Krugman once said, "Productivity isnt everything, but in the long run it is almost everything."
Productivity, however, is exactly the wrong thing to care about in the new economy.
To measure efficiency you need a uniform output. But uniform output is becoming rarer in an economy that
emphasizes smaller production runs, total customization, personalized "feelgoods" and creative innovation.
Less and less is uniform.
And machines have taken over the uniform. They love tedious and measurable work. Constant upgrades
enable them to churn out more per hour. So the only ones who should worry about their own productivity are
those made of ball bearings and rubber hoses. And, in fact, the one area of the current economy that does show
a rise in productivity has been the U.S. and Japanese manufacturing sectors, which have seen an approximately
3% to 5% annual increase throughout the 1980s and into the 1990s. This is exactly where you want to find
productivity. Each worker, by supervising machinery and tools, produces more rivets, more batteries, more
shoes, and more items per person-hour. Efficiencies are for robots.
Opportunities, on the other hand, are for humans. Opportunities demand flexibility, exploration, guesswork,
curiosity, and many other qualities humans excel at. By its recursive nature, a network breeds opportunities,
and incidentally, jobs for humans.
Where humans are most actively engaged with their imaginations, we dont see productivity gainsand why
would we? Is a Hollywood movie company that produces longer movies per dollar more productive than one
that produces shorter movies? Yet an increasingly greater percentage of work takes place in the information,
entertainment, and communication industries where the "volume" of output is somewhat meaningless.
The problem with trying to measure productivity is that it measures only how well people can do the wrong
jobs. Any job that can be measured for productivity probably should be eliminated from the list of jobs that
people do.
The task for each worker in the industrial age was to discover how to do his job better: thats productivity.
Frederick Taylor revolutionized industry by using his scientific method to optimize mechanical work. But in
the network economy, where machines do most of the inhumane work of manufacturing, the question for each
worker is not "How do I do this job right?" but "What is the right job to do?"
Answering this question is, of course, extremely hard to do. Its called an executive function. In the past, only
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-10.html (6 of 11) [12/10/2006 8:48:03 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 10: Opportunities Before Efficiencies

the top 10% of the workforce was expected to make such decisions. Now, everyone, not just executives, must
decide what is the right next thing to do.
In the coming era, doing the exactly right next thing is far more fruitful than doing the same thing
better.
But how can one easily measure this vital sense of exploration and discovery? It will be invisible if you
measure productivity. But in the absence of alternative measures, productivity has become a bugaboo. It
continues to obsess economists because there is little else they know how to measure consistently.
As bureaucrats continue to measure productivity, they find no substantial increase in recent decades. This
despite $700 billion invested into computer technology worldwide each year. Millions of people and
companies worldwide purchase computer technology because it increases the quality of their work, but in the
aggregate there is no record of their benefits in the traditional measurements. This unexpected finding is called
the productivity paradox. As Nobel laureate Robert Solow once quipped, "Computers can be found
everywhere except in economic statistics."
There is no doubt that many past purchases of computer systems were bungled, mismanaged, and squandered.
Last year 8,000 mainframe computerscomputers with the power of a Unix box and the price of a large
buildingwere sold to customers imprisoned by legacy systems. IBM alone sold $5 billion worth of mainframes
in 1997. Those billions dont help the efficiency ratings. The year 2000 fiasco is a world-scale screwup that
also saps the payoff from information technology. But according to economic historian Paul David, it took the
smokestack economy 40 years to figure out how to reconfigure their factories to take advantage of the electric
motor, invented in 1881; for the first decade of the changeover productivity actually decreased. David likes to
quip that "In 1900 contemporaries might well have said that the electric dynamos were to be seen everywhere
but in the economic statistics. " And the switch to electric motors was simple compared to the changes
required by network technology.
At this point we are still in just the third decade of the age of the microprocessor. Productivity will rebound. In
a few years it will "suddenly" show up in elevated percentages. But contrary to Krugmans assertion, in the
long run productivity is almost nothing. Not because productivity increases wont happen; they will. But
because, like the universal learning curve that brings costs plunging down, increased productivity is a rote
process.
The learning curve of inverted prices was first observed by T. P. Wright, a legendary engineer who built
airplanes after the First World War. Wright kept records of the numbers of hours it took to assemble each
plane and calculated that the time dropped as the total number of units completed increased. The more
experience assemblers had, the greater their productivity. At first this was thought to be relevant only to
airplanes, but in the 1970s engineers at Texas Instruments began applying the rule to semiconductors. Since
then the increase of productivity with experience is seen everywhere. According to Michael Rothschild, author
of Bionomics, "Data proving learning-curve cost declines have been published for steel, soft contact lenses,
life insurance policies, automobiles, jet engine maintenance, bottle caps, refrigerators, gasoline refining, room
air conditioners, TV picture tubes, aluminum, optical fibers, vacuum cleaners, motorcycles, steam turbine
generators, ethyl alcohol, beer, facial tissues, transistors, disposable diapers, gas ranges, float glass, long
distance telephone calls, knit fabric lawn mowers, air travel, crude oil production, typesetting, factory
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-10.html (7 of 11) [12/10/2006 8:48:03 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 10: Opportunities Before Efficiencies

maintenance, and hydroelectric power."
As the law of increasing productivity per experience was seen to be universal, another key observation was
made: The learning didnt have to take place within one company. The experience curve could be seen across
whole industries. Easy, constant communication spreads experience throughout a network, enabling everyones
production to contribute to the learning. Rather than have five companies each producing 10,000 units,
network technologies allow the five to be virtually grouped so that in effect there is one company producing
50,000 units, and everyone shares the benefits of experience. Since there is a 20% drop in cost for every
doubling of experience, this network effect adds up. Advances in network communications, standard protocols
for the transmission of technical data, and the informal, ad hoc communities of technicians all spread this
whirlwind of experience, and ensures the routine rise of productivity.
Analyst Andrew Kessler of Velocity Capital Management compares the plummeting of prices due to the
universal learning curve to a low pressure front in the economy. Just as a meterological low pressure system
sucks in weather from the rest of the country, the low pressure point generated by sinking prices sucks in
investments and entrepreneurial zeal to create opportunities.
Opportunities and productivity work hand in hand much like the two-step process of variation and death in
natural selection. The primary role that productivity plays in the network economy is to disperse technologies.
A technical advance cannot leverage future opportunities if it is hoarded by a few. Increased productivity
lowers the cost of acquisition of knowledge, techniques, or artifacts, allowing more people to have them.
When transistors were expensive they were rare, and thus the opportunities built upon them were rare. As the
productivity curve kicked in, transistors eventually became so cheap and omnipresent that anyone could
explore their opportunities. When ball bearings were dear, opportunities sired by them were dear. As
communication becomes everywhere dirt cheap and ubiquitous, the opportunities it kindles will likewise
become unlimited.
The network economy is destined to be a fount of routine productivity. Technical experience can be shared
quickly, increasing efficiencies in automation. The routine productivity of machines, however, is not what
humans want. Instead, what the network economy demands from us is something that looks suspiciously like
waste.
Wasting time and inefficiencies are the way to discovery. When Condé Nasts editorial director Alexander
Liberman was challenged on his inefficiencies in producing world-class magazines such The New Yorker,
Vanity Fair, and Architectural Digest, he said it best: "I believe in waste. Waste is very important in
creativity." Science fiction ace William Gibson declared the web to be the worlds largest waste of time. But
this inefficiency was, Gibson further noted, its main attraction and blessing, too. It was the source of art, new
models, new ideas, subcultures, and a lot more. In a network economy, innovations must first be seeded into
the inefficiencies of gift economy to later sprout in efficiencies of the commerce.
Before the World Wide Web there was Dialog. Dialog was pretty futuristic. In the 1970s and 80s it was the
closest thing to an electronic library there was, containing the worlds scientific, scholarly, and journalistic
texts. The only problem was its price, $1 per minute. You could spend a lot of money looking things up. At
those prices only serious questions were asked. There was no fooling around, no making frivolous querieslike
looking up your name. Waste was discouraged. Since searching was sold as a scarcity, there was little way to
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-10.html (8 of 11) [12/10/2006 8:48:03 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 10: Opportunities Before Efficiencies

master the medium, or to create anything novel.
It takes 56 hours of wasting time on the webclicking aimlessly through dumb web sites, trying stuff, and
making tons of mistakes and silly requestsbefore you master its search process. The web encourages
inefficiency. It is all about creating opportunities and ignoring problems. Therefore it has hatched more
originality in a few weeks than the efficiency-oriented Dialog system has in its lifetime, that is, if Dialog has
ever hatched anything novel at all.
The Web is being run by 20-year-olds because they can afford to waste the 56 hours it takes to become
proficient explorers. While 45-year-old boomers cant take a vacation without thinking how theyll justify the
trip as being productive in some sense, the young can follow hunches and create seemingly mindless novelties
on the web without worrying about whether they are being efficient. Out of these inefficient tinkerings will
come the future.
Faster than the economy can produce what we want, we are exploring in every direction, following every idle
curiosity, and inventing more wants to satisfy. Like everything else in a network, our wants are compounding
exponentially.
Although at some fundamental level our wants connect to our psyches, and each desire can be traced to some
primeval urge, technology creates ever new opportunities for those desires to find outlets and form. Some deeprooted human desires found expression only when the right technology came along. Think of the ancient urge
to fly, for instance.
KLM, the official Dutch airline, sells a million dollars worth of tickets per year to people who fly trips to
nowhere. Customers board the plane on whatever international flight KLM has extra seats on, and make an
immediate round-trip flight, returning without leaving the airport at the other end. The flight is like a high-tech
cruise, where duty-free shopping and simply flying in a 737 at a steep discount is the attraction. Where did this
want come from? It was created by technology.
Finance writer Paul Pilzer notes perceptively that "When a merchant sells a consumer a new Sony Walkman
for $50, he is in fact creating far more demand than he is satisfyingin this case a continuing and potentially
unlimited need for tape cassettes and batteries." Technology creates our needs faster than it satisfies them.
Needs are neither fixed nor absolute. Instead they are fluid and reflexive. The father of virtual reality, Jaron
Lanier, claims that his passion for inventing VR systems came from a long-frustrated urge to play "air
guitar"to be able to wave his arms and have music emanate from his motions. Anyone with access to a VR
arcade can now have that urge satisfied, but it is a want that most people would have never recognized until
they immersed themselves into virtual reality gear. It was certainly not a primary want that Plato would have
listed.
At one time a useful distinction was made in economics between "primary" needs such as food and clothing,
and all other wants and preferences, which were termed "luxuries." Advertising is undoubtedly guilty, as
critics charge, of creating desires. At first these manufactured desires were for luxuries. But the reach of
technology is deep. Sophisticated media technology first creates desires for luxuries; then technology
transforms those luxuries into primary necessities.
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-10.html (9 of 11) [12/10/2006 8:48:03 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 10: Opportunities Before Efficiencies

A dry room with running water, electric lights, a color TV, and a toilet are considered so elementary and
primary today that we outfit jail cells with this minimum technology. Yet three generations ago, this
technology would have been officially classified as outright luxurious, if not frivolous. In the governments
eyes 93% of Americans officially classified as living in poverty have a color TV, and 60% have a VCR and a
microwave. Poverty is not what it used to be. Technological knowledge constantly ups the ante. Most
Americans today would find living without a refrigerator and telephone to be primitive, indeed. These items
were luxuries only 60 years ago. At this point an automobile of ones own is considered a primary survival
need of any adult.
"Need" is a loaded word. The key point in economic terms is that each actualization of a desirethat is, each
new service or productforms a platform from which other possible activities can be imagined and desired.
Once technology satisfies the opportunity to fly, for instance, flying produces new desires: to eat while flying,
to fly by oneself to work each day, to fly faster than sound, to fly to the moon, to watch TV while flying. Once
technology satisfies the desire to watch TV while flying, our insatiable imagination hungers to be able to
watch a video of our own choosing, and to not see what others watch. That dream, too, can be actualized by
technical knowledge. Each actualization of an idea supplies room for more technology, and each new
technology supplies room for more ideas. They feed on each other, rounding faster and faster.
This ever-extending loop whereby technology generates demand, and then supplies the technology to meet
those demands is the origin of progress. But it is only now being viewed as such. In classical economicsbased
on the workings of the brick and smokestacktechnology was a leftover. To explain economic growth,
economists tallied up the effects of the traditional economic ingredients such as labor, capital, and inventory.
This aggregate became the equation of growth. Whatever growth was not explained by those was attributed to
a residual category: technology. Technology was thus defined as outside the economic engine. It was also
assumed to be a fixed quantitysomething that didnt really change itself. Then in 1957 Robert Solow, an
economist working at MIT, calculated that technology is responsible for about 80% of growth.
We see now, particularly with the advent of the network economy, that technology is not the residual, but the
dynamo. In the new order, technology is the Prime Mover.
Our minds will at first be bound by old rules of economic growth and productivity. Listening to the technology
can loose them. Technology says, rank opportunities before efficiencies. For any individual, organization, or
country the key decision is not how to raise productivity by doing the same better, but how to negotiate among
the explosion of opportunities, and choose right things to do.
The wonderful news about the network economy is that it plays right into human strengths. Repetition,
sequels, copies, and automation all tend toward the free and efficient, while the innovative, original, and
imaginativenone of which results in efficiencysoar in value.

Strategies
Why cant a machine do this? If there is pressure to increase the productivity of human workers, the serious
question to ask is, why cant a machine do this? The fact that a task is routine enough to be measured suggests
that it is routine enough to go to the robots. In my opinion, many of the jobs that are being fought over by
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...les%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-10.html (10 of 11) [12/10/2006 8:48:03 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Chapter 10: Opportunities Before Efficiencies

unions today are jobs that will be outlawed within several generations as inhumane.
Scout for upside surprises. The qualities needed to succeed in the network economy can be reduced to this: a
facility for charging into the unknown. Disaster lurks everywhere, but so do unexpected bonanzas. But the
Great Asymmetry ensures that the upside potential outweighs the downside, even though nine out of ten tries
will fail. Upside benefits tend to cluster. When there are two, there will be more. A typical upside surprise is
an innovation that satisfies three wants at once, and generates five new ones, too.
Maximize the opportunity cascade. One opportunity triggers another. And then another. Thats a rifle-shot
opportunity burst. But if one opportunity triggers ten others and those ten others after, its an explosion that
cascades wide and fast. Some seized opportunities burst completely laterally, multiplying to the hundreds of
thousands in the first generationand then dry up immediately. Think of the pet rock. Sure, it sold in the
millions, but then what? There was no opportunity cascade. The way to determine the likelihood of a cascade
is to explore the question: How many other technologies or businesses can be started by others based on this
opportunity?
continue...

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/De...les%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-10.html (11 of 11) [12/10/2006 8:48:03 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- A Thousand Points Of Wealth

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
A THOUSAND POINTS OF WEALTH
The network economy will unleash opportunities on a scale never seen before on
Earth. But the network economy is not utopia. It is a unique phase of economic
development much like adolescencea thrilling, disorienting, and never-to-be
repeated time. The planet can progress only once through the stage when it is first
completely wrapped by networks of thought and interaction. We are now at that
moment when a cloak of glass fibers and a halo of satellites are closing
themselves around the globe to bring forth a seamless economic culture.
This new global economic culture is characterized by decentralized ownership and
equity, by pools of knowledge instead of pools of capital, by an emphasis on an
open society, and, most important, by a widespread reliance on economic values
as the basis for making decisions in all walks of life.
The sources of capital, which in the industrial age were once consolidated in a few
banks and individual "capitalists," are now fragmenting into millions of networked
bank accounts, mutual funds, and private investments throughout society. Elite,
centralized banks used to have a monopoly on capitalthe engine of capitalism.
Bankers loaned their assets as debt, and from this debt, industry rose. But with
increased knowledge and communication, investors realized that partnershipsor
investments where the investor shares riskyield significantly more wealth in the
long run. Technology has accelerated the migration from making loans to making
investments. The ease of computerized accounting allows almost anyone with as
little as $100 to plug into the network of equity. Despite the rise of a few gigantic
global banks, increasing amounts of the wealth are now held in equity, and not in
debt. Today, for instance, 28% of U.S. household assets are kept in equitiesmore
than is kept in banksand 44% of U.S. households own stock.
Networks promote this equity culture. The ownership of organizations is
distributed and decentralized into a thousand points. The transactional costs of
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-thousand.html (1 of 5) [12/10/2006 8:48:06 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- A Thousand Points Of Wealth

owning a tiny share of someones elses dreams and ambitions continues to drop so
that it becomes feasible to possess, directly and indirectly, small parts of many
companies. When you invest in a mutual fund, you invest in hundreds of
thousands of other peoples work. You use the wealth that your own ambition has
generated to seed the generation of prosperity by others. You may own only some
minuscule portion of an enterprise, but you can easily own parts of many firms,
and each firm is owned by millions of individuals. This is network equity.
Out of this distributed ownership a portrait of a network emerges. Millions of lines
of investment crisscross the landscape. A few individuals own a lot, but the
majority of nodes are dispersed into small bank accounts in small towns. The bulk
of stocks in the United States are controlled by the pension funds of ordinary
citizensby millions of individuals in the aggregate. The workers of America really
do collectively own the means of production.
This network equity is made possible by the same network technologyshrinking
chips and expanding communicationsthat creates wealth in the first place. The
tracking, accounting, and transmission of each persons wealth and slivers of
ownership can happen only because computation and telecommunication have
reduced the cost of a transaction to insignificance, Today there are 7,000 mutual
funds7,000 ways to divvy up the equity of wealth creation. And there are a similar
number of publicly traded companies that have, in effect, divvied up their wealth
to many owners.
There are several trends in this emerging equity culture, each one amplified by
pervasive network technology.
First, the spread of ownership is becoming global, just as the economy itself is. In
the last few years, Europe has suddenly sent a mind-boggling infusion of money
into the stock markets. Europeans discovered equity culture and overnight
invested hundreds of billions of dollars of their old wealth into the network of
ownership. At the same time, hungry investors are pouring billions into the coffers
of Asian and Latin American "emerging markets." Today, almost any investor in
mutual funds, whether he knows it or not, has a stake in a company operating in a
nation outside his own.
Second, as the ease and price of transactions drop, the spread of ownership
becomes fine-grained and ever wider. Smaller and smaller investments into more
and more varieties of endeavors are possible. Several banks are following the lead
of the Grameen Bank of Bangladesh and offering microloans. These loans amount
to U.S. $100 or less, and are made to third-worlders who use the money to buy a
cow, purchase some yarn, or begin some other microentrepreneurial dream. The
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-thousand.html (2 of 5) [12/10/2006 8:48:06 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- A Thousand Points Of Wealth

payback rate is around 95%, making these almost as risk-free as bonds. As one
banking report says, "Lending to poor people in the shanty towns of La Paz may
be safer for banks than lending to the government of Bolivia itself." Large
commercial banks have noticed the U.S. $7 billion already lent to 13 million
people around the world, and are bringing "microfinance" into the mainstream of
banking. The low cost of tracking large numbers of fast-circulating payments
means that network technology can accelerate the velocity of money in such
decentralized, microfinance programs. It is easy to imagine a high-yielding mutual
fund based on hundreds of thousand of up-and-coming third world
microentrepreneurs.
Third, the same type of fine-grained decentralization is about to happen in
publicly traded companies. During the 1990s approximately 4,000 companies
"went public" in the United States. These corporations were newly funded by the
investment of many small shareholders, who collectively contributed about $250
billion to these companies equity. Right now, very old-fashioned hurdles prevent
many smaller companies from accepting equity investments by the public. Some
of these hurdles are legacies from the industrial era when communication and
information were scarce. Some obstacles are simply the selfish protections of
investment bankers and others who reap billions by their monopoly on controlling
the process of taking a company public. Network technology is radically altering
the stock market, causing a widespread reevaluation of the role and worth of stock
brokers, traders, and a centralized market itself (such as the New York Stock
Exchange) in a world where economic information is ubiquitious and instant.
Secure, reliable, and trustworthy offerings of publicly traded companies can
happen on the net without most of the traditional Wall Street rigmarole. Network
technology will make it possible for qualified companies to take their company
public from a desktop, directly soliciting the investments from billions of
individuals and organizations worldwide. This will happen sooner than Wall
Street thinks.
Fourth, the Silicon Valley model of compensation is infecting more parts of the
world. A major element of equity culture is the ideology that every person
working in a company should have the opportunity to own part of it. In most
American high-tech companies, stock options for employees are mandatory.
Shares in the company are often used to recruit hot talent, or to be dispensed as
bonuses, or, in the case of start-ups, to be paid out as a substitute for a salary.
Companies that grant stock options to all employees return greater wealth to
shareholders than companies that dont (19% for the former, 11% for the latter).
In the network economy, ownership is fragmented into myriad parts, sped along
electronic pathways, and dispersed among workers, venture capitalists, investors,
alliance members, outsiders, and, in minute doses, even to competitors. Networks
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-thousand.html (3 of 5) [12/10/2006 8:48:06 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- A Thousand Points Of Wealth

breed swarm capitalism.
Yet as networks rise, the center recedes. It is no coincidence that global networks
appear at the same time as the postmodern literary movement. In postmodernism,
there is no central authority, no universal dogma, no foundational ethic. The theme
of postmodernism in the arts, science, and politics is summed up by Steven Best
and Douglas Kellner in their book The Postmodern Turn: "The postmodern turn
results in fragmentation, instability, indeterminacy, and uncertainty." This also
sums up the net.
Network principles renounce rigidity, closed structure, universal schemes, central
authority, and fixed values. Instead networks offer up plurality, differences,
ambiguity, incompleteness, contingency, and multiplicity. These qualities are
ideal for disruption, for the spread of networked-organized crime, and for
fostering the lack of shared values.
Because the nature of the network economy seeds disequilibrium, fragmentation,
uncertainty, churn, and relativism, the anchors of meaning and value are in short
supply. We are simply unable to deal with questions that cannot be answered by
means of technology. The stereotypical modern consumer is already a rather thin
character. He or she is like a balloon: possessing an inflated ego and a thin identity
stretched to its limit. They dont know who they are, but they are very certain that
they are very important. The smallest prick can pop their container.
In the great vacuum of meaning, in the silence of unspoken values, in the vacancy
of something large to stand for, something bigger than oneself, technologyfor
better or worsewill shape our society.
Because values and meaning are scarce today, technology will make our decisions
for us. Well listen to technology because our modern ears listen to little else. In
the absence of other firm beliefs, well let technology steer. No other force is as
powerful in shaping our destiny. By imagining what technology wants, we can
imagine the course of our culture.
The future of technology is networks. Networks large, wide, deep, and fast.
Electrified networks of all types will cover our planet and their complex nodes
will shape our economy and color our lives. The shift to this new perspective will
be neither immediate nor painless. Nor will it be as strange as it first appears.
There is no reason to accept the imperative of technology without challenge, but
there is also no doubt that technologys march is clearly aimed toward all things
networked. Those who obey the logic of the net, and who understand that we are
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-thousand.html (4 of 5) [12/10/2006 8:48:06 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- A Thousand Points Of Wealth

entering into a realm with new rules, will have a keen advantage in the new
economy.
Continue...

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-thousand.html (5 of 5) [12/10/2006 8:48:06 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Ten Radical Strategies for a Connected World

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
NEW RULES FOR THE NEW ECONOMY
1) Embrace the Swarm. As power flows away from the center, the competitive
advantage belongs to those who learn how to embrace decentralized points of
control.
2) Increasing Returns. As the number of connections between people and things
add up, the consequences of those connections multiply out even faster, so that
initial successes arent self-limiting, but self-feeding.
3) Plentitude, Not Scarcity. As manufacturing techniques perfect the art of
making copies plentiful, value is carried by abundance, rather than scarcity,
inverting traditional business propositions.
4) Follow the Free. As resource scarcity gives way to abundance, generosity
begets wealth. Following the free rehearses the inevitable fall of prices, and takes
advantage of the only true scarcity: human attention.
5) Feed the Web First. As networks entangle all commerce, a firms primary
focus shifts from maximizing the firms value to maximizing the networks value.
Unless the net survives, the firm perishes.
6) Let Go at the Top. As innovation accelerates, abandoning the highly
successful in order to escape from its eventual obsolescence becomes the most
difficult and yet most essential task.
7) From Places to Spaces. As physical proximity (place) is replaced by multiple
interactions with anything, anytime, anywhere (space), the opportunities for
intermediaries, middlemen, and mid-size niches expand greatly.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...les%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-list.html (1 of 2) [12/10/2006 8:48:07 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Ten Radical Strategies for a Connected World

8) No Harmony, All Flux. As turbulence and instability become the norm in
business, the most effective survival stance is a constant but highly selective
disruption that we call innovation.
9) Relationship Tech. As the soft trumps the hard, the most powerful
technologies are those that enhance, amplify, extend, augment, distill, recall,
expand, and develop soft relationships of all types.
10) Opportunities Before Efficiencies. As fortunes are made by training
machines to be ever more efficient, there is yet far greater wealth to be had by
unleashing the inefficient discovery and creation of new opportunities.
Acknowledgements...

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...les%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-list.html (2 of 2) [12/10/2006 8:48:07 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Annotated Bibliography

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY
The following books are ranked by relevance and degree of insight to
understanding the new economy. This list starts with those I found most pertinent
and ends with those that served as background. Left unlisted are many good books
on economics and new business that contained only a few relevant ideas to this
subject. Some of these additional resources are mentioned in my source notes.
Following the annotated books is a list of useful web sites which have the best and
most current material.
Information Rules: A Strategic Guide to the Network Economy, by Carl
Shapiro and Hal R. Varian. Harvard Business School Press, 1998. If you want to
go beyond the fundamental principles outlined in my book, try this one. This book
is the best overview of the network economy yet, rigorously written by two bona
fide economists, with careful analysis and plenty of real-life examples. Their
emphasis is on high-tech and online environments, but their understanding is on
target and widely applicable. Five stars.
Enterprise One to One: Tools for Competing in the Interactive Age, byDon
Peppers and Martha Rogers. Doubleday, 1997. An excellent investigation into the
future shape of relationships in the new economy. I learned all kinds of
unexpected things from this well-written and witty book. It is very pragmatic
about business tactics (how to get your company to interact with customers), but it
also articulates useful economy principles at the strategic level as well. The
authors seem to have an intuitive grasp of how the new economy is unfolding.
Net Gain: Expanding Markets Through Virtual Communities, by John Hagel
III and Arthur G. Armstrong. Harvard Business School Press, 1997. A highly
original and extremely insightful view of the new economy seen through the lens
of commercial communities. It shifts focus away from firms or customers and
onto emerging networks. It sees virtual communities as serious business. Although
not economic in its sensibilities, this is one of the best books about the network
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-bib.html (1 of 7) [12/10/2006 8:48:10 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Annotated Bibliography

economy. Highly recommended.
The Rise of the Network Society, by Manuel Castells. Volume 1 of the
Information Age. Blackwell Publishers, 1996. A dense, sprawling, comprehensive
vista of the ongoing transformation of society by network technologies. Castells is
a sociologist with a Europeans bent for the large-scale sweep of history. This
book, the first in a trilogy, is a catalog of evidence for the arrival of a new global,
networked-based culture. The immense scope of this change is reflected in the
immense, and at times unwieldy, scope of this book. Castells literate and broad
view is what makes it worthwhile.
Blur: The Speed of Change in the Connected Economy, by Stan Davis and
Christopher Meyer. Addison-Wesley, 1998. Further explorations of the
consequences of the network economy. The authors list three primary forces
overturning the old order: speed, intangibles, and connectivity (which parallel my
three of globalization, intangibles, and connectivity). They have lots of business
examples and yet more strategies.
Unleashing the Killer App: Digital Strategies for Market Dominance, by
Larry Downes and Chunka Mui. Harvard Business School Press, 1998. Despite
the slightly misleading title, this book celebrates the network economy. It arrives
at similar conclusion as I do, and it even has its own list of new rules (on page 77).
However, its focus is on the practical creation of a business service or product in
the new economy. It is not as methodical or complete as Information Rules, but I
think it is a good general businesspersons introduction.
Webonomics, by Evan I. Schwartz. Broadway Books, 1997. Schwartz focuses
very specifically on the practical problems of using web sites to create commerce.
His nine principles for doing business on the web wont hold true for the entire
new economy, but they are pointed in the right direction. If you are running a
commercial web site, his advice is certainly helpful.
The Digital Estate: Strategies for Competing, Surviving, and Thriving in an
Internetworked World, by Chuck Martin. McGraw-Hill, 1996. A super book for
getting a feel for the new online business culture. Martin gives you a visceral
sense of the tremendous cleverness, brilliant innovations, and experimental
business models happening "out of sight" on the web. Hes a great tour guide to
this strange new territory, and the best way to get a sense of "whats happening" in
online commerce.
The Economics of Electronic Commerce, by Andrew B. Whinston, Dale O.
Stahl, and Soon-Yong Choi. Macmillan Technical Publishing, 1997. Electronic
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-bib.html (2 of 7) [12/10/2006 8:48:10 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Annotated Bibliography

commerce is barely born and already has its textbook. This one is a pretty good
textbook, too. The material is wonderfully interdisciplinary, covering economics,
engineering, finance, and marketing. In addition to the usual papers and book
references, the authors also list plenty of relevant web site urls. For doing business
online, this textbook is better than having an MBA.
The Digital Economy: Promise and Peril in the Age of Networked
Intelligence, by Don Tapscott. McGraw-Hill, 1996. In a not very organized
fashion, this book wanders through some of the emerging dynamics of the
network economy. There are lots of examples of new economy business, but with
little theory, and a minimum of analysis. Overall, he is good at picking out new
economy business trends.
Electronic Commerce: A Managers Guide, by Ravi Kalakota and Andrew B.
Whinston. Addison-Wesley, 1997. One of those books that are very timely at the
moment, but will date quickly. Here is everything known in 1997 about managing
electronic commerce on a web site. How to do firewalls, transaction security, and
electronic payments from the view of a nonprogramming mid-level manager. If
the authors are smart, theyll keep this tome updated.
The Weightless World: Strategies for Managing the Digital Economy, by
Diane Coyle. Capstone Publishing, 1997. This book, unlike many of the others
listed here, is more concerned with the economic consequences, rather than the
business implications, of the new economy. Coyle begins to grapple with the
issues such as welfare, governance, and policy decisions which a "weightless"
world of information will demand. Another way of saying this is that Coyle often
considers the downsides of the new economy. Such questioning is sorely needed.
Release 2.0: A Design for Living in the Digital Age, by Esther Dyson.
Broadway Books, 1997. A pretty good primer aimed at lay people explaining the
social consequences of network society and culture. Covers a full range of topics
from privacy to identity to communities and intellectual property. Sort of like a
orientation tour of this exotic tomorrowland.
The Age of the Network: Organizing Principles for the 21st Century, by
Jessica Lipnack and Jeffrey Stamps. Oliver Wright Publications, 1994. Despite its
very new-agey tone, this book is useful as a background. It combines the
understanding of everyday social networks with the understanding of electronic
networks to provide some key insights into how human networks in general work.
And it makes clear their increasing influence.
Bionomics: Economy as Ecosystem, by Michael Rothschild. Henry Holt and
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-bib.html (3 of 7) [12/10/2006 8:48:10 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Annotated Bibliography

Company, 1990. A chatty amplification of a very fundamental metaphorthe
economy behaves like a ecosystem. Buried in the stories about trilobites and
bacteria, are some very keen insights about the network economy.
The Death of Competition: Leadership and Strategy in the Age of Business
Ecosystems, by James F. Moore. HarperCollins, 1996. The closest analogy to a
network is an ecosystem. Moore plumbs the biological metaphor in great detail
and with more success, perhaps, than Bionomics does. I consider these ideas
prime territory still waiting to be exploited. This book is a good start.
The Economy as an Evolving Complex System, edited by Philip W. Anderson,
Kenneth J. Arrow, and David Pines. Addison-Wesley, 1988. Thepublished
proceedings from a landmark workshop on ecological approaches to deciphering
the economy. Very technical and academic, but also very revolutionary.
Increasing Returns and Path Dependence in the Economy, by W. Brian Arthur.
University of Michigan Press, 1994. If you are willing to try unprocessed
originals, the papers in this collection can illuminate the key and pivotal function
of increasing returns. Written by the economist who coined the term, at least some
of the papers are accessible and clear to lay readers.
The Winner-Take-All Society, by Robert H. Frank and Philip J. Cook. Penguin
Books, 1995. Since there is a winner-take-most element to the network economy,
this readable book-length essay is quite provocative.
Internet Economics, edited by Lee W. McKnight and Joseph P. Bailey. MIT
Press, 1997. A well-chosen selection of scholarly papers outlining the economic
problems created by internet commerce. Most questions in the compendium deal
with the baffling problem of how to price services in a distributed environment.
How should shared connections, or insurance, or occasional links be priced? How
should traffic be regulated? What shape will money take? This is the engineers
approach to economics.
The Death of Distance: How the Communications Revolution Will Change
Our Lives, by Frances Cairncross. Harvard Business School Press, 1997. An
accurate book, but with the thin and well-worn announcement that global
communications are changing the world. Low on surprises or insight, but full of
facts.
The Self-Organizing Economy, by Paul Krugman. Blackwell Publishers, 1996.
A slim volume of fairly technical descriptions of how decentralized, bottom-up
self-organization can shape some economic phenomenon, such as cities.
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-bib.html (4 of 7) [12/10/2006 8:48:10 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Annotated Bibliography

The Future of Money in the Information Age, edited by James A. Dorn. Cato
Institute, 1997. Money, which is a type of information, is changing as fast as the
economy it circulates in. This is an academic view of how money and financial
institutions are transforming.
Digital Money: The New Era of Internet Commerce, by Daniel Lynch and
Leslie Lundquist. John Wiley & Sons, 1996. Lynch, a founder of a digital cash
system, paints a portrait of the new economy as viewed from the perspective of
liquid, intangible e-money. The shape of money in the future is a huge, vital, and
unknown question, one that I skirted for space reasons. This book is a great place
to catch up.
Cybercorp: The New Business Revolution, by James Martin. Amacon, 1996.
Martin is a legendary telecom guru who has written over a hundred books. This
one is a jumble of buzz words, astounding insights, tired clichés, astute musings,
interesting graphs, corny lessons, wonderful statistics, lame explanations, and
bubbly enthusiasm. Hes often right, and he is focused on the new economy, but
the reader will have to do the winnowing.
The Twilight of Sovereignty, by Walter B. Wriston. Charles Scribners Sons,
1992. Not as revolutionary as it was when it was first published in 1992, this short
book still makes a very intelligible case for a new economy birthing. Wriston pays
particular attention to the geopolitical impacts of a networked information
economy.
Shared Minds: New Technologies of Collaboration, by Michael Schrage.
Random House, 1990. Although not explicitly about networks or network
technology, this book is about what happens when you use toolssuch as
networksto create collaborations of minds, for both work and play. It is more
about the future of business organization than most books advertised as such.
Regional Advantage: Culture and Competition in Silicon Valley and Route
128, by Annalee Saxenian. Harvard University Press, 1994. A wonderful book
about the success of network culture in Silicon Valley, brought into relief by
comparing it to the older, but less successful and less networked, high-tech culture
based in the vicinity of Boston.
Innovation Explosion, by James Brian Quinn, Jordan J. Baruch, and Karen Anne
Zien. The Free Press, 1997. If knowledge is the new capital, then innovation is the
new currency. Quinn and colleagues do a masterful job of placing innovation as
the central dynamic in a knowledge economy. They have rounded up anecdotes,
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-bib.html (5 of 7) [12/10/2006 8:48:10 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Annotated Bibliography

statistics, and bullet points galore to create a believable case for why innovation is
the key variable in the network economy.
Post-Capitalistic Society, by Peter Drucker. HarperCollins, 1993. An early
picture of the coming new economy which has not aged a bit. Drucker is always
worth reading.
Unlimited Wealth: The Theory and Practice of Economic Alchemy, by Paul
Zane Pilzer. Crown Publishers, 1990. This one is an outlier, a little on the extreme
side. More than most observers, Pilzer is not hesitant to speculate on the ways in
which technology increases prosperity in an economy. His heretical ideas are
refreshing.
The Third Wave, by Alvin Toffler. Bantam, 1980. A classic, and yet still
incredibly up-to-date and informative. Tofflers 20-year-old profile of a new
economy and new culture is more readable and more accurate than most
depictions written since.
New Ideas from Dead Economists: An Introduction to Modern Economic
Thought, by Todd G. Buchholz. Penguin Books, 1990. Most "new" ideas in
economics, as in everything else, are not new at all. This compact volume is the
best one-stop shop for extracting the best thoughts of previous economists.
Painless and edifying, this text should be in every network economists library.
The Information Economy. http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/resources/infoecon//
The most complete website for the new economy. This clear, wide-ranging, and
very up-to-date site, run by economist Hal Varian, coauthor of Information Rules
(see above), lists papers, works in process, and hundreds of links to other new
economy sites. Almost any web site that is remotely connected to the information
or network economy is linked here, including, for example, the follow two sites.
George Gilders Telecosm Index. http://homepage.seas.upenn.edu/~gaj1/ggindex.
htmll Chapters of author George Gilders epic book-in-progress on the emerging
telecommunications universe are archived here. Gilders thinking is seminal, and
many of my own rules owe much to him. Keep an eye out for his book Telecosm,
due out in late 1998; until then, these articles from Forbes are a real goldmine.
The Economics of Networks. http://raven.stern.nyu.edu/networks/site.html This
site is primarily dedicated to examining the economic implications of
communication networks. It is crammed with papers by the site organizer
(economist Nicholas Economides), but also includes a very handy bibliography
and master list of all other economists working on the economics of networks.
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-bib.html (6 of 7) [12/10/2006 8:48:10 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Annotated Bibliography

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desk...ules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-bib.html (7 of 7) [12/10/2006 8:48:10 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Acknowledgements

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This book benefited greatly from the work of researcher Jan Tudor, of JT
Research in Portland, Oregon. Many people, including a number of qualified
economists, supplied me with very helpful comments after reading the article
upon which this book is based. These readers included Paul Romer, Paul
Krugman, and George Gilder. Romer, Krugman, John Hagel, Paul Saffo, and
Michael Kremer also provided interviews to me as well. A few other people took
valuable time to read and comment on the manuscript version: John Heilemann of
The New Yorker, Russ Mitchell of U.S. News & World Report, Peter Schwartz of
Global Business Network, and Hal Varian of the University of California,
Berkeley. The fact-checking crew at Wired magazine made significant
contributions, and as usual, saved me from embarrassment. At Viking, editor
David Stanford turned my rough draft into a smooth piece of English while copy
editor Danny Marcus further polished it to its present form. Many of the concepts
expanded here originated in long conversations with John Perry Barlow, who was
often the first to appreciate their power. John Brockman, my literary agent, saw a
book in my ideas. My wife, Gia-Miin Fuh, sacrificed her weekends so I could
write it; without that gift, this book wouldnt have happened. Thank you, all.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Desktop...20rules%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-ack.html [12/10/2006 8:48:12 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Notes

Cheaper than printing it out: buy the paperback book.

New Rules for the New Economy
NOTES
4 In DeLongs view: DeLongs essay "Old Ideas for the New Economy," in
Rewired, www.rewired.com.
8 "Listen to the technology": Quoted by George Gilder in the Gilder Technology
Report, November 1996.
10 a transistor cost: "Happy 50th" by Heidi Elliott, in Electronic Business,
December 1997.
10 trillion objects manufactured: Estimated by multiplying the estimated average
number of objects one person buys in a year by the number of adults.
10 200 million computers: DataQuest.
10 number of noncomputer chips: DataQuest.
14 Tree of Life: http://phylogeny.arizona.edu/tree/phylogeny.html.
15 GM saves $1.5 million: "What Complexity Theory Can Teach Business" by
David Berreby, in Strategy & Business Issue 3, 1996.
16 a computer flight simulator: This audience participation technology is operated
by Cinematrix Interactive Entertainment Systems, Novato, CA, (415) 892-8254,
or cies@nbn.com.
28 "If a product": "Increasing Returns and the New World of Business," by W.
Brian Arthur, in Harvard Business Review, July 1996

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...s%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-notes.html (1 of 4) [12/10/2006 8:48:13 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Notes

31 "Technology is the campfire": "Change is Good," Wired, January 1998.
36 "the only reliable predictor": "Chaos in Hollywood" by John Cassidy, in The
New Yorker, March 31, 1997.
49 Gilders Law: "Fiber Keeps Its Promise," by George Gilder, in Forbes ASAP,
April 1997.
52 "in the Network Economy": "Entertainment Values: Will Capitalism Go
Hollywood?" by Paul Krugman, in Slate, January 22, 1998.
55 "What information consumes": "The Information Economy" by Hal Varian,
Scientific American, September 1995.
56 first 1,000 days of the webs life: Brewster Kahles internet backup site www.
archive.org.
59 "The creator who": "Intellectual Value" by Esther Dyson, in Wired, July 1995.
63 "A web limits risk": "Spider versus Spider" by John Hagel III, in McKinsey
Quarterly, 1966 No. 1.
63 "Players compete not by locking in": "Increasing Returns and the New World
of Business," by W. Brian Arthur, in Harvard Business Review, July 1996.
64 in the 1890s, electricity: "Computer and Dynamo" by Paul David, in
Technology and Productivity, OECD, 1991.
68 "Law is becoming irrelevant": Quoted by David Brin in The Transparent
Society, Addison-Wesley, 1998.
69 boasted of an estimated 120 million: Nua Ltd., May 1998.
69 If current rates continue: International Telecommunications Union 1998 Report.
71 $212 billion on information: Information Technology Industry Council.
72 Rocky Mountain Institute: Home page at www.rmi.org.
72 electronics in a car: "Ubiquitous Computing" by Sean Baenen at Global
Business Network.
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...s%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-notes.html (2 of 4) [12/10/2006 8:48:13 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Notes

75 "The time may come": Pop Internationalism, by Paul Krugman, MIT Press,
1996.
80 "Firms are remarkably creative": Mastering the Dynamics of Innovation, by
James M. Utterback, Harvard Business School Press, 1994.
83 "Successful firms often": "Recent Evolutionary Theorizing About Economic
Change," by Richard Nelson, in Journal of Economic Literature, March 1995.
85 David Ackley: "Interactions Between Learning and Evolution" by David H.
Ackley and M. L. Littman, in Artificial Life II, edited by C. G. Langton, AddisonWesley, 1992.
104 the half-life of Texan businesses: "A Nanaoeconomic Perspective on the
Growth and Development of the Texas Manufacturing Base, 19701991," by
Donald Hicks, in A Report Prepared for the Office of the Comptroller, State of
Texas.
104 the European Union: "A Second American Century" by Mortimer B.
Zuckerman, in Foreign Affairs, May/June 1998.
106 "Youre pitchforking a bunch of freelancers": Bruce Sterlings speech at the
1998 Computers Freedom and Privacy Conference in Austin, Texas.
106 entertainment complex: "Why Every Business Will Be Like Show Business,"
by Joel Kotkin and David Friedman, in Inc, March 1995.
110 "the Mecca of the economist": Quoted by Richard Nelson, in "Recent
Evolutionary Theorizing About Economic Change," by Richard Nelson, in Journal
of Economic Literature, March 1995.
118 an emerging standard called P3P: Maintained by Firefly, www.firefly.net.
122 sites such as Junglee or Jango: www.junglee.com, www.jango.com.
125 "the new economy begins": "Whats So New about the New Economy?" by
Alan Weber, in Harvard Business Review, January/February 1993.
127 "Whatever the Government": "The Telephone TransformedInto Almost
Everything," by James Gleick, in
The New York Times Magazine, May 16, 1993.
128 protocols such as Truste: www.truste.org.
file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...s%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-notes.html (3 of 4) [12/10/2006 8:48:13 PM]

Kevin Kelly -- Notes

134 4 quadrillion dollars: This rough guesstimate was extrapolated from the
annual growth in the worlds GDP. The current global economy is approaching $40
trillion. Since economies grow about 1% annually, the entire active economy can
be considered 1% of the total value of everything created previously, or 4
quadrillion dollars in replacement value.
134 "Humans on average": The Ultimate Resource, by Julian Simon, Princeton
University Press, 1996.
137 More than 320 million web pages: Brewster Kahles internet backup at www.
archive.org.
139 "Productivity isnt everything": The Age of Diminishing Expectations, by Paul
Krugman, MIT Press, 1994.
140 a rise in productivity: The Rise of the Network Society, by Manuel Castells,
Blackwell Publishers, 1996.
141 IBM alone sold: "Mainframe Business, Though Faded, Is Still Far from
Extinct" by Lawrence Fisher, The New York Times, May 18, 1998.
144 "When a merchant sells a consumer": Unlimited Wealth, by Paul Zane Pilzer,
Crown Publishers, 1990.
145 93% of Americans officially classified: Quoting Federal Reserve Bank of
Dallas economist Michael Cox, in an interview in "Wealth If You Want It," by
Kevin Kelly, Wired, November 1996.
14849 28% of U.S. households: "A Second American Century," by Mortimer B.
Zuckerman, in Foreign Affairs, May/June 1998.
150 "Lending to poor people": "Credit where credit is due: Bringing microfinance
into the mainstream," by Peter Montagnon, Center for the Study of Financial
Innovation, February 1998.

file:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/SANTOSH/Des...s%20for%20the%20new%20economy/newrules-notes.html (4 of 4) [12/10/2006 8:48:13 PM]

