The Brand Gap

Marty Neumeier

THE BRAND GAP (REVISED EDITION)
HOW TO BRIDGE THE DISTANCE BETWEEN BUSINESS
STRATEGY AND DESIGN
A WHITEBOARD OVERVIEW BY MARTY NEUMEIER
NEW RIDERS
1249 EIGHTH STREET
BERKELEY, CA 94710
510/524-2178
800/283-9444
510/524-2221 (FAX)
NEW RIDERS IS AN IMPRINT OF PEACHPIT, A DIVISION OF
PEARSON EDUCATION
FIND US ON THE WORLD WIDE WEB AT: WWW.PEACHPIT.COM
TO REPORT ERRORS, PLEASE SEND A NOTE TO
ERRATA@PEACHPIT.COM
COPYRIGHT © 2006 BY MARTY NEUMEIER
PROJECT EDITOR: BECKY MORGAN
PRODUCTION EDITOR: LUPE EDGAR
INDEXER: CHERYL LENSER
BOOK DESIGNER: HEATHER MCDONALD

NOTICE OF RIGHTS
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PART OF THIS BOOK MAY BE
REPRODUCED
OR TRANSMITTED IN ANY FORM BY ANY MEANS,
ELECTRONIC, MECHANICAL, PHOTOCOPYING, RECORDING,

OR OTHERWISE,
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN PERMISSION OF THE
PUBLISHER.
FOR INFORMATION ON GETTING PERMISSION FOR REPRINTS
AND EXCERPTS,
CONTACT PERMISSIONS@PEACHPIT.COM.

NOTICE OF LIABILITY
THE INFORMATION IN THIS BOOK IS DISTRIBUTED ON AN “AS
IS” BASIS WITHOUT WARRANTY.
WHILE EVERY PRECAUTION HAS BEEN TAKEN IN THE
PREPARATION OF THE BOOK,
NEITHER THE AUTHOR NOR PEACHPIT SHALL HAVE ANY
LIABILITY
TO ANY PERSON OR ENTITY WITH RESPECT TO ANY LOSS OR
DAMAGE
CAUSED OR ALLEGED TO BE CAUSED DIRECTLY OR
INDIRECTLY
BY THE INSTRUCTIONS CONTAINED IN THIS BOOK
OR BY THE COMPUTER SOFTWARE AND HARDWARE
PRODUCTS DESCRIBED IN IT.

TRADEMARKS
MANY OF THE DESIGNATIONS USED BY MANUFACTURERS
AND SELLERS
TO DISTINGUISH THEIR PRODUCTS ARE CLAIMED AS
TRADEMARKS.
WHERE THOSE DESIGNATIONS APPEAR IN THIS BOOK,
AND PEACHPIT WAS AWARE OF A TRADEMARK CLAIM,
THE DESIGNATIONS APPEAR AS REQUESTED BY THE OWNER
OF THE TRADEMARK.
ALL OTHER PRODUCT NAMES AND SERVICES IDENTIFIED
THROUGHOUT THIS BOOK
ARE USED IN EDITORIAL FASHION ONLY AND FOR THE
BENEFIT OF SUCH COMPANIES
WITH NO INTENTION OF INFRINGEMENT OF THE
TRADEMARK.
NO SUCH USE, OR THE USE OF ANY TRADE NAME, IS

INTENDED TO CONVEY
ENDORSEMENT OR OTHER AFFILIATION WITH THIS BOOK.

ISBN 0-321-34810-9
98765
PRINTED AND BOUND IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Dedication

TO EILEEN, LA MAGICIENNE DE MON COEUR

Preface

A lot of people talk about it. Yet very few people understand it. Even
fewer know how to manage it. Still, everyone wants it. What is it?
Branding, of course—arguably the most powerful business tool since the
spreadsheet.
In this book I’ve tried to present a 30,000-foot view of brand: what it is
(and isn’t), why it works (and doesn’t), and, most importantly, how to
bridge the gap between logic and magic to build a sustainable
competitive advantage.
While most books on branding present an exhaustive (and sometimes
exhausting) array of examples and studies to support their theses, here
I’ve taken the opposite tack. By presenting the least amount of
information necessary, and by using the shorthand of the conference
room—illustrations, diagrams, and summaries—I hope to bring the big
ideas of branding into sharp focus.
Your time is valuable, so my first goal is to give you a book you can
finish in a short plane ride. My second goal is to give you powerful
principles that will last a career.
—Marty Neumeier

Contents

Introduction
What a Brand Isn’t
Why is Brand Suddenly Hot?
In Verisign We Trust
What’s Your Brand Worth?
Brand Happens
The Brand Gap
Introducing the Charismatic Brand
Discipline 1: Differentiate
Three Little Questions
It’s Different—I Like it
The Evolution of Marketing
Globalism vs. TriBalism
Focus, Focus, Focus
Are You Growing or Harvesting Your Brand?
Discipline 2. Collaborate
It Takes a Village to Build a Brand
The New Collaboratives
Hooray for Hollywood
The Power of Prototypes
Discipline 3. Innovate
Where the Rubber Meets the Road
When Everybody Zigs, Zag
Brand or Bland?
Those Crazy New Names
Icons and Avatars
It’s All Packaging
Does Our Website Look Fat in this Dress?

Discipline 4. Validate
The New Communication Model
People Are Different
Test Is Not a Four-Letter Word
The Myth of Focus Groups
How to Avoid Getting Skewed
The Swap Test
The Concept Test
The Field Test
What are We Looking For?
Discipline 5. Cultivate
The Living Brand
Every Day You Write the Book
The Brand as a Compass
Protecting the Brand
Where Are All the CBOs?
The Virtuous Circle
Take-Home Lessons
Brand Glossary
Recommended Reading
Acknowledgments
Index
About The Author

Introduction

What a Brand Isn’t.

Let’s start with a clean slate. If we wipe away some of the
misconceptions about brand, we can make more room for its truths.
Ready?
First of all, a brand is not a logo. The term LOGO is short for LOGOTYPE,
design-speak for a trademark made from a custom-lettered word (LOGOS
is Greek for WORD). The term logo caught on with people because it
sounds cool, but what people really mean is a trademark, whether the
trademark is a logo, symbol, monogram, emblem, or other graphic

device. IBM uses a monogram, for example, while Nike uses a symbol.
Both are trademarks, but neither are logos. Clear? What really matters
here is that a logo, or any other kind of trademark, is not the brand itself.
It’s merely a symbol for it.
Second, a brand is not a corporate identity system. An identity system is
a 20th-century construct for controlling the use of trademarks and tradedress elements on company publications, advertisements, stationery,
vehicles, signage, and so on. Fifty years ago, lithography was the
communication technology du jour; identity manuals were designed to
dictate the sizes, colors, spacing, and architecture of the printed page.
Today there’s still a need for identity manuals and the visual consistency
they bring. But consistency alone does not create a brand.
Finally, a brand is not a product. Marketing people often talk about
managing their brands, but what they usually mean is managing their
products, or the sales, distribution, and quality thereof. To manage a
brand is to manage something much less tangible—an aura, an invisible
layer of meaning that surrounds the product.
So what exactly is a brand?
A brand is a person’s gut feeling about a product, service, or company.
It’s a GUT FEELING because we’re all emotional, intuitive beings, despite
our best efforts to be rational. It’s a PERSON’S gut feeling, because in the
end the brand is defined by individuals, not by companies, markets, or
the so-called general public. Each person creates his or her own version
of it. While companies can’t control this process, they can influence it by
communicating the qualities that make this product different than that
product. When enough individuals arrive at the same gut feeling, a
company can be said to have a brand. In other words, a brand is not what
YOU say it is. It’s what THEY say it is. A brand is a kind of Platonic ideal
—a concept shared by society to identify a specific class of things. To
use Plato’s example, whenever we hear the word “horse” we visualize a
majestic creature with four legs, a long tail, and a mane falling over a
muscular neck, an impression of power and grace, and the knowledge
that a person can ride long distances on its back. Individual horses may
differ, but in our minds we still recognize their common “horseness.”
Looked at from the other side of the equation, when we add up the parts

that make a horse, the total is distinctive enough so that we think HORSE,
not COW or BICYCLE.
A brand, like Plato’s horse, is an approximate—yet distinct—
understanding of a product, service, or company. To compare a brand
with its competitors, we only need to know what makes it different.
Brand management is the management of differences, not as they exist
on data sheets, but as they exist in the minds of people.

Why is Brand Suddenly Hot?

The idea of brand has been around for at least 5,000 years. So why is it
such a big deal now?
Because as our society has moved from an economy of mass production
to an economy of mass customization, our purchasing choices have
multiplied. We’ve become information-rich and time-poor. As a result,
our old method of judging products—by comparing features and benefits
—no longer works. The situation is exacerbated by competitors who
copy each others’ features as soon as they’re introduced, and by
advances in manufacturing that make quality issues moot.
Today we base our choices more on symbolic attributes. What does the
product look like? Where is it being sold? What kind of people buy it?
Which “tribe” will I be joining if I buy it? What does the cost say about
its desirability? What are other people saying about it? And finally, who
makes it? Because if I can trust the maker, I can buy it now and worry
about it later. The degree of trust I feel towards the product, rather than

an assessment of its features and benefits, will determine whether I’ll
buy this product or that product.

In Verisign We Trust

The history of American currency provides a good demonstration of how
trust relates to branding. After the Revolutionary War, when paper
money was reduced to a fortieth of its previous value, gold and silver
were the only types of currency people could trust. It was nearly a
hundred years before people were willing to accept Silver Certificates as

a substitute for the real thing, even though the new bills were backed by
metal reserves. It took another hundred years before we were ready to
accept Federal Reserve Notes as a substitute for Silver Certificates.
These weren’t backed by reserves at all, but by pure faith in the brand
called America. Now we’ve learned to trust in a system of credit cards
for a large percentage of our transactions. Will we soon be ready to
accept international cyber-currency as an improvement on credit cards?
Sure, if we can trust it.

The Evolution Of Currency Mirrors The Evolution Of Trust.
Trust creation is a fundamental goal of brand design. The complex
flourishes and intricate images employed in the design of the Silver
Certificate were no accident—they were conscious attempts to encourage
trust in what was little more than a symbol for money.
The concept of trust is equally important when we trade our currency—
whether metal, paper, plastic, or cyber—for goods and services. Trust is
the ultimate shortcut to a buying decision, and the bedrock of modern
branding.

What’s Your Brand Worth?

Can you place a dollar value on your company’s brand? You can
certainly try, and for some companies the estimates are astonishing. The
brand consultancy Interbrand routinely publishes a list of the top 100
global brands by valuation. The leader today is Coca-Cola with a brand
worth of nearly $70 billion, which accounts for more than 60% of its
market capitalization. Halfway down the list is Xerox with a brand
valuation of $6 billion—a whopping 93% of its market cap.

If a company’s brand value is such a large part of its assets, why isn’t it
listed on the balance sheet? Good question. But while companies ponder
this, they’re already using brand values as tools to obtain financing, put a
price on licensing deals, evaluate mergers and acquisitions, assess
damages in litigation cases, and justify the price of their stock.
There’s an old saying in business, “What gets measured gets done.” As
brands become more measurable, companies are focusing on ways to
increase their value.
One way is to follow the example of currency: Use design to encourage
trust.

Brand Happens

So far, the eye-opening valuations on Interbrand’s list have happened as
much by chance as by design. While the figures undoubtedly represent a

huge investment in time, energy, money, and study, they’re mostly a side
effect of caring more about sales, service, quality, marketing, and the
myriad other things that occupy a business. For most of us, brand
happens while we’re doing something else.
But what if you could isolate brand from those other endeavors? What if
you could study it, measure it, manage it, and influence it, rather than
just let it happen?
This is precisely what companies are trying to do. They’re appointing
brand managers, who are building brand departments, which are
populated by brand strategists, who are armed with brand research. What
they’re discovering, however, is that it takes more than strategy to build
a brand. It takes strategy and creativity together.
Which brings us to the premise of this book.

The Brand Gap

Strategy and creativity, in most companies, are separated by a mile-wide
chasm. On one side are the strategists and marketing people who favor
left-brain thinking—analytical, logical, linear, concrete, numerical,
verbal. On the other side are the designers and creative people who favor
right-brain thinking—intuitive, emotional, spatial, visual, physical.
Unfortunately, the left brain doesn’t always know what the right brain is
doing. Whenever there’s a rift between strategy and creativity—between
logic and magic—there’s a brand gap. It can cause a brilliant strategy to
fail where it counts most, at the point of contact with the customer, or it
can doom a bold creative initiative before it’s even launched, way back
at the planning stage.
The gulf between strategy and creativity can divide a company from its
customers so completely that no significant communication passes
between them. For the customer, it can be like trying to listen to a stateof-the-art radio through incompatible speakers: The signal comes in
strong, but the sounds are unintelligible.

Introducing the Charismatic Brand

There are two ways to look at the brand gap: 1) it creates a natural
barrier to communication, and 2) it creates a natural barrier to
competition. Companies who learn how to bridge the gap have a
tremendous advantage over those who don’t. When brand
communication comes through intact—crystal clear and potent—it goes
straight into people’s brains without distortion, noise, or the need to think
too much about it. It shrinks the “psychic distance” between companies
and their constituents so that a relationship can begin to develop. These
gap-crossing, distance-shrinking messages are the building blocks of a
charismatic brand.
You can tell which brands are charismatic, because they’re a constant
topic in the cultural conversation. Brands such as Coca-Cola, Apple,
Nike, IBM, Virgin, IKEA, BMW, and Disney have become modern icons
because they stand for things that people want—i.e., joy, intelligence,
strength, success, comfort, style, motherly love, and imagination.
Smaller brands can also be charismatic. Companies such as John Deere,
Google, Cisco, Viking, Palm, Tupperware, and Trane all exert a
magnetic influence over their audiences. When an AC contractor reads
the tagline, “It’s hard to stop a Trane,” he thinks, “Damn straight.”
A charismatic brand can be defined as any product, service, or company
for which people believe there’s no substitute. Not surprisingly,
charismatic brands often claim the dominant position in their categories,
with market shares of 50% or higher. They also tend to command the
highest price premiums—up to 40% more than generic products or
services. And, most importantly, they’re the least likely to fall victim to
commoditization.

Among the hallmarks of a charismatic brand are a clear competitive
stance, a sense of rectitude, and a dedication to aesthetics. Why
aesthetics? Because it’s the language of feeling, and, in a society that’s
information-rich and time-poor, people value feeling more than
information.
Aesthetics is so powerful that it can turn a commodity into a premium
product. Don’t believe me? Look at Morton. Ordinary table salt is the
ultimate commodity—unless it has a little girl on the package.
There are no dull products, only dull brands. Any brand, backed by
enough courage and imagination, can become a charismatic brand. But
first you need to master the five disciplines of branding.

Discipline 1. Differentiate

Three Little Questions

Wanna bring a high-level marketing meeting to a screeching halt? Just do
what brand consultant Greg Galle of Creative Capital does—demand
unambiguous answers to three little questions:
1) Who are you?
2) What do you do?
3) Why does it matter?
Now, the first question is fairly easy for most companies to answer.
“We’re Global Grommets, a multinational provider of grommets.” The
second question is a little harder. “We make grommets—no, we make
more than grommets, because we have a full line of widgets, too.” But
the third question, why it matters, can get sticky. “It matters because we
make really good grommets—and widgets.” (Sure, but everyone says
that.) “Because we sell the widest selection of grommets and widgets.”
(Right, but I only need one kind of grommet, and I already buy it from
someone else.) “Because we have the best people.” (Yeah, right—prove
it.) Unless you have compelling answers to all three questions, meaning

that customers find them irresistible, you haven’t got a brand. If you do
have compelling answers, great—you can skip this chapter.
Still reading? Thought so. Because most companies have occasional
trouble answering the first question, a little trouble answering the second,
and a lot of trouble answering the third. Together, these questions
provide a litmus test for what makes you different, what gives your
company its raison d’etre.
A good example of a company that knows what it’s about is John Deere.
“We’re John Deere. We make farm tractors and related equipment. It
matters because generations of farmers have trusted our equipment.”
Their trademark is a silhouette of a leaping stag, and their tagline is
“Nothing runs like a Deere.” As long as the Deere folks can keep it this
simple, their brand will keep running. If they begin to add too many
UNRELATED products and services to their line, however, their
message will turn muddy and their brand will get stuck. Let’s say, for
example, that they decide to hedge their bets by adding health care, real
estate, and fertilizer to the mix. How would they then differentiate their
brand? “We’re John Deere. You know us for tractors, but we do much
more. It matters because you can come to us for lots of things.” (Hmm, I
think I’ll buy a Kubota.)
Clorox is a company that understands differentiation. When Clorox
purchased Hidden Valley ranch dressing, their marketing people had the
good sense not to add it to their product line and rename it Clorox
Hidden Valley. In fact, the name Clorox has never appeared on any of
Hidden Valley’s packages, advertisements, or other marketing materials.
Yet you’d be surprised at how many companies have violated common
sense and paid the price. The lesson? Keep it pure, keep it different.

Dressing, Anyone?

It’s Different—I Like it

Differentiation works because of the way the human cognitive system
works. Our brain acts as a filter to protect us from the vast amount of
irrelevant information that surrounds us every day. To keep us from
drowning in triviality, it learns to tell things apart. We get data from our
senses, then compare it to data from earlier experiences, and put it into a
category. Thus we can differentiate between a dog and a lion, a shadow
and a crevasse, or an edible mushroom and a poisonous one (usually).
The sense we rely on mostly is sight. Our visual system is hardwired to
discern the differences between the things we see, starting with the
biggest differences and working down to the smallest. It looks for
contrasts. It recognizes the differences between subject and ground, big
and small, dark and light, rough and smooth, fat and thin, motionless and
moving. Then the brain takes over and begins to make meaning. It

recognizes differences such as those between near and far, old and new,
light and heavy, peaceful and aggressive, simple and complex, easy and
difficult.

The traditional view of design is that it has four possible goals: to
identify, to inform, to entertain, or to persuade. But with branding there’s
a fifth: to differentiate. While the first four are tactical, the fifth is
strategic, with its roots deep in aesthetics—a powerful combination of
logic and magic.

The Evolution of Marketing

As we’ve moved from a one-size-fits-all economy to a masscustomization economy, the attention of marketing has shifted from
features, to benefits, to experience, to tribal identification. In other
words, selling has evolved from an emphasis on “what it has,” to “what
it does,” to “what you’ll feel,” to “who you are.” This shift demonstrates
that, while features and benefits are still important to people, personal
identity has become even more important.
Cognitive expert Edward de Bono once advised marketers that, instead
of building a brand on USP (the Unique Selling Proposition of a
product), they should pay more attention to “UBS” (the Unique Buying
State of their customers). He was ahead of his time in predicting the rise
of consumer-centric marketing.

The success of the Nike brand is ample proof that de Bono’s concept
works. As a weekend athlete, my two nagging doubts are that I might be
congenitally lazy, and that I might have little actual ability. I’m not really
worried about my shoes. But when the Nike folks say, “Just do it,”
they’re peering into my soul. I begin to feel that, if they understand me
that well, their shoes are probably pretty good. I’m then willing to join
the tribe of Nike.

Globalism vs. Tribalism

We’ve heard a lot of talk about globalism—the knocking down of
national, economic, and cultural barriers to create a single society. In the
1960s Marshall McLuhan envisioned a world so connected by
technology that the old divisions would disappear, made obsolete by a
massive “global village.” Forty years later we have no global village, and
we probably never will, at least in the usual sense of a village—an
intimate community united by a single language and culture. Instead we
have a global communication network, an electronic layer on top of the
old divisions that influences them and adds to them, but doesn’t replace
them.
The fact is, we need divisions just as much as we need ways to transcend
them. Without barriers there would be no safety—against war, disease,
natural disaster, a feeling of alienation, of being lost in an uncaring
world. The faster globalism removes barriers, the faster people erect new
ones. They create intimate worlds they can understand, and where they
can be somebody and feel as if they belong. They create tribes.
If you stretch the concept of tribe just a little, you can see that a brand
creates a kind of tribe. Depending on your Unique Buying State, you can
join any number of tribes on any number of days and feel part of
something bigger than yourself. You can belong to the Callaway tribe
when you play golf, the VW tribe when you drive to work, and the
Williams-Sonoma tribe when you cook a meal. You’re part of a select
clan (or so you feel) when you buy products from these clearly
differentiated companies. Brands are the little gods of modern life, each
ruling a different need, activity, mood, or situation. Yet you’re in control.
If your latest god falls from Olympus, you can switch to another one.

Focus, Focus, Focus

These are the three most important words in branding. The danger is
rarely too much focus, but too little. An unfocused brand is one that’s so
broad that it doesn’t stand for anything. A focused brand, by contrast,
knows exactly what it is, why it’s different, and why people want it.
Yet focus is difficult to achieve because it means giving something up. It
runs counter to our most basic marketing instinct: If we narrow our
offering, won’t we narrow our opportunities for profit? Answer: Not

necessarily. It’s often better to be number one in a small category than to
be number three in a large one. At number three your strategy may have
to include a low price, whereas at number one you can charge a
premium. History has shown that it pays handsomely to be number one
in your category—first, because of higher margins, and second, because
the risk of commoditization is almost nonexistent. Yet number two can
also be profitable, despite a smaller market share. Number three, or four,
or five, however, may only be worth the effort if you think you have a
realistic shot at becoming number two someday.
Can’t be number one or number two? Redefine your category. The
industrial-strength software product Framemaker only made it to number
three as a word-processing product, but as a document-publishing
product it quickly became number one, with double its previous sales.
All it took was a change of focus.
Competition forces specialization. The law of the jungle is “survival of
the fittingest,” and the smart company doesn’t wait to be forced. In the
competitive world of automobiles, for example, Volvo built a bulletproof
brand when it turned a heavy, boxy vehicle into the “safe” alternative, a
market niche they were able to own and defend for many years. Was that
good enough for Volvo? Apparently not, because they’ve recently added
fast, sexy vehicles to their lineup. Time will tell if the concept of raciness
is compatible with the concept of safety. In trying to satisfy every desire,
Volvo may be weaving recklessly down the road toward no man’s brand.

Are You Growing or Harvesting Your Brand?

Brand guru David Aaker likens growing a brand to managing a timber
reserve: You plant new trees for future profit and you harvest old trees
for profits today. The trick with brand is to know which is which. What
may seem like growing a brand may actually be harvesting it. Take line
extensions. When you have a successful product or service, a nearly
irresistible temptation is to “leverage” the brand, to extend it into a
family. It makes complete sense—except when it doesn’t.
Brand extensions make sense when new additions to the family serve to
strengthen the meaning of the brand, adding mass and definition to
whatever it is that makes it different. In the supermarket, a good example
of growth by brand extension is Oxo Good Grips, the clever line of hand
tools whose every new addition reinforces its ownership of the easygrip/high-style/black-and-white-pack category.
Brand extensions make less sense when they’re driven by a desire for
short-term profits without regard to focus. What makes them especially
seductive is that they can work remarkably well in the short term, even
as they undermine the position of the brand. A recent example of
defocusing by brand extension is the Cayenne, an SUV from Porsche. In
a single misguided stroke, Porsche has pulled the rug out from under its
reputation as a maker of classic sports cars. They maintain that the
Cayenne is an example of Porsche innovation, but Porsche fans will say
it’s a grab for profits in a tired market. Had Porsche invented the SUV,
people might see it as innovation, but at the tail-end of the trend it looks
more like greed—especially since Porsche is already highly profitable.
Naturally, the new car will sell. It’s got the revered Porsche styling,
engineering, and pedigree, all of which can be harvested through line
extension. But the question is, what does Porsche now stand for?
Even in the best of times, the principle of focus is a hard mistress,
demanding fidelity, courage, and determination. And when a company
faces additional pressure from stockholder expectations, political
infighting, unexpected competition, or changes in management, there’s a
temptation to extend the product line for short-term relief, even at the
expense of its market position. Resist, because the long-term survival of

a brand depends on staying focused. As positioning expert Jack Trout
succinctly puts it, “differentiate or die.”

Discipline 2. Collaborate

It Takes a Village to Build a Brand

In her book, THE NATURE OF ECONOMIES, Jane Jacobs writes that economic
development is not just expansion, but differentiation emerging from
generality, much like evolutionary or embryological development in
nature. Moreover, she says, differentiation depends on codevelopment—
no entity, natural or economic, evolves in isolation.
Brands don’t develop in isolation, either. They result from the interaction
of thousands of people over a long period of time. Branding requires not
only the work of executives and marketing people who manage the
brand, but an ever-changing roster of strategy consultants, design firms,
advertising agencies, research companies, PR firms, industrial designers,
environmental designers, and so on. It also requires the valuable
contributions of employees, suppliers, distributors, partners,
stockholders, and customers—an entire branding community. It takes a
village to build a brand.
Building a brand today is a little like building a cathedral during the
Renaissance. It took hundreds of craftsmen scores of years, even
generations, to complete a major edifice. Each craftsman added his own
piece to the project—a carving, a window, a fresco, a dome—always

keeping an eye on the total effect. Like yesterday’s cathedrals, many of
today’s brands are too large and too complex to be managed by one
person or one department. They require teams of specialists, sharing
ideas and coordinating the efforts across a creative network.
Management guru Peter Drucker maintains that the most important shift
in business today is from “ownership” to “partnership,” and from
“individual tasks” to “collaboration.” The successful company is not the
one with the most brains, he suggests, but the most brains acting in
concert. Brand managers and communication firms are responding to this
new challenge in a number of interesting ways.

The New Collaboratives

Today there are three basic models for managing brand collaboration: 1)
outsourcing the brand to a one-stop shop, 2) outsourcing it to a brand

agency, and 3) stewarding the brand internally with an integrated
marketing team. All three models are forward-thinking responses to the
problem, because they recognize brand as a network activity. Let’s
examine them one at a time.
The first model, the one-stop shop, has its roots in early 20th-century
branding, when companies routinely consigned large portions of their
communications to a single firm, typically an advertising agency. The
advertising agency would conduct research, develop strategy, create
campaigns, and measure the results. The main benefit was efficiency,
since one person within the client company could direct the entire brand
effort. As branding has grown more complex, so has the one-stop shop.
Today’s one-stop is either a single multi-disciplinary firm, or a holding
company with a collection of specialist firms. The advantages of the onestop shop are an ability to unify a message across media, and ease of
management for the client. The drawbacks are that the various
disciplines are not usually the best of breed, and, in effect, the company
cedes stewardship of the brand to the one-stop shop.

The second model, the brand agency, is a variation of the one-stop
concept. With this model the client works with a lead agency (an
advertising agency, design firm, PR firm, strategy firm, or other brand
firm), which helps assemble a team of specialist firms to work on the
brand. The brand agency leads the project, and may even act as a
contractor, paying the other firms as subcontractors. The advantages of
this model are the ability to unify a message across media, and the
freedom to work with best-of-breed specialists. A drawback is that
stewardship of the brand still resides more with the brand agency than
with the client company.

The third model, the integrated marketing team, bears little resemblance
to the traditional outsourcing model. It sees branding as a continuous
network activity that needs to be controlled from within the company. In
this model, best-of-breed specialist firms are selected to work alongside
internal marketing people on a virtual “superteam,” which is then
“coached” by the company’s design manager. The advantages of this
model are the ability to unify a message across media, the freedom to
work with best-of-breed specialists, plus internal stewardship. This last
benefit is important, because it means that brand knowledge can accrue
to the company, instead of vanishing through a revolving door with the

last firm to work on it. A drawback of an integrated marketing team is
that it requires a strong internal team to run it.
Of course, while these three types of collaboratives seem tidy in print,
they’re messier in practice. Companies are mixing and matching aspects
of all three models as they grope their way to a new collaborative
paradigm. Still others are behind the curve, unaware that there’s a
revolution afoot.

Hooray for Hollywood

According to a recent McKinsey report, the next economy will see a
significant rise in network organizations—groups of “unbundled”
companies cooperating across the value chain to deliver products and
services to customers. By owning fewer assets and leveraging the
resources of partner companies, these network orchestrators require less
capital, return higher revenues per employee, and spread the risks of a
volatile market across the network.
The network organization isn’t new; a successful model of unbundling
has existed for years. It’s called Hollywood.
A half-century ago, the major Hollywood studios not only owned the
soundstages and backlots necessary for their movies, but also the
producers, directors, writers, actors, cinematographers, musicians, PR
specialists, and distributors. Some even built theater chains for the
exclusive use of their own properties. As the dream machines cranked
out hundreds of look-alike movies to feed their growing overhead,

movie-making began to slide from craft to commodity. The independents
soon learned how to end-run the mega-studios by producing high-quality
“little” films and low-budget B-movies.
What happened next? The big studios learned from the small ones, and
began unbundling their vertically integrated companies. By switching to
a network model, the studios could avail themselves of the best talent for
each project, thereby creating unique products and shedding unnecessary
overhead. In reversing the trend toward commoditization, they
encouraged the growth of an artisan community, not unlike those that
grew up around the cathedrals of Europe. Like the cathedral-builders,
Hollywood specialists don’t see themselves as technicians, but as
craftspeople working in a creative network.
Hollywood isn’t unique, just more evolved than other industries. In the
1980s, Silicon Valley faced a similar challenge when Japan threatened to
walk away with its franchise in microchips, duplicating their features and
undercutting prices. Valley companies quickly discovered the value of
open collaboration, producing ever-more-advanced systems and
components that kept them one step ahead of the copycats.
In the mid-1990s I was privileged to be a member of the superteam that
launched Netscape Navigator, along with related products and services.
My firm developed the Navigator icon and the retail package, while
other firms, including an advertising agency, a web design firm, a PR
group, and an exhibit design firm, worked on their own pieces to help
launch the product at warp speed. This example of “parallel processing”
showed how collaboration can yield not only quality but quickness.
Netscape was formed in 1994, went public in 1995, and was absorbed
into AOL by 1999. During this short period, it launched more than a
dozen products and changed the direction of computing.
Thanks to the Hollywood model, design managers are now learning how
to assemble top-notch teams of specialists, inspire them to work together
productively—even joyfully—then disband them when the project’s
over, only to reassemble them in a different configuration for the next
project. The lesson hasn’t been lost on other industries. Soon every
knowledge-based business will adopt some version of the Hollywood
model, and, years from now, many will undoubtedly agree with Noel
Coward’s statement that “work was more fun than fun.”

The Netscape Brand Was Built On The Hollywood Model.

The Power of Prototypes

Not all Hollywood movies are hits, but very few are bombs. They’re
usually saved from that ignominious fate by the use of prototypes—
scripts and storyboards. The script is the prototype for the story, and the
storyboard is the prototype for production. Any major problems with the
movie can be corrected at the prototype stage, long before much money
is spent. The script and the storyboard, once approved, keep all the
collaborators on track, from the director to the continuity person.
Branding projects use prototypes as well. Instead of a script, brand
collaborators rely on a creative brief; instead of a storyboard, they use
mockups or drafts. What makes prototypes so powerful, to borrow a
phrase from Tom Kelley of the industrial design firm IDEO, is that they
provide a “near life” experience for the collaborators. Everyone on the
team, from the brand manager to the design intern, can immediately
sense whether the concept will work in the real world. No amount of
talking or arm-waving can accomplish this feat as well as prototypes.

Prototypes can also cut through the “red tape” of marketing documents.
Instead of starting with a list of features and working toward a concept,
team members can go straight to a concept, then add whatever features
are needed to support it. And if the concept looks like a loser? Hey—it’s
just a concept—start over with a new one. Since a brand is a person’s gut
feeling about a product, service, or company, gut feeling is the fastest
way to get there. Prototypes create a playground for collaborative ideas,
allowing ample space for the right side of the brain to work its magic.

Discipline 3. Innovate

Where the Rubber Meets the Road

A combination of good strategy and poor execution is like a Ferrari with
flat tires. It looks good in the specs, but fails on the street. This is the
case for at least half the brand communication done today. Don’t take my
word for it—pick up a copy of your favorite magazine and leaf through
the ads. How many actually touch your emotions? Will you remember
any of them tomorrow? If not, it’s probably the fault of execution, not
strategy. Execution—read creativity—is the most difficult part of the
branding mix to control. It’s magic, not logic, that ignites passion in
customers.
Our cultural distrust in creativity goes back to the Enlightenment, when
we discovered the awesome power of rational thinking. The movement
became so successful that rational thinking became the only thinking—at
least the only thinking you could trust. Yet in spite of our continuing
reverence for rationality, we don’t really do many things by logic. Our
best thinking depends more on the “illogical” skills of intuition and
insight, which may explain why logical argument rarely convinces
anyone of anything important.

Benjamin Franklin, despite being a child of the Enlightenment, showed
both intuition and insight when he observed: “Would you persuade,
speak of interest, not of reason.”
Innovation requires creativity, and creativity gives many business people
a twitch. Anything new, by definition, is untried, and therefore unsafe.
Yet when you ask executives where they expect to find their most
sustainable competitive advantage, what do they answer? Innovation.
Because the truth is, innovation lies at the heart of both better design and
better business. It magnifies drive inside the organization. It slashes the
costs of inefficiency, duplication, and corporate ennui. It confers the
ability to produce uncommon, yet practical, responses to real problems.

When Everybody Zigs, Zag

Would-be leaders in any industry must come to grips with a self-evident
truth—you can’t be a leader by following. Admittedly, it’s difficult to
zag when every bone in your body says zig. Human beings are social
animals—our natural inclination is to go with the group.
Creativity, however, demands the opposite. It requires an unnatural act.
To achieve originality we need to abandon the comforts of habit, reason,
and the approval of our peers, and strike out in new directions. In the
world of branding, creativity doesn’t require reinventing the wheel, but
simply thinking in fresh ways. It requires looking for what industrial
designer Raymond Loewy called MAYA—the Most Advanced Yet
Acceptable solution. Creative professionals excel at MAYA. While
market researchers describe how the world is, creative people describe
how it could be. Their thinking is often so fresh that they zag even when
they should zig. But without fresh thinking, there’s no chance of magic.

An effective use of the MAYA principle was the career of The Beatles.
They began in the early 1960s with songs that were commonly
acceptable, then raised the bar of innovation one record at a time. By the
end of the decade, they had taken their audience on a wild ride from the
commonplace to the sublime, and in the process created the anthems for
a cultural revolution. Their formula? As one critic observed: “They never
did the same thing once.”

Audiences Want More Than Logic.

Brand or Bland?

Q: How do you know when an idea is innovative?
A: When it scares the hell out of everybody.
A friend of mine once observed that the only thing worse than the fear of
death is the “fear of stupid.” Some companies are so afraid of appearing
less than dignified that they settle for proud, stiff, or inhuman. Against
this backdrop of stuffed shirts, smart companies have an excellent
chance to stand out—to zag. The Volkswagen Bug did it to great effect in
the 1960s (and again in the 1990s) by using self-deprecating humor as a
strategic weapon. But humor is only one way to surprise people. Mostly
it just takes the guts to be different.
Of course, while audiences may reward guts, corporations usually don’t.
Japanese salarymen have a saying: “The nail that sticks up gets
hammered down.” Corporate America has a similar saying: “Don’t rock

the boat.” No wonder people are afraid of signing off on new ideas—by
keeping your head down you’re more likely to keep it attached. Then
where will innovation come from? Most likely from the outside, or from
people inside who think outside.

Those Crazy New Names

Agilent, Agilis, Ajilon, and Agere. Advantix, Advantis, Adventis, and
Advanta. Actuant, Equant, Guidant, and Reliant. Prodigy, Certegy,
Centegy, and Tality. Why are there so many sound-alike names? The
short answer is this: Most of the good names are taken. Between a rising
tide of startups on one hand, and a flood of URLs on the other,
companies are continually forced to dive deeper for workable names.
The latest trend is to push the boundaries of dignity with names like
Yahoo!, Google, FatSplash, and Jamcracker. Where will it end?
It won’t. The need for good brand names originates with customers, and
customers will always want convenient ways of identifying,
remembering, discussing, and comparing brands. The right name can be
a brand’s most valuable asset, driving differentiation and speeding
acceptance. The wrong name can cost millions, even billions, in
workarounds and lost income over the lifetime of the brand. George
Bernard Shaw’s advice applies to brands as well as people: “Take care to
get born well.”
Of course, some names haven’t been created so much as inherited. A
good example of a heritage name is Smuckers, which marketing people
have often cited as a bad name with a clever spin. “With a name like
Smuckers, it has to be good,” goes the well-known slogan. But Smuckers

was a good name from day one—distinctive, short, spellable,
pronounceable, likable, portable, and protectable. And while the
company presents it as slightly silly, the name benefits strongly from
onomatopoeia. “Smuckers” sounds like smacking lips, the preverbal
testament to a yummy jam.

Another heritage name is Carl Zeiss, the maker of optical lenses. Does
Zeiss make great lenses? Who knows? But the name makes the lenses
“sound” great. The word “Zeiss” has hints of “glass” and “precise,” and
evokes thoughts of German technological superiority. The name works
so well that it can stretch to include high-end sunglasses and other
precision products without the risk of breakage.
Generally speaking, high-imagery names are more memorable than lowimagery names. Names constructed from Greek and Latin root words
tend to be low-imagery names. Accenture and Innoveda come to mind.
Names that use Anglo-Saxon words, or the names of people, tend to be
high-imagery names, producing vivid mental pictures that aid recall.
Think of Apple Computer and Betty Crocker. Some of most powerful
names are those that combine well with a visual treatment to create a
memorable brand icon.
The 7 Criteria For A Good Name:
1

Distinctiveness. Does it stand out from the crowd, especially
from other names in its class? Does it separate well from

ordinary text and speech? The best brand names have the
“presence” of a proper noun.
2

Brevity. Is it short enough to be easily recalled and used? Will it
resist being reduced to a nickname? Long multi-word names
will be quickly shortened to non-communicating initials.

3

Appropriateness. Is there a reasonable fit with the business
purpose of the entity? If it would work just as well—or better
—for another entity, keep looking.

4

Easy Spelling And Pronunciation. Will most people be able to
spell the name after hearing it spoken? Will they be able to
pronounce it after seeing it written? A name shouldn’t turn into
a spelling test or make people feel ignorant.

5

Likability. Will people enjoy using it? Names that are
intellectually stimulating, or provide a good “mouth feel,” have
a headstart over those that don’t.

6

Extendibility. Does it have “legs”? Does it suggest a visual
interpretation or lend itself to a number of creative executions?
Great names provide endless opportunities for brandplay.

7

Protectability. Can it be trademarked? Is it available for web
use? While many names can be trademarked, some names are
more defensible than others, making them safer and more
valuable in the long run.

Avatars Run Circles Around Logos.

Icons and Avatars

A brand icon is a name and visual symbol that communicate a market
position. An avatar is an icon that can move, morph, or otherwise operate
freely as the brand’s alter ego. For icon, think Shell; for avatar, think
Cingular. Icons can sometimes be upgraded to avatars, as AT&T has
done by animating its striped globe icon in its TV spots.
Logos are dead! Long live icons and avatars! Why? Because logos as we
know them—logo-types, monograms, abstract symbols, and other twodimensional trademarks—are products of the printing press and mass
communication. They evolved as a way to identify brands rather than to
differentiate them. Today marketers realize that branding is not about
stamping a trademark on anything that moves. It’s about managing
relationships between the company and its constituents, conducting a
conversation among many people over many channels. We still have the
printing press at our beck and call, but we also have the Internet, TV,
telemarketing, live events, and other media to work with. Icons and
avatars respond to this new reality by jumping off the printed page and
interacting with people wherever they are.

Aristotle was a born brander. He believed that “perception starts with the
eye,” and that “the greatest thing by far is to be a master of metaphor.”
These two principles create the basis of brand icons. Cognitive scientists
estimate that more than half the brain is dedicated to the visual system,
adding weight to the argument that a trademark should be strongly
visual. Yet it can also involve other senses, including smell, touch, taste,
or hearing. Take for example, the auditory counterpart to an icon,
sometimes called an “earcon.” The experience of flying United Airlines
is now inextricably linked to Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue,” and the
Intel Inside brand would be less memorable without its “bong” sound
bite.
When conceived well, an icon is a repository of meaning. It contains the
DNA of the brand, the basic material for creating a total personality
distinct from the competition. The meanings that are packed into the icon
can be unpacked at will and woven into all the brand communications,
from advertising to signage, from web pages to trade show booths, from
packaging to the products themselves. An avatar goes even further by
becoming the symbolic actor in a continuing brand story. As trademarks
go from two dimensions to three and four dimensions, the old-style logo
may begin to seem more like a tintype than a motion picture.

Who Can Hear Rhapsody in Blue Without Thinking of United?

It’s All Packaging

While not all brands are products and not all products are sold at retail, a
book on brand would be remiss to ignore the importance of packaging.
For many products, the package is the branding. It’s also the last and best
chance to influence a prospect this side of the checkout counter.
In some retail environments, such as the supermarket, it’s possible for a
package to reach 100% of people shopping in that category. For several
seconds, or even a few precious minutes, the shopper is completely
focused on the differences among brands. Previous intentions to buy one
product over another are suddenly put aside and memories of past
advertising are shoved into the background as the competing packages
go “mano a mano” for the shopper’s attention. This is known as a
branding moment.
Retail brand managers funnel a large portion of their marketing budgets
into package design, because the return on investment is likely to be
higher with packaging than with advertising, promotion, public relations,
or other spending options. For many retail products, packaging not only
makes the final sale, it strikes a significant blow for the brand, since
experience with the product is often the best foundation for customer
loyalty.
Marketers know this, but they’re not sure what makes it work. How,
exactly, does one package beat another at the point of sale? How much of
the battle is won by logic and how much by magic? Is it science or art?
As you might guess, it’s both. But since most marketers favor left-brain
thinking, most packages end up heavy on facts and light on emotion, the
ingredient customers want most. Instead, customers are greeted with
features, benefits, and what one shopper I interviewed called “scientific
mumbo jumbo.”
Before you can create emotion with a package, however, you need to
understand the natural reading sequence of your category. It so happens
that customers process messages in a certain order, depending on the
product, and messages presented out of order go unheeded.
Here’s an example of a typical reading sequence: 1) the shopper notices
the package on the shelf—the result of good colors, strong contrast, an
arresting photo, bold typography, or other technique; 2) the shopper

mentally asks “What is it?,” bringing the product name and category into
play; 3) then “Why should I care?,” which is best answered with a very
brief why-to-buy message; 4) which in turn elicits a desire for more
information to define and support the why-to-buy message; 5) the
shopper is finally ready for the “mumbo-jumbo” necessary to make a
decision—features, price, compatibilities, guarantees, awards, or
whatever the category dictates.

When you present these pieces of information in a natural reading
sequence, you increase their resonance and create a sympathetic bond
with the customer. But if you lead off with features when the customer
simply wants to know why she should care, the message that may come
through is this: “Our product’s features are more important than your
interests.” Advertising pioneer David Ogilvy often claimed that by
changing a single word in a headline one could increase effectiveness of
an advertisement by up to ten times. In my own practice, I’ve proven (at
least to myself) that by getting the reading sequence right, and by
connecting product features to customer emotions, a package can
increase product sales by up to three times, sometimes more.

But what if you don’t sell at retail? No matter. The principles used in
successful packaging—clarity, emotion, and a natural reading sequence
—apply to every type of brand design. When you think about it,
branding is simply a convenient package for a business idea.

Does Our Website Look Fat in this Dress?

The award for Most Egregious Disregard of Natural Reading Sequence
goes to...that’s right, the World Wide Web. Arguably the most promising
medium of our time, the web took off like a rocket, but failed to escape
the dense atmosphere of its own hype. That’s because the web, while a
technical achievement, has been a usability nightmare. It began as the
brainchild of a colony of feature-loving geeks, who fed it capability after
capability until it became a hydra-head of non-information.
Most of today’s home pages ignore the basic rules of visual aesthetics,
including contrast, legibility, pacing, and reading sequence. Uncultivated
websites shove a tangle of unruly data in your face, then expect YOU to
sort it out: a typical home page tries to squeeze an average of 25 pieces
of information, some of it animated, into an area the size of a
handkerchief. The closest relative of today’s web page is a newspaper
page, yet most home pages make newspaper pages seem easy to

navigate. The concept of a natural reading sequence has yet to reach the
bastion of bad taste we fondly call the web.

Which Site Looks

Easier To Use?
Okay, let’s be fair. The designers of newspapers, books, movies, and
television have had more time to refine their aesthetic “best practices.”
Television shows were pretty hokey until the networks became big
business and competition forced the issue. But what exactly are the
invisible chains keeping web design from achieving its full potential? It
boils down to three: technophobia, turfismo, and featuritis.
TECHNOPHOBIA,

the fear of new technology, keeps a lot of skilled
designers out of web design. They’re mostly afraid the technical
demands of the medium will engulf their projects, leaving little time to
work on the aesthetics. The result is that most web design, thus deprived
of disciplined designers, still falls below the aesthetic level considered
standard for catalogs, annual reports, and books.
TURFISMO, the second problem, is the behind-the-screen politicking that

transforms the home page into a patchwork of tiny fiefdoms. You can see
exactly which departments have the power and which don’t, as turfy

managers fight for space on the company marquee. Simplify the home
page? Sure, but not at my expense!
Finally, FEATURITIS, an infectious desire for MORE, afflicts everyone from
the CEO to the programmer. The tendency to add features, articles,
graphics, animations, links, buttons, bells, and whistles comes naturally
to most people. The ability to subtract features is the rare gift of the true
communicator. An oft-heard excuse for cluttered pages is that most
people hate clicking, and prefer to see all their choices on one page. The
truth is, most people LIKE clicking—they just hate waiting. Eternal
waiting, along with confusion and clutter, are the real enemies of
communication. Put your website on a diet. You’ll find that subtraction,
not addition, is the formula for clear communication.
All brand innovation, whether for a website, a package, a product, an
event, or an ad campaign, should be aimed at creating a positive
experience for the user. The trick is in knowing which experience will be
the MOST positive—even before you commit to it.

Discipline 4. Validate

The New Communication Model

The standard model for communication has three components: sender,
message, and receiver. The sender (your company) develops a message
(web page, ad, brochure, direct mail piece, etc.) and sends it to a receiver
(your target audience). Communication complete.
What this model fails to recognize is that real–world communication is a
dialog. I say something to you, you say something back. You may say it
only to yourself, like when you read a magazine ad, but your brain is
nevertheless an indispensible component of the total communication
system. You respond by buying the advertised brand, or by mentally
storing the information for future use, or by simply turning the page.
With the standard communication model, the sender doesn’t know—and
seemingly doesn’t care—how the receiver actually responded.

The standard model is an antique. Today we can no longer afford to close
our eyes, catapult a message into the ether, cross our fingers, and hope
that it hits the target. Companies need feedback. Feedback turns
communication into something more like a theatre performance than a
magazine. If we’re dying on stage, the audience lets us know. The
feedback is immediate and unambiguous, which lets us make appropriate
changes before the next performance.

When we solicit feedback from customers, the communication model has
a fourth component. The sender creates a message, sends it to a receiver,
and, instead of stopping there, the communication continues as the
receiver sends a message back. With every turn around the feedback
loop, the communication gets stronger and more focused. The new
model is a blueprint for revolution. It transforms marketing
communication into a contact sport, and spectators into full participants.

People Are Different

Over the last 15 years my firm has store-tested hundreds of package
designs. When we first adopted this practice, the reactions of shoppers to
our prototypes often differed in the extreme. One shopper would love
design A, but hate—I mean HATE—design B. We began to realize that the
audience for one product was likely to be different than the audience for
another, and that its taste in design was also likely to be different. A little
more delving revealed a fundamental split between two main personality
types, those who relied mostly on hard information (facts) to make a
purchase, and those who relied mostly on soft information (feelings).
Eventually we were able to diagram the shades of difference we found in
the shoppers we encountered. The chart at the left divides the world into
four mindsets, based on people’s job interests: applying, creating,

preserving, and discovering. “Appliers,” for example, gravitate toward
graphics that are precise, realistic, and familiar, while “creators” go for
the lyrical, abstract, and novel. Guess what? If you divide the chart down
the middle, you have an approximate map of the left and right brain.

Test Is Not a Four-Letter Word

Unfortunately, audience research has gotten a bad rap from the creative
community. It seems as if every third book on design and advertising
contains a diatribe on the evils of market research. Such views are
comforting to the creative crowd because they can absolve one’s
responsibility to everything but one’s own artistic soul. As a creative
person, I can bear witness to the seductive qualities of these anti-research
arguments. And what makes them doubly seductive is that they’re
usually delivered by the superstars of their professions.
Any designer or advertising creative who has pored over stacks of
research documents, or puzzled over the charts, graphs, and numerical
detritis of serious marketing studies, may well conclude that researchers
are paid by the page. The normal reaction of any red-blooded rightbrainer is to politely take the documents, toss them in a corner, and get
on with the job of being creative.
An aversion to research has been known in the boardrooms of some of
the world’s most innovative companies. Sony founder Akio Morita
believed that testing new ideas was folly. “Our plan is to LEAD the
public,” he said. “They do not know what is possible.” Even back in the
command-and-control days of the production line, Henry Ford’s decision
to manufacture automobiles was driven by intuition rather than market
research. “If we had asked the public what they wanted,” he explained,
“they would have said ‘faster horses.’”
Innovators often feel that using research is like trying to chart the future
in a rearview mirror. They’ve seen too many products and messages
aimed where the audience was last sighted, instead of where it’s likely to
be tomorrow. Okay, creativity is subjective, but it’s only subjective until
it reaches the marketplace—then it’s measurable. Ford’s and Sony’s

innovations certainly were measured, not by research, but by the market
itself.
But what if you could test your most innovative ideas BEFORE they got to
market? Couldn’t testing help you protect a potential breakthrough from
the “fear of stupid”? Absolutely. And if you can’t exactly PROVE that a
concept will work, you can at least turn a wild guess into an educated
one, and give your collaborators enough confidence to proceed. The
direction of business is forward. Good research is the least amount of
information that gets you out of first gear and onto the highway.
An Aversion To Audience Research Paved The Way For The MoneyLosing Edsel.

The Myth of Focus Groups

Whenever you mention audience research, people immediately think
“focus group.” Yet focus groups rarely deliver any of the consensusbuilding clarity needed to innovate. They were originally invented to

FOCUS the research, not to BE the research. When used as a decision-

making tool, they cast ordinary people in the role of professionals, and
tend to elicit the received wisdom of a handful of alpha-consumers who
see themselves as critics—and who would probably behave differently in
a real buying situation. Focus groups are particularly susceptible to
something called the Hawthorne effect—the tendency for people to act
differently when they know they know someone’s watching. In groups, it
seems, some people just have to show off.
Focus groups are good as a starting point for quantitative research. Just
don’t use them to gauge sales, determine pricing, or analyze things like
product design, package design, or messaging elements. What should
you use instead? That depends on what you want to find out.
If you need to choose among prototypes, one-on-one interviews can give
you enough insight to choose with confidence. If you’re looking for an
understanding of audience behavior, ethnographic observation can turn
up some suggestive insights. A benefit of ethnography is that it tends to
circumvent the Hawthorne effect by viewing human nature unobtrusively
from the sidelines. As Yogi Berra said, “You’d be surprised by how
much you can observe by watching.”

How to Avoid Getting Skewed

Often the first thing companies do when faced with a big decision is to
order up a massive study. The bigger the better, because a large sample
will minimize the “skew,” or the degree of unreliability inherent in the
study. What gets skewed instead is the thinking of the marketing team,
because while quantitative research is long on numbers, it’s short on
insights, the little epiphanies that lead to breakthroughs. Of course, if you
just want to cover your butt, go for a big stack of quantitative data.

With Research, More Is Often Less.
Quantitative studies, while impressive, can lead to analysis paralysis
when companies try to turn them into meaningful initiatives. Somehow
all those numbers cause people to focus on small, measurable
improvements that don’t require any real courage, and in the end don’t
make much difference. Afterwards they provide a built-in excuse: “We
tried that. It didn’t work.” It didn’t work because it wasn’t powered by
heart-pounding insights. It went after small problems instead of hunting
big game.

It’s usually better to get a rough answer to the right question than a
detailed answer to the wrong question. The truth is, most large studies
could be cashed in for a series of smaller, more effective ones, and still
have change left over. The best studies are quick and dirty—best not
only because they save time and money, but because they’re more likely
to focus on one problem at a time. Why boil the ocean to make a cup of
tea?

The Swap Test

Wanna check out the effectiveness of your brand icon? Here’s a simple
test you can perform without leaving your office. Swap part of your icon
—the name or the visual element—with that of a competing brand, or
even a brand from another category. If the resulting icon is better, or no
worse than it was, your existing icon has room for improvement. By the
same token, no other company should be able to improve its icon by
using part of yours. A good brand icon is like a tailored suit—it should
only look good on you.

Do The Trademarks for Polaroid And Nationwide Financial Pass The
Swap Test?
A variation on the swap test is the hand test. This quick-and-dirty proof
lets you check the effectiveness of ads, brochures, web pages, and other
brand communications. Take any piece of visual communication and
cover up your trademark with your hand. Can you tell whose piece it is?
If the communication in question looks as if it could have come from any
other company or brand, then it’s less than it could be. Because even

without a trademark, those familiar with your brand should be able to tell
who’s talking just by its “voice,” or the look and feel of the materials.

The Concept Test

Copywriter Steve Bautista wrote: “When people talk to themselves, it’s
called insanity. When companies talk to themselves, it’s called
marketing.” How can you make sure your company isn’t talking to
itself? By closing the feedback loop—preferably BEFORE you take your
concept to market. A simple concept test can help you develop names,
symbols, icons, taglines, and brand promises by addressing two issues:
1) getting the right idea, and 2) getting the idea right. In other words, it
not only helps you sort through a range of alternate approaches, it helps
you polish the one you pick.
To test a concept, create a range of prototypes of the brand element in
question. You can start with as many as seven concepts, but the most

thoughtful responses will come when you get it down to two or three.
(Like with a presidential election, people are most comfortable choosing
between two candidates, and if necessary they can handle a third.) Next,
present the prototypes to at least 10 members of the real audience (not
company insiders), one person at a time (not as a group). Then ask a
series of questions like the ones below. Notice that nowhere in the
questions will you find “Which one do you like?” It’s not about liking.
It’s about understanding.
A brand promise, for example, might be illuminated by questions like
these: Which of these promises is most valuable to you? Which company
would you expect to make a promise like this? If company X made this
promise, would that make sense? What other type of promise would you
expect from company X? Always follow up with “Why?” because the
answer to “why” will contain the seed of the next question.
You might test a brand icon with a slightly different set of questions:
Which of these icons catches your eye first? What made you notice it?
Does it remind you of any other icons you’ve seen? What do you think
this particular icon means? If it’s really supposed to mean X, do you
think one of these other choices expresses it better? And so on.
1) Getting the Right Idea

A significant advantage of a concept test is that it costs very little and
yields results in a matter of hours or days, not weeks. Often, a concept
test can be conducted online, using PDFs to present the images and a
telephone call to conduct the interview. This “instant” feedback lets you
conduct anywhere from one to three rounds—design plus testing—in
less time than it would take to conduct one large study. Are concept tests
conclusive? No, because they’re not meant to be conclusive. They’re
meant to be lightning rods for insight. But if you want a larger sample,
you can easily expand a concept test into full-scale quantitative study,
which will then have the advantage of being focused on the real issues.
2) Getting the Idea Right

True story: I once commissioned a worldwide brand study on behalf of
Apple Computer. After spending a quarter-million dollars on a 10-city
worldwide quantitative study, we ended up with virtually the same
results as we got from our initial one-day test. Lesson: If you can live
with a little uncertainty, an inexpensive concept test will often give you
ample information to turn logic into magic.

The Field Test

Prototypes that can be tested in a realistic situation offer the best
feedback, because the mental leap from concept to reality is easier. For
example, if you can test a packaging prototype on the shelf, next to the
competition, using real shoppers who happen to be shopping your
category, your results will be more accurate than if you conduct the test
in a facility, using “incentivized” subjects who will naturally begin to
think more about testing than shopping. In other words, you’ll avoid
getting skewed. The field test minimizes the Hawthorne effect by
adhering more closely to normal shopping patterns.
Field tests can also be used to preview the success or failure of a new
product. If the first point of contact between customer and product will
be the store, then the store is where the product must first succeed. If the
product comes in a package, then the package is where the product must
succeed. Some of the most promising ideas have died quick and painful
deaths, not because people didn’t WANT them, but because the products
didn’t make sense at the point of contact. Happily, a field test can reveal
fatal flaws BEFORE the product is launched, giving the team a chance to
build a different package—or a different product.
Now it gets more interesting. What if a new product idea could be
CONCEIVED at the packaging level? Instead of beginning in R&D, a
product could begin with branding, first by building a set of prototypes
for an imaginary product or package, and then by conducting an
“opportunity test” at the point of contact. If the product looks like a
winner where it counts most, in the customer’s gut, then it can go to
R&D for development. Remember, a brand is what THEY say it is, not
what YOU say it is. Sometimes it makes sense to find out first, before you
spend your whole development budget.

What are We Looking For?

Testing, or validation, is the process of measuring brands against
meaningful criteria. All brand expressions, from icons to actual products,
need to score high in five areas of communication: distinctiveness,
relevance, memorability, extendibility, and depth.

DISTINCTIVENESS is the quality that causes a brand expression to stand out

from competing messages. If it doesn’t stand out, the game is over.
Distinctiveness often requires boldness, innovation, surprise, and clarity,
not to mention courage on the part of the company. Is it clear enough and
unique enough to pass the swap test?
RELEVANCE asks whether a brand expression is appropriate for its goals.

Does it pass the hand test? Does it grow naturally from the DNA of the
brand? These are good questions, because it’s possible to be attentiongetting without being relevant, like a girly calendar issued by an auto
parts company.
MEMORABILITY is the quality that allows people to recall the brand or

brand expression when they need to. Testing for memorability is
difficult, because memory proves itself over time. But testing can often
reveal the presence of its drivers, such as emotion, surprise,
distinctiveness, and relevance.
EXTENDIBILITY measures how well a given brand expression will work

across media, across cultural boundaries, and across message types. In
other words, does it have legs? Can it be extended into a series if
necessary? It’s surprisingly easy to create a one-off, single-use piece of
communication that paints you into a corner.
DEPTH is the ability to communicate with audiences on a number of

levels. People, even those in the same brand tribe, connect to ideas in
different ways. Some are drawn to information, others to style, and still
others to emotion. There are many levels of depth, and skilled
communicators are able to create connections at most of them.
These are the criteria that validate brand design—they provide a reality
check for break-throughs. They not only separate true innovation from
mere trendiness, they dispel the doubts that can freeze companies into
inaction. When managers embrace the twin disciplines of innovation and
validation, the marketing department is no longer the place where
breakthrough ideas go to die. It’s where they prosper and grow and
multiply like magic.

Testing Might Have Saved Some Of These Companies From The 1999
Swoosh Epidemic.

Has The Globe Become The New Swoosh?

Discipline 5. Cultivate

The Living Brand

Business is a process, not an entity. Successful businesses are those that
continually adapt to changes in the marketplace, the industry, the
economy, and the culture. They behave more like organisms than
organizations, shifting and growing and dividing and combining as
needed. Unlike the old corporate identity paradigm that prized
uniformity and consistency, the new brand paradigm sacrifices those
qualities in favor of being alive and dynamic.
Perfection? It never existed. Control? Fuhget-aboudit. As entrepreneurial
consultant Guy Kawasaki advises his clients: “Don’t worry, be crappy.”
Let the brand live, breathe, make mistakes, be human. Instead of trying
to present a Teflon-smooth surface, project a three-dimensional
personality, inconsistencies and all. Brands can afford to be inconsistent
—as long as they don’t abandon their defining attributes. They’re like
people. For example, in the morning you can wear a T-shirt, and in the
evening a dress shirt. One moment you can be serious, and the next
laugh out loud. Despite these apparent inconsistencies in your dress and
demeanor, your friends and colleagues will still recognize you. What
makes you “you” is deeper than appearances and moods. I’ll venture one

step further, and say that brands that don’t project depth and humanity
tend to create suspicion among customers.

If People Can Change Their Clothes To Suit The Occasion, Why Can’t
Brands?
The old paradigm in which identity systems try to control the “look” of
an organization only result in cardboard characters, not threedimensional protagonists. The new paradigm calls for heroes with flaws
—living brands.

Every Day You Write the Book

A living brand is a collaborative performance, and every person in the
company is an actor. When a rep lands a customer, when an admin takes
a phone call, when a CFO issues a profit warning, when a product
manager gives a demo, when an accountant pays an invoice—each of
these events adds depth and detail to the script, just as surely as a new ad
campaign or website does. People “read” the script in their experiences
with the company and its communications, then retell their version of it
to others. When people’s experiences match their expectations, their
loyalty increases.
Drama coach Stella Adler often told her students, “Don’t act. Behave.”
Living brands are not a stylistic veneer but a pattern of behavior that
grows out of character. When the external actions of a company align
with its internal culture, the brand resonates with authenticity. If a brand
looks like a duck, quacks like a duck, walks like a duck, and swims like a
duck, then it must be a duck. If it swims like a dog, however, people start
to wonder.

Does The Company’s Behavior Match The Company’s Image?

The Brand as a Compass

Let’s say you’ve differentiated, collaborated, innovated, and validated.
You’ve decided who you are, what you do, and why it matters. You’ve
added the left brain to the right brain, and one plus one now equals
eleven. You’ve zigged when the competition zagged, and you’ve ditched
your outmoded logo for an distinctive brand icon. Finally, you’ve used
audience feedback to banish the “fear of stupid” from your corporate
culture. Your brand is heading up the charts with a loyal tribe of
customers and collaborators, and your margins are higher than ever.
What’s your next move?

Pass out the compasses. Every person in the company should be issued a
personal shockproof brandometer—a durable set of ideas about what the
brand is and what makes it tick. Because no decision, big or small,
should be made without asking the million-dollar question: “Will it help
or hurt the brand?”
The secret of a living brand is that it lives throughout the company, not
just in the marketing department. Since branding is a process, not an
entity, it can be learned, taught, replicated, and cultivated. Continuing
education programs can get everyone in the company onto the same
page, while seminars, workshops, and critiques can keep outside
collaborators singing in tune.

Protecting the Brand

The growing importance of the brand has a flip side: its growing
vulnerability. A failed launch, a wandering brand focus, or a whiff of
scandal can damage credibility and decrease brand value. And now,
thanks to globalization, bad news not only travels fast, it travels far. The
Firestone tire fiasco quickly deflated the value of the Ford brand by 17%,
from $36 billion down to $30 billion. And in one year alone Amazon lost
31% of its brand value in trying to extend its online book niche into an
online bookmusiccameracomputerappliancebabyfurnituretoy niche—
with predictable non-success. During the same period, the value of the
Starbucks brand grew 32%. Why? Starbucks protected its brand as it
reached its aromatic fingers further into middle-America, spreading the
experience but keeping the focus tight.
For brand knowledge to become imbedded throughout the organization,
it has to be protected against “evaporation,” the tendency for decisional
wisdom to disappear as experienced people leave the company. The
long-term success of any brand depends on the constant regeneration of
corporate memory. Since key people tend to stay in their positions only

two to five years, the challenge is to capture brand knowledge and pass it
to the next generation intact. How? With a brand education program
that’s distributed throughout the company and its creative network,
guaranteeing the survival of the brand, while keeping it open to feedback
from the brand community.

Where Are All the CBOs?

As I said earlier, three basic models have evolved for managing largescale creative collaboration. The first two are the paths of least
resistance: outsourcing stewardship of the brand to a one-stop shop or a
brand agency. The preference among advanced branders, however, is the
third: internal stewardship of the brand with the help of an integrated
marketing team. Intel’s worldwide creative director, Susan Rockrise,
calls this a “virtual agency,” a concept she has pioneered for the better
part of a decade. Intel, and other companies who favor the integrated
marketing model, have learned how to recruit best-of-breed creative

firms from around the world and get them to play together on an all-star
team.
The more a brand becomes distributed, the more it requires strong,
centralized management.
Creativity can quickly turn to chaos in the absence of adult supervision
(as any parent knows). And while controlled chaos is necessary for
innovation and change, uncontrolled chaos can make a brand
schizophrenic and confused.
The growing need for internal stewardship has given rise to the
appointment of what we might call chief brand officers, or CBOs—
highly experienced professionals who manage brand collaboration at the
highest corporate level. CBOs are rare birds, because they need the
ability to strategize with the chief, and also inspire creativity among the
troops. In effect they must form a human bridge across the brand gap,
connecting the company’s left brain with its right brain, bringing
business strategy in line with customer experience. A CBO is the
executive who lies awake at night thinking, “How can we build the
brand?”
The main reason CBOs are rare is that few formal programs have been
established to train them. Unlike CEOs, who can begin their careers with
a degree in business administration, CBOs have to pick up their skills on
the fly, working their knowledge back and forth in various positions at
advertising agencies, corporate marketing departments, design firms, and
other creative and consulting businesses until they reach a level of
mastery. While they may start their careers with a degree in marketing or
design, neither program by itself can teach how to combine logic and
magic in the necessary proportions. Those who do master this alchemy
tend to command middle-six-figure salaries in companies. Fortunately,
this has not gone unnoticed by progressive business colleges and design
schools, who are now scrambling to catch up.

The CBO Forms A Bridge Between Brand Logic And Brand Magic.

The Virtuous Circle

In the last century, many companies found themselves trapped in a
vicious circle of R&D investment, initial market success, competitive
pressure, and pricecutting, until commoditization eventually forced them
out of the market.
Branding creates the opposite effect—a virtuous circle. By combining
logic and magic, a company can ignite a chain reaction that leads from
differentiation to collaboration to innovation to validation and finally to
cultivation. Built into cultivation is the mandate to question all
assumptions, leapfrog the status quo, and begin the cycle again. With
each turn, the company and its brand spiral higher, taking it further from
commoditization and closer to the Holy Grail of marketing: a sustainable
competitive advantage.
A brand is not a logo. A brand is not a corporate identity system. It’s a
person’s gut feeling about a product, service, or company. Because it
depends on others for its existence, it must become a guarantee of
trustworthy behavior. Good branding makes business integral to society
and creates opportunity for everyone, from the chief executive to the
most distant customer.

Take-Home Lessons

Here’s a quick summary of the ideas covered in THE BRAND GAP. Sprinkle
liberally throughout your brand presentations, or try adding a different
one to the bottom of each business e-mail you send—you may be
surprised at the conversations you’ll start.

On Branding

A brand is a person’s gut feeling about a product, service, or
company. It’s not what YOU say it is. It’s what THEY say it is.
Branding is the process of connecting good strategy with good
creativity. It’s not the process of connecting good strategy with
poor creativity, poor strategy with good creativity, or poor
strategy with poor creativity.
The foundation of brand is trust. Customers trust your brand when
their experiences consistently meet or beat their expectations.
Modern society is information-rich and time-poor. The value of
your brand grows in direct proportion to how quickly and
easily customers can say yes to your offering.
People base their buying decisions more on symbolic cues than
features, benefits, and price. Make sure your symbols are
compelling.
Only one competitor can be the cheapest—the others have to use
branding. The stronger the brand, the greater the profit margin.
A charismatic brand is any product, service, or company for
which people believe there’s no substitute. Any brand can be
charismatic, even yours.

Differentiate

To begin building your brand, ask yourself three questions: 1)
Who are you? 2) What do you do? 3) Why does it matter?
Our brains filter out irrelevant information, letting in only what’s
different and useful. Tell me again, why does your product
matter?
Differentiation has evolved from a focus on “what it is,” to “what
it does,” to “how you’ll feel,” to “who you are.” While
features, benefits, and price are still important to people,
experiences and personal identity are even more important.
As globalism removes barriers, people erect new ones. They
create tribes—intimate worlds they can understand and
participate in. Brand names are tribal gods, each ruling a
different space within the tribe.
Become the number one or number two in your space. Can’t be
number one or number two? Redefine your space or move to a
different tribe.

Collaborate

Over time, specialists beat generalists. The winner is the brand
that best fits a given space. The law of the jungle? Survival of
the FITTINGEST.
How a brand should fit its space is determined by the brand
community. It takes a village to build a brand.
By asking left-brainers and right-brainers to work as a team, you
bridge the gap between logic and magic. With collaboration,
one plus one equals eleven.

For successful precedents to creative collaboration, look to
Hollywood, Silicon Valley, and the cathedral builders of the
Renaissance.
As creative firms become more collaborative, they’re also
becoming more specialized. The next economy will see a rise
in branding networks—groups of “unbundled” companies
cooperating across the value chain.
Three basic models have emerged for managing brand
collaboration: 1) the one-stop shop, 2) the brand agency, and 3)
the integrated marketing team. Choose any one or create a
combination.
Speak in prototypes. Prototypes cut through marketing red tape
and let gut feeling talk to gut feeling.

Innovate

It’s design, not strategy, that ignites passion in people. And the
magic behind better design and better business is innovation.
Radical innovation has the power to render competition obsolete.
The innovator’s mantra: When everyone zigs, zag.
How do you know when an idea is innovative? When it scares the
hell out of you.
Expect innovation from people outside the company, or from
people inside the company who THINK outside.
Make sure the name of your brand is distinctive, brief,
appropriate, easy to spell, easy to pronounce, likable,
extendible, and protectable.
Logos are dead. Long live icons and avatars.
Packaging is the last and best chance to influence a prospect this
side of the checkout counter. Arrange all your packaging

messages in a “natural reading sequence.”
Avoid the three most common barriers to web innovation:
technophobia, turfismo, and featuritis.
Bottom line: If it’s not innovative, it’s not magic.

Validate

The standard communication model is an antique. Transform your
brand communication from a monologue to a dialogue by
getting feedback.
Feedback, i.e. audience research, can inspire and validate
innovation.
Research has gotten an unfair rap from the creative community.
Though bad research can be like looking at the road in a
rearview mirror, good research can get brands out of reverse
and onto the Autobahn.
Use focus groups to FOCUS the research, not BE the research. Focus
groups are particularly susceptible to the Hawthorne effect,
which happens when people know they’re being tested.
Quantitative research is antithetical to inspiration. For epiphanies
that lead to breakthroughs, use qualitative research.
Measure your company’s brand expressions for distinctiveness,
relevance, memorability, extendibility, and depth.

Cultivate

Your business is not an entity but a living organism. Ditto your
brand. Alignment, not consistency, is the basis of a living
brand.

A living brand is a never-ending play, and every person in the
company is an actor. People see the play whenever they
experience the brand, and then they tell others.
Every brand contributor should develop a personal shockproof
brandometer. No decision should be made without asking,
“Will it help or hurt the brand?”
The growing importance of the brand has a flip side: its growing
vulnerability. A failed launch, a drop in quality, or a whiff of
scandal can damage credibility.
The more collaborative a brand becomes, the more centralized its
management needs to be. The future of branding will require
strong CBOs—chief brand officers who can steward the brand
from inside the company.
Branding is a process that can be studied, analyzed, learned,
taught, replicated, and managed. It’s the CBO’s job to
document and disseminate brand knowledge, and to transfer it
whole to each new manager and collaborator.
Each lap around the branding circle, from differentiation to
cultivation, takes the brand further from commoditization and
closer to a sustainable competitive advantage.
Become a BRAND GAP GURU in your company. Visit www.newriders.com
and download a free Adobe PDF presentation of the ideas in THE BRAND
GAP. You can also buy discounted copies of THE BRAND GAP—an easy
way to keep every member of your team focused on the company’s
brand.

Brand Glossary

Included in this revised edition is the complete list of definitions from
THE DICTIONARY OF BRAND, a book I edited with the support of an all-star
advisory council. The challenge was to create a “linguistic foundation”—
a set of terms that allows specialists from different disciplines to work
together in a larger community of practice. Neither the terms nor their
definitions are carved in stone; we’ll most certainly find that many are
malleable, some are fluid, and a few are provisionary as we co-develop
the practice of brand building.
artifact
A visible representation of an idea; a product or by-product of
designing | see Designing
atmospherics
The identity of a brand environment, represented by its architecture,
signage, textures, scents, sounds, colors, and employee behavior |
see Experience Design
attitude study
A survey of opinions about a brand, often used as a benchmark
before and after making changes to it
audience
The group to which a product, service, or message is aimed; also
called the target audience
audio branding
The process of building a brand with auditory associations, such as
Hewlett-Packard’s use of the song “Pictures of You” in their
Photosmart advertising | see Earcon
authenticity
The quality of being genuine, often considered a powerful brand
attribute

avatar
A brand icon designed to move, morph, or otherwise operate freely
across various media | see Icon
awareness study
A survey that measures an audience’s familiarity with a brand, often
divided into “prompted” and “spontaneous” awareness | see
Audience
backstory
The story behind a brand, such as its origin, the meaning of its
name, or the underpinnings of its authenticity or charisma | see
Authenticity, Provenance
benefit
A perceived advantage derived from a product, service, feature, or
attribute
bhag
A“ Big, Hairy, Audacious Goal” designed to focus an organization |
read Built to Last, Jim Collins and Jerry Porras
bottom-up marketing
Customer-driven marketing, as opposed to top-down or
management-driven marketing | read Bottom-Up Marketing, Al
Ries and Jack Trout
brand
A person’s perception of a product, service, experience, or
organization; the art and science of brand building
brand agency
A strategic firm that provides or manages a variety of brandbuilding services across a range of media
brand alignment
The practice of linking brand strategy to customer touchpoints | see
Brand Strategy, Touchpoint
brand ambassador
Anyone who promotes the brand through interactions with

customers, prospects, partners, or the media; ideally, every company
employee
brand architecture
A hierarchy of related brands, often beginning with a master brand,
describing its relationship to subbrands and co-brands; a brand
family tree | see Co-Branding, Master Brand, Subbrand
brand articulation
A concise description of a brand that enables members of the brand
community to collaborate; the brand story | see Brand Community,
Brand Story
brand asset
Any aspect of a brand that has strategic value, which may include
brand associations, brand attributes, brand awareness, or brand
loyalty | see Brand Attribute, Brand Loyalty
brand attribute
A distinctive feature of a product, service, company, or brand
brand audit
A formal assessment of a brand’s strengths and weaknesses across
all of its touchpoints | see Touchpoint
brand champion
Anyone who evangelizes or protects a brand; a brand steward | see
Brand Steward
brand community
The network of people who contribute to building a brand,
including internal departments, external firms, industry partners,
customers, users, and the media
brand consultant
An external adviser who contributes to the brand-building process,
often in a strategic or advisory role
brand council
A committee formed to assess and guide a company’s brandbuilding process; sometimes called a creative council

brand designer
Any person who helps shape a brand, including graphic designers,
strategists, marketing directors, researchers, advertising planners,
web developers, public relations specialists, copywriters, and others
brand earnings
The share of a business’s cash flow that can be attributed to the
brand alone
branded house
A company in which the dominant brand name is the company
name, such as Mercedes-Benz; also called a homogeneous brand or
a monolithic brand; the opposite of a house of brands
brand equity
The accumulated value of a company’s brand assets, both
financially and strategically; the overall market strength of a brand |
read Managing Brand Equity, David A. Aaker
brand essence
The distillation of a brand’s promise into the simplest possible
terms
brand experience
All the interactions people have with a product, service, or
organization; the raw material of a brand | see Brand Story
brand gap
The gulf between business strategy and customer experience
brand identity
The outward expression of a brand, including its name, trademark,
communications, and visual appearance | read Designing Brand
Identity, Alina Wheeler
brand image
A customer’s mental picture of a product, service, or organization
branding
Any effort or program to build a brand; the process of brandbuilding

brand loyalty
The strength of preference for a brand compared to competing
brands, sometimes measured in repeat purchases
brand manager
An obsolescent term for a person responsible for tactical issues
facing a brand or brand family, such as pricing, promotion,
distribution, and advertising; a product manager
brand manual
A document that articulates the parameters of the brand for
members of the brand community; a standardized set of brandbuilding tools | see Brand Community
brandmark
An icon, avatar, wordmark, or other symbol for a brand; a
trademark | see Avatar, icon, Symbol, Trademark
brand metrics
Measurements for monitoring changes in brand equity | see Brand
Valuation
brand name
The verbal or written component of a brand icon; the name of a
product, service, experience, or organization | see Icon
brand personality
The character of a brand defined in human terms, such as Virgin =
irreverent, or Chanel = refined
brand police
Manager or team responsible for strict compliance with the
guidelines in the brand manual | see Brand Manual
brand portfolio
A suite of related brands; a collection of brands owned by one
company | read Brand Portfolio Strategy, David A. Aaker
brand pushback
Marketplace resistance to brand messages or brand extensions,

often leading to changes in brand strategy | see Brand Strategy,
Extension
brand steward
The person responsible for developing and protecting a brand
brand story
The articulation of a brand as a narrative; a coherent set of messages
that articulate the meaning of a brand | see Backstory
brand strategy
A plan for the systematic development of a brand in order to meet
business objectives
brand valuation
The process of measuring the monetary equity of a brand | see
Brand Metrics
buzz
The current public opinion about a product, service, experience, or
organization | read The Anatomy of Buzz, Emanuel Rosen
category
The arena in which a brand competes; a consideration set | see
Consideration Set
CBO
A company’s Chief Brand Officer, responsible for integrating the
work of the brand community | see Brand Community
challenger brand
A new or rising brand that is viable in spite of competition from the
dominant brand in its category | read Eating the Big Fish, Adam
Morgan
charismatic brand
A brand that inspires a high degree of loyalty; also known as a
lifestyle brand or passion brand | see Tribal Brand
clutter
The conceptual noise of the marketplace; a disorderly array of

messages or elements that impedes understanding
co-branding
The purposeful linking of two or more brands for mutual benefit
co-creation
The collaborative development of a product, service, brand, or
message
collaboration
The process by which people of different disciplines work in
concert to build a brand; the practice of co-creation | read Serious
Play and No More Teams!, Michael Schrage
command and control
A management style relying on clearly defined goals, processes,
and measurements; top-down rather than bottom-up or distributed
management
commoditization
The process by which customers come to see products, services, or
companies as interchangeable, resulting in the erosion of profit
margins; the opposite of brand-building | see Vicious Circle
concept map
A diagram showing the connections among a set of concepts
conceptual noise
Cognitive clutter arising from too many messages or meanings; any
competing ideas that undermine clarity | see Clutter
consideration set
The range of brands that a customer considers when making a
purchase decision; a category | see Category
coopetition
The cooperation of two competitors so that both can win | read
Coopetition, Adam M. Brandenburger and Barry J. Nalebuff
core competencies
A set of capabilities (typically two or three) that gives a company a

strategic advantage
core identity
The central, sustainable elements of a brand identity, usually the
name and trademark | see Brand Identity, Trademark
core ideology
A combination of core values and core purpose | see Core Purpose,
Core Values
core purpose
The reason a company exists beyond making a profit; part of a core
ideology | see Core Ideology
core values
An enduring set of principles that defines the ethics of a company;
part of a core ideology | see Core Ideology
corporate identity
The brand identity of a company, consisting of its visual identifiers
such as the name, trademark, typography, and colors; a company’s
trade dress | see brand identity, Trade Dress
creative brief
A document that sets parameters for a brand-building project,
including context, goals, processes, and budgetary constraints
cultivation
The process of imbedding brand values throughout the organization;
internal branding | read Building the Brand-Driven Business,
Aaker, Davis and Dunn
cultural lock-in
The inability of an organization to change its mental models in the
face of clear market threats | read Creative Destruction, Richard N.
Foster and Sarah Kaplan
culture jamming
The act of modifying advertisements or brand messages to subvert
their original intent; also known as subvertising | read Adbusters
magazine

customer expectations
The anticipated benefits of a brand, whether explicit or implicit
customer goals
The “jobs” that customers “hire” a product, service, experience, or
organization to do for them | read The Innovator’s Solution,
Christensen and Raynor
descriptor
A term used with a brand name to describe the category in which
the brand competes, such as “fluoride toothpaste” or “online bank” |
see Category
design
In brand-building, the planning or shaping of products, services,
environments, systems, communications, or other artifacts to create
a positive brand experience | see Artifact
designing
The process of design; bringing together strategic and creative
processes to achieve a shared goal | read Why Design?, published
by AIGA
design management
The practice of integrating the work of internal and external design
teams to align brand expressions with strategic goals
design research
Customer research on the experience and design of products or
communication elements, using qualitative, quantitative, or
ethnographic techniques | see Ethnography, Field test, one-on-one
interview
differentiation
The process of establishing a unique market position to increase
profit margins and avoid commoditization; the result of positioning |
see Positioning | read Differentiate or Die, Jack Trout
disruptive innovation
A new product, service, or business that redefines the market; also

called discontinuous innovation | see First Mover | read The
Innovator’s Dilemma, Clayton Christensen
drive features
Brand attributes that are both important to customers and highly
differentiated from those of competitors | see Brand Attribute |
read The McKinsey Quarterly, May 2004
driver brand
In a brand portfolio, the brand that drives a purchase decision,
whether master brand, subbrand, or endorser brand | see Brand
Portfolio, Endorser Brand, Master Brand, Subbrand
earcon
An auditory brand symbol, such as United Airlines’ use of
“Rhapsody in Blue” as a brand expression; an aural icon | see Icon
elevator pitch
A one-sentence version of a brand’s purpose or market position,
short enough to convey during a brief elevator ride | see Market
Position
emergent attribute
A feature, benefit, quality, or experience that arises from the brand,
as opposed to the core product or service; an example is the
friendliness of Google
emotional branding
Brand-building efforts that aim at customers’ feelings through
sensory experiences | read Emotional Branding, Marc Gobé and
Sergio Zyman
endorser brand
A brand that promises satisfaction on behalf of a subbrand or cobrand, usually in a secondary position to the brand being endorsed |
see Co-Branding, Subbrand
envisioned future
A 10 to 30-year BHAG with vivid descriptions of what it will be
like to reach the goal | see BHAG | read Built to Last, Jim Collins
and Jerry Porras

Ethnography
The study of people in their natural settings; research to discover
needs and desires that can be met with brand innovations
experience design
A focus on shaping the experience of a customer or user, rather than
on the artifacts themselves; the design of interactive media | see
Artifact, Information Architect
extended identity
The elements that extend the core identity of a company or brand,
organized into groupings such as brand personality, symbols, and
positioning | see Brand Personality, Core Identity, Positioning,
Symbol
extension
A new product or service that leverages the brand equity of a related
product or service
evangelist
A brand advocate, whether paid or unpaid
feature
Any element of a product, service, or experience designed to deliver
a benefit
feature creep
The addition of unnecessary elements to a product, service, or
experience; sometimes called featuritis
field test
A type of qualitative research in which prototypes of products,
packages, or messages are tested in real environments instead of
laboratories | see Qualitative Research
fifth discipline
The organizational discipline of systems thinking, used to integrate
four other disciplines: personal mastery, mental models, shared
vision, and team learning | read The Fifth Discipline, Peter Senge

first mover
A company or brand that starts a new category | see Disruptive
Innovation
focus group
A qualitative research technique in which several people are invited
to a research facility to discuss a given subject; a type of research
designed to focus later research | see Qualitative Research
frankenbrand
A poorly aligned brand, often resulting from a merger or
acquisition; a dysfunctional brand | see Brand Alignment
futurecasting
A technique used to envision future products, industries,
competitors, challenges, or opportunities; a combination of
forecasting and imagination | read Unstuck, Keith Yamashita and
Sandra Spataro, Ph.D.
generic
An unbranded product, service, or experience; a commodity | see
Commoditization
generic brand
A misnomer often applied to a commodity product or store brand
(since the terms generic and brand are mutually exclusive) | see
Store Brand
global brand
A product, service, or company that competes globally (often a
misnomer, since most brands, by definition, vary from culture to
culture)
guerilla marketing
A marketing program that uses non-traditional channels to sell or
advertise products or services | read Guerrilla Marketing, Jay
Conrad Levinson
halo brand
A brand that lends value to another brand by association, such as a
well known master brand and lesser known subbrand

harmonization
The alignment of the elements of a brand across product lines or
geographic regions
hawthorne effect
The tendency for research subjects to behave uncharacteristically |
see Observer Effect
hollywood model
A system of creative collaboration in which specialists work as a
team for the duration of a project | see IMT, Metateam, Virtual
Agency
house of brands
A company in which the dominant brand names are those of the
products and services the company sells, also called a
heterogeneous brand or pluralistic brand; the opposite of branded
house
icon
The visual symbol of a brand, usually based on a differentiated
market position; a trademark | see Trademark
IMT
An Integrated Marketing Team, comprised of various specialist
firms collaborating to build a brand; a metateam or virtual agency |
see Hollywood Model, Metateam, Virtual Agency
information architect
A person who designs complex information systems to make them
more navigable | read Information Architects, edited by Richard
Saul Wurman
information hierarchy
The order of importance of the elements in a brand message
ingredient brand
A brand used as a selling feature in another brand
innovation
A market-changing product, service, experience, or concept; the

formal practice of innovation | read The Art of Innovation, Tom
Kelley et al.
integrated marketing
A collaborative method for developing consistent messaging across
media
intellectual property
Intangible assets protected by patents and copyrights; the legal
discipline that specializes in the protection of brand assets,
including brand names, trademarks, colors, shapes, sounds, and
smells
internal branding
An internal program to spread brand understanding through the use
of standards manuals, orientation sessions, workshops, critiques,
and online training; brand cultivation
jamming
Building a brand or company through improvisational collaboration
| read Jamming, John Kao
junk brand
A brand based on a facade instead of a real value proposition;
sometimes called a Potemkin brand | see Value Proposition
leveraging a brand
Borrowing from the credibility of one brand to launch another
brand, subbrand, or co-brand; a brand extension | see Co-Branding,
Subbrand
line extension
The addition of one or more subbrands to a master brand; the
expansion of a brand family | see Master Brand, Subbrand
living brand
A brand that grows, changes, and sustains itself; a healthy brand
logo
An abbreviation of logotype, now applied broadly (if incorrectly) to
all trademarks | see Logotype, Trademark

logotype
A distinctive typeface or lettering style used to represent a brand
name; a wordmark
look and feel
The sensory experience
communication

of

a

product,

environment,

or

mall intercept
A market research technique in which researchers interview
customers in a store or public location; a one-on-one interview | see
One-On-One Interview
marketing
The process of developing, promoting, selling, and distributing a
product or service | read The 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing,
Al Ries
marketing aesthetics
The principles of perception used to enhance the feelings or
experiences of an audience | read Marketing Aesthetics, Bernd
Schmitt and Alex Simonson
market penetration
The market share of a product, service, or company compared to
others in the category
market position
The ranking of a product, service, or company within a category,
sometimes calculated as market share multiplied by share of mind |
see Positioning
market share
The percentage of total sales in a given category, usually expressed
in the number of units sold or the value of units sold | see Market
Position
master brand
The dominant brand in a line or across a business, such as
Pepperidge Farm or Sony, to which subbrands can be added; a
parent brand | see brand architecture, Parent Brand, Subbrand

media
The channels through which brand messages are delivered, such as
television, printed publications, direct mail, the Internet, and
outdoor posters
media advertising
One-way messages designed to sell, persuade, or create awareness
of a brand through public communication channels
meme
An idea that self-reproduces like a virus; a unit of social currency,
such as “Where’s the beef?” or “Sweet!” | read The Selfish Gene,
Richard Dawkins
mental model
A conceptual image of an experience, environment, process, or
system that provides better understanding or predictive value
message architecture
The formal relationships among brand communications
metateam
A large team made up of smaller specialist teams; an IMT or virtual
agency | see Hollywood Model, IMT, Virtual Agency
mission statement
A concise statement of the purpose or aspirations of an organization
morpheme
The smallest unit of language that has meaning, often used by
naming specialists to assemble coined words, or neologisms | see
Neologism
name brand
A widely recognized product, service, or organization
natural reading sequence
The order in which readers can most easily absorb separate pieces
of information

neologism
A coined word or phrase that can serve as a brand name | see
Morpheme
new luxury
Goods and services that deliver higher quality or superior
performance at a premium price, such as Belvedere Vodka or
Callaway Golf Clubs | read Trading Up, Michael J. Silverstein and
Neil Fiske
nih syndrome
The tendency of a company, department, employee, or consultant to
reject any idea “Not Invented Here”
no-logo movement
A group of activists who see global brands as a form of cultural
imperialism | read No Logo, Naomi Klein
nomenclature system
A formal structure for naming related products, services, features,
or benefits; the naming portion of an organization’s brand
architecture | see Brand Architecture
observer effect
A tendency for the presence of the observer to change what is being
observed | see Hawthorne Effect
one-on-one interview
A market research technique in which subjects are interviewed one
at a time
one-stop shop
A single firm that offers a full range of branding services, as
opposed to an IMT | see IMT
opinion leader
A person whose opinion or personality exerts an influence over
other members of a group; also called an opinion maker
parallel execution
The process by which creative teams work simultaneously rather

than sequentially
parent brand
The main brand in a brand family; a master brand | see Brand
Architecture, Master Brand
perception
An impression received through the senses; a building block of
customer experience | see Marketing Aesthetics
perceptual map
A diagram of customer perceptions showing the relationships
between competing products, service, companies, or brands
permanent media
Environmental brand messages that last for years, such as
architecture or signage
permission marketing
The practice of promoting goods or services with anticipated,
personal, and relevant messages | read Permission Marketing, Seth
Godin
positioning
The process of differentiating a product, service, or company in a
customer’s mind to obtain a strategic competitive advantage; the
first step in building a brand | read Positioning, Al Ries and Jack
Trout
power law
In brand building, the tendency for success to attract more success;
a law that explains why the “rich get richer” | see Virtuous Circle
primacy effect
The observation that first impressions tend to be stronger than later
impressions, except for last impressions | see Recency Effect
private label
A store-owned product that competes, often at a lower price, with
widely distributed products; a store brand as opposed to a name
brand | see Name Brand, Store Brand

product placement
A form of paid advertising in which products and trademarks are
inserted into non-advertising media such as movies, television
programs, music, and public environments
promise
A stated or implied pledge that creates customer expectations and
employee responsibilities, such as FedEx’s on-time guarantee
prosumer
A category of products and services that combines professionallevel features with consumer-level usability and price
prototype
A model, mockup, or plan used to evaluate or develop a new
product, service, environment, communication, or experience
provenance
A historical connection that lends authenticity or credibility to a
brand | see Authenticity
pure play
A company with a single line of business; a highly focused brand
qualia
Subjective experiences that determine how each person perceives a
brand | see Experience Design
qualitative research
Research designed to provide insight, such as one-on-one
interviews and focus groups | see Design Research, Focus Group,
One-On-One Interview
quantitative research
Research designed to provide measurement, such as polling and
large-scale studies | see Design Research
radical differentiation
A bold position that allows a brand to stand out from market clutter;
a zag | see Positioning, Zag

rapid prototyping
A process of producing quick rounds of mockups, models, or
concepts in rapid succession, evaluating and reiterating after each
round to develop more effective products, services, or experiences |
read The Art of Innovation, Tom Kelley et al.
reach
The number of people exposed to an advertising or brand message |
see Market Penetration
recency effect
The observation that last impressions tend to be stronger than earlier
impressions, including first impressions | see Primacy Effect
reputation
The shared opinion of a product, service, or organization among all
the members of its audience | see Audience
sacrifice
The practice of eliminating any product, service, or feature that fails
to strengthen a market position or brand
sales cycle
For buyers, the steps in making a purchase (often defined as
awareness, consideration, decision, and use); for sellers, the steps in
making a sale (often defined as finding and qualifying customers,
defining the products or services, and accepting and acknowledging
the order)
segment
A group of people who are likely to respond to a given marketing
effort in a similar way | see Audience
segmentation
The process of dividing a market into subcategories of people who
share similar values and goals
shelf impact
The ability of a product, package, or brand to stand out on a shelf by
virtue of its design

signature
The defined visual relationship between a logo-type and a symbol |
see Logotype, symbol
silo
A department separated from other departments according to
product, service, function, or market; a disparaging term for a noncollaborative department
slogan
A catchphrase, tagline, or rally cry; from the Gaelic “sluaghghairm,” meaning “war cry”
social network
A network of people that can be leveraged to spread ideas or
messages using viral marketing techniques | see Viral Marketing
sock-puppet marketing
A disparaging term for “fake” brands built on frothy advertising
campaigns, such as those of the dot-com era | read The Fall of
Advertising, Al Ries and Laura Ries
specialization
The strategy of focusing and deepening a business offering to better
compete with larger companies or to better collaborate with other
specialists
speech-stream visibility
The quality of a brand name that allows it to be recognized as a
proper noun (as opposed to a generic word) in conversation, such as
Kodak or Smuckers
stakeholder
Any person or firm with a vested interest in a company or brand,
including shareholders, employees, partners, suppliers, customers,
and community members
store brand
A private-label product that can be sold at lower prices or higher
margins than its widely distributed competitors, sometimes

incorrectly called a generic brand; a private-label brand | see
Generic Brands, Private Label
strategic DNA
A decision-making code derived from the intertwining of business
strategy and brand strategy
strategy
A plan that uses a set of tactics to achieve a business goal, often by
out-maneuvering competitors | see Brand Strategy
subbrand
A secondary brand that builds on the associations of a master brand
| see Master Brand
sustaining innovation
An incremental improvement to an existing product, service, or
business | see Disruptive Innovation
swot
A conceptual tool that
Opportunities, and Threats

analyzes

Strengths,

Weaknesses,

symbol
A sign or trademark designed to represent a brand
tactic
An expedient maneuver used in support of a strategy
tagline
A sentence, phrase, or word used to summarize a market position,
such as Mini’s “Let’s motor” and Taco Bell’s “Think outside the
bun” | see Positioning, Slogan
target market
The group of customers a company has decided to serve | see
Segmentation
team dynamics
The psychological factors that influence collaboration, including

trust, fear, respect, and company politics | read Unstuck, Keith
Yamashita and Sandra Spataro, Ph.D.
thought leader
A brand that leads the market in influential ideas, though not
necessarily in market share, such as Apple Computer
tipping point
A leverage point in the evolution of a market or society where a
small effort can yield a surprisingly large result, not unlike “the
straw that breaks the camel’s back” | read The Tipping Point,
Malcolm Gladwell
touchpoint
Any place where people come in contact with a brand, including
product use, packaging, advertising, editorial, movies, store
environments, company employees, and casual conversation
trade dress
The colors, shapes, typefaces, page treatments, and other visual
properties that create a recognizable “face” for a brand | see Brand
Identity
trademark
A name and/or symbol that indicates a source of goods or services
and prevents confusion in the marketplace; a legally protectable
form of intellectual property | read Designing Brand Identity,
Alina Wheeler
tribal brand
A brand with a cult-like following, such as Harley-Davidson, eBay,
or American Idol
turfismo
The tendency of managers to protect their autonomy at the expense
of collaboration
TV-Industrial Complex
The dominant system for launching and sustaining national brands
during the last half of the 20th century, now weakened by the spread

of new media and tribal brands | see tribal brand | read Purple
Cow, Seth Godin
USP
The Unique Selling Proposition of a product or service, as
championed by advertising executive Rosser Reeves in the 1950s; a
type of differentiation | see Differentiation
validation
Customer approval or feedback for a proposed message, concept, or
prototype | see Prototype
value proposition
A set of benefits, including functional, emotional, and selfexpressive benefits
vicious circle
In brand strategy, a death spiral that leads from a lack of
differentiation to lower prices, to smaller profit margins, to fewer
available resources, to less innovation, to even less differentiation,
and finally to commoditization; the opposite of a virtuous circle
viral marketing
A technique by which social networks are used to spread ideas or
messages, through the use of affiliate programs, co-branding, emails, and link exchanges on-line, or off-line, through use of wordof-mouth advertising and memes | see Meme read Unleashing the
Ideavirus, Seth Godin
virtual agency
A team of specialist firms that work together to build a brand,
coined by Susan Rockrise of Intel; also called an IMT or metateam |
see Hollywood Model, IMT, Metateam
virtuous circle
The opposite of a vicious circle; a growth spiral that leads from
differentiation, to higher prices, to larger profit margins, to more
available resources, to more innovation, to further differentiation,
and then to a sustainable competitive advantage

vision
The story a leader tells about where an organization is going; the
aspirations of a company that drive future growth
zag
A contrarian strategy that yields a competitive advantage; the
differentiating idea that drives a charismatic brand | see
Charismatic Brand

Recommended Reading

The ideas in THE BRAND GAP are like a group of islands whose
foundations extend below the surface of the page: What you see are only
the peaks. Yet I hope I’ve roused your sense of adventure enough so
you’ll dive deeper into brand and its five disciplines. Here are a few titles
I’ve found rewarding and true, together with brief descriptions.

General Branding

BRAND LEADERSHIP, David A. Aaker and Erich Joachimsthaler
(Free Press, 2000). To be successful, say the authors, a brand must
be led from the top. This shift from a tactical approach to a strategic
approach requires an equal shift in organizational structure,
systems, and culture. The authors prove their point with hundreds of
examples from Virgin to Swatch and from Marriot to McDonald’s.
BRAND PORTFOLIO STRATEGY, David A. Aaker (Free Press,
2004). David Aaker has spent more than a decade building a
taxonomy of brand theory, helping to define and categorize all the
dependencies needed for managing brands. Here he turns his
attention from single brands to families of brands, showing how to
stretch a brand without breaking it, and how to grow a business
without unfocusing it.
BRAND WARFARE, David D’Alessandro (McGrawHill Trade,
2001). The author tells how he brought his branding skills to a job
as CEO of John Hancock, transforming the sleepy life insurer into a
leading financial services giant. He explains why the brand must
always take priority over every other business consideration,
becoming a prism through which every decision must be filtered.
EMOTIONAL BRANDING, Marc Gobé (Allworth Press, 2001).
Creating emotion, aesthetics, and experience are the province of

brand practitioners like Gobé, who uses his company’s portfolio to
illustrate and expand upon the work of Aaker and Schmitt, showing
how logic and magic are expressed in the practice of design.
MANAGING BRAND EQUITY, David A. Aaker (Free Press, 1991).
Aaker fired the first salvo in the brand revolution by proving that
names, symbols, and slogans are valuable—and measurable—
strategic assets. He followed this book with another called
BUILDING STRONG BRANDS (Free Press, 1995), which
escalated the conversation by introducing the role of emotion in
creating brand power. Aaker’s books provide the homework that
underpins modern brand thinking.
MARKETING AESTHETICS, Bernd H. Schmitt and Alex Simonson
(Free Press, 1997). Schmitt and Simonson take Aaker’s thesis one
step further by showing that aesthetics is what drives emotion.
Schmitt forged onward with EXPERIENTIAL MARKETING (Free
Press, 1999), in which he focused on the importance of customer
experience in building a brand.
SELLING THE INVISIBLE, Harry Beckwith (Warner Books, 1997).
A veteran of advertising, Beckwith takes on the toughest branding
conundrum, how to market products that people can’t see—
otherwise known as services. His follow-up book, THE INVISIBLE
TOUCH (Warner Books, 2000), lays out the four keys of modern
marketing: price, branding, packaging, and relationships. Those
who sell tangible products would do well to master many of the
same principles: If you can sell the invisible, the visible is a piece of
cake. Both books are delightful and memorable.

Differentiation

BUILT TO LAST, James C. Collins and Jerry I. Porras
(HarperBusiness Essentials, 1994). Brands may not last, but
companies can, say Collins and Porras. The key to longevity is to
preserve the core and stimulate progress. What’s the core of your
business? Your value set? Your promise? This is the place where
true differentiation starts, whether your company is a house of

brands or a branded house. The authors spent six years on research,
which gives the book a certain gravitas.
POSITIONING: THE BATTLE FOR YOUR MIND, Al Ries and
Jack Trout (McGraw-Hill Trade, 2000). POSITIONING started as a
brochure in the early 1970s, then grew into a book, and has been
continuously updated without ever losing its salience. Ries and
Trout pioneered the concept of positioning, the Big Bang of
differentiation which soon they expanded into a dozen or more
books, each viewing the subject from a different angle. If you can
grasp the simple truths in this body of work, you’ll understand 90%
of what marketing people don’t—the customer decides the brand.
PURPLE COW, Seth Godin (Portfolio, 2003). The author likens a
differentiated brand to a purple cow. When driving through the
country-side, the first brown cow gets your attention. After ten or
twelve brown cows, not so much. Godin proves his point with
innumerable examples from today’s brandscape, and shows how
any company can stand out from the herd. He also takes aim at
advertising as usual, proclaiming the death of the TV-industrial
complex. It’s time to mooove on, folks.

Collaboration

NO MORE TEAMS!, Michael Schrage (Currency/Doubleday, 1995).
Teamwork has only been given lip service until now, argues
Schrage, and for teams to be innovative they need “shared spaces”
and collaborative tools. Well written and highly original, NO
MORE TEAMS! will bring you closer to your ultimate goal,
breakthrough concepts that can revolutionize a business or even a
whole industry, and create a sustainable competitive advantage.
ORGANIZING GENIUS, Warren Bennis and Patricia Ward
Biederman (Perseus Publishing, 1998). An expert on leadership
skills, Bennis shows how to unleash the creative potential of
teamwork within the organization. A seminal work on the subject,
and highly inspirational.

SIX THINKING HATS, Edward de Bono (Little, Brown and
Company, 1985). When executives try to brainstorm the future of
their organization, the discussion can quickly turn to disagreement.
Edward de Bono, acknowledged master of thinking skills, shows
how to get the group's best ideas by focusing on one kind of
thinking at a time. By organizing the session into a series of “hats”,
i.e., red for emotions, black for devil’s advocate, green for
creativity, ideas aren’t shot down before they’re proposed. I’ve used
this system with my clients with remarkable results.
UNSTUCK, Keith Yamashita and Sandra Spataro, Ph.D. (Portfolio,
2004). As we move from the century of the individual to the century
of the team, the game of business is shifting to a new level of
complexity. Frustrated team members (feeling alone, overwhelmed,
directionless, battle-torn, worthless, hopeless, exhausted?) can use
the exercises in this book to work free of their stuckness. If you like
the chart-laden design of The Brand Gap, you’ll love the design of
Unstuck.

Innovation

THE ART OF INNOVATION, Tom Kelley et al.
(Currency/Doubleday, 2000). Kelley pulls back the curtain at IDEO
to reveal the inner workings of today’s premier product design firm.
He shows how the firm uses brainstorming and prototyping to
design such innovative products as the Palm V, children’s “fat”
toothbrushes, and wearable electronics. Cool stuff!
DESIGNING BRAND IDENTITY, Alina Wheeler (Wiley, 2003).
This is the new bible for creating the look and feel of a brand. Step
by step, touchpoint by touchpoint, Wheeler shows how to turn
brand strategy into a perfect customer experience.
EATING THE BIG FISH, Adam Morgan (John Wiley & Sons,
1999). Only one brand can be number one, says Morgan, which
means the others have to try harder. He details the traits common to
“challenger” brands, which include the courage to be different and

the smarts to be innovative. Plenty of real-world examples show
that Morgan’s principles are based in practice, not theory.
SERIOUS PLAY, Michael Schrage (Harvard Business School Press,
1999). Schrage isn’t kidding—he seriously wants you to adopt a
collaborative model. He says the secret is building quick-and-dirty
prototypes, which serve as shared spaces for innovation. He brings
the reader into the wild world of the right-brain, where play equals
seriousness, and serious players work on fun-loving teams.
A SMILE IN THE MIND, Beryl McAlhone and David Stuart
(Phaidon, 1996). If you were to buy only one book on graphic
design, this would be it. Designer Stuart and writer McAlhone
prove that wit is the soul of innovation, using clever and often
profound examples from American and European designers, plus a
modest few pieces from Stuart’s own talented firm, The Partners,
based in London.

Validation

BOTTOM-UP MARKETING, Al Ries and Jack Trout (Plume,
1989). The concept of building a brand from the bottom up is
stunning in its simplicity. The authors advise starting at the
customer level to find a tactic that works, then building the tactic
into a strategy—instead of the other way around. Next thing you
know they’ll advocate turning the org chart upside down. Hmmm—
wait a minute…
HITTING THE SWEET SPOT, Lisa Fortini-Campbell (Copy
Workshop, 1992). To hit the sweet spot, you need the right ratio of
brand insight to consumer insight. Combining theory with practical
exercises, the author shows how to take market research from data,
to information, to insight, and finally to inspiration.
STATE OF THE ART MARKETING RESEARCH, George Breen,
Alan Dutka, and A. B. Blankenship (McGraw-Hill, 1998). This is
probably more than you’ll ever want to know about marketing
research—unless you’re a professional researcher—including how
to do mall interviews, focus groups, and mail studies. But if you

need a good reference on the subject (or if you think only on the left
side), this is your book.
TRUTH, LIES and ADVERTISING, Jon Steel (John Wiley & Sons,
1998). Steel was an account planner at Goodby, Silverstein &
Partners, the agency famous for the “Got milk?” campaign and
many others. Part researcher, part account executive, part agency
creative, and part surrogate customer, he shows how to get inside
customers’ minds to discover how they relate to brands, products,
and categories.

Cultivation

THE AGENDA, Michael Hammer (Crown Business, 2001).
Sustained execution is the key to long-term success, says business
guru
Hammer,
author
of
RE-ENGINEERING
THE
CORPORATION. He spells out a nine-point action plan, including
“systematize creativity”, “profit from the power of ambiguity”, and
“collaborate whenever you can”. While focused more on leadership
than on marketing, Hammer’s plan aligns perfectly with the best
practices of brand building.
BUILDING THE BRAND-DRIVEN BUSINESS, Scott M. Davis and
Michael Dunn (Jossey-Bass, 2002). It’s all about controlling the
touchpoints, those places where customers experience the brand.
Davis and Dunn tell how to segment those experiences into prepurchase, during-purchase, and post-purchase, so that everyone in
the organization knows their role in building the brand.
LIVING THE BRAND, Nicholas Ind (Kogan Page, 2001). A
company’s workforce is its most valuable asset, says Ind, who
recommends a participatory approach to branding. He shows how
meaning, purpose, and values can be built into the organization to
turn every employee into a champion for the brand.
WILL AND VISION, Gerard Tellis and Peter Golder (McGraw-Hill
Trade, 2001). To marketers who subscribe to the theory of the firstmover advantage, Tellis and Golder say “Not so fast!” They use an
impressive number of case studies, including Gillette, Microsoft,

and Xerox, to isolate five key principles needed to build enduring
brands: vision of the mass market, managerial persistence, relentless
innovation, financial commitment, and asset leverage.

Acknowledgments

A theme of this book is that brands don’t evolve in isolation—they
require the talents of many people. Books don’t evolve in isolation,
either. THE BRAND GAP is the result of many hours of conversation with
people who are impassioned by design and business. The book took two
years to research, write, and design; I couldn’t have done it in twenty
years without their help.
My litany begins with Michael Nolan of New Riders, who started the
ball rolling by believing I could write a book on brand design. He kept
the notion alive for a year while I finished other projects, and when I
finally got down to work, his support was constant. Thanks also to
publisher David Dwyer and associate publisher Stephanie Wall for
insisting that the book stay true to its original vision.
A warm nod to Nancy Bernard, my trusted associate and former coeditor of CRITIQUE magazine, who helped me hone my thoughts over the
many months they took to formulate. In the end, either of us could have
written the book.
David Stuart was instrumental in opening my eyes to the growing
importance of creative collaboration. His London design firm, The
Partners, has for years practiced what I preach, routinely combining logic
and magic for the benefit of their clients and their clients’ customers.
Greg Galle of the brand firm C2, with characteristic brilliance and rigor,
lent his thoughts to the book, then combed the text for specious
arguments, gratuitous observations, and other nits that annoy the careful
reader.
Thanks to Susan Rockrise, who graciously agreed to become the poster
girl for brand collaboration while giving me the benefit of her experience
as worldwide creative director at Intel. She’s one of the few people who
can manage 50 creative firms as if they were one.

My gratitude and admiration to all those who contributed their talents to
the making of the book, including Heather McDonald for the design of
the interior, Chris Willis for the cover, Chris Chu for his early concepts,
and Jeanne Carley for her excellent photography.
The text was improved enormously by the comments of critics, clients,
and colleagues who took time to review the prototype. Appreciative
bows to David Aaker, Jerry Bertrand, Karen Bollinger, Robin
Brandenburg, Bill Cahan, Kerry Foster, Patrick Fricke, Gary Gleason,
Richard Grefé, Tom Kelley, Clement Mok, Elizabeth Olsen, David
Parks, Jim Peterson, Rob Rodin, Barrie Schwortz, Peter Van Naarden,
and my good friend Gordon Mortensen.
Special thanks to my brand-glossary advisory council: Jeremy Bullmore
of the advertising organization WPP, Hugh Dubberly of the interactive
firm Dubberly Design Office, Tom Kelley of the product design firm
IDEO, Davis Masten of Cheskin Research, marketing author Seth Godin,
positioning author Al Ries, Susan Rockrise of Intel, collaboration author
Michael Schrage, brand-identity author Alina Wheeler, and the “vision
designers” from Stone Yamashita Partners. Outside the council, a
number of colleagues from the AIGA Center for Brand Experience
helped in herding the right words onto the page.
Of the 220 glossary terms, many have been introduced by authors, in
which case I tried to include the titles of their books. You can find some
of them listed in the preceding recommended-reading section.
I’ve been extremely lucky in that most of my projects, including this one,
have been labors of love. Thanks to my mother Lorna, for revealing the
joy in everything and everyone; to my father Gene, for teaching me to
try; to my brother Peter, for his steady counsel; to Francele, Marianne,
Ellyn, and Carla, for being the best sisters anyone could have; to my
daughter Sara, for her generous spirit; and, finally, to Eileen, my
amazing wife of 36 years.

About the Author

About the Author

Marty Neumeier is president of Neutron LLC, a San Francisco-based
firm specializing in brand collaboration—the “glue” that holds integrated
marketing teams together.
Neumeier began his career as a graphic designer and copywriter in
Southern California in the early 1970s, then moved to Northern
California in the early 1980s to focus on brand design for technology
clients. By the middle 1990s, his firm had developed hundreds of brand
icons, retail packages, and other communications for companies such as
Apple Computer, Adobe Systems, Netscape Communications, Eastman
Kodak, and Hewlett-Packard. During his first 25 years as a design
practitioner, Neumeier won hundreds of awards for design excellence,
and his writing appeared regularly in trade journals and design
publications.
In 1996 he launched CRITIQUE, the magazine of graphic design
thinking, which quickly became the leading forum for improving design
effectiveness. In editing CRITIQUE, Neumeier joined the conversation
about how to bridge the gap between strategy and design, which led
directly to the formation of Neutron and the ideas in THE BRAND
GAP.
Today Neumeier lives with his wife in Palo Alto, California. He has tried
to develop a hobby or sports addiction—if only to seem more interesting
—but so far has found nothing to equal the thrill of simply working with

imaginative people every day. Both inside and outside Neutron,
Neumeier is a frequent speaker on design, brand, and creative
collaboration. You can reach him at marty@neutronllc.com.

Index

A
AAKER, DAVID 46
ADLER, STELLA 136
AESTHETICS
AND DIFFERENTIATION 34-35
IMPORTANCE OF 19
OF WEB SITES 96-99
ARISTOTLE 88
AUDIENCE RESEARCH. SEE VALIDATION
AVATARS 87-89

B
BAUTISTA, STEVE 118
BERRA, YOGI 111
BRAND
DEFINITION OF 1-3, 146, 149
IMPORTANCE OF 8
PROTECTING 140-141
WORTH OF 12, 150
BRAND AGENCY COLLABORATION
MODEL 56
BRAND EXTENSIONS 46-47
BRAND MANAGEMENT
CHARISMATIC BRANDS 18-19
COLLABORATION 51-52
BRAND AGENCY MODEL 56
INTEGRATED MARKETING TEAM MODEL 58, 142-145
NETWORK ORGANIZATION MODEL (“HOLLYWOOD
MODEL”) 62-66
ONE-STOP SHOP MODEL 54-56

PROTOTYPES 68-69
SUMMARY OF CONCEPTS 151-153
COMPONENTS OF 14-15
CULTIVATION
ADVANTAGES OF 146
BRAND AS COMPASS 138-139
CBOS (CHIEF BRANDING OFFICERS) 142-145
COLLABORATION 136
LIVING BRANDS 133-135
PROTECTING THE BRAND 140-141
SUMMARY OF CONCEPTS 155-157
DEFINITION OF 2-3
DIFFERENTIATION
AND AESTHETICS 34-35
BRAND EXTENSIONS 46-47
CONSUMER-CENTRIC MARKETING 38-39
FOCUS, IMPORTANCE OF 44-45
GLOBALISM VERSUS TRIBALISM 40-41
QUESTIONS TO ASK 31-33
SUMMARY OF CONCEPTS 150-151
INNOVATION 73-74
CREATIVITY 76-77
FEAR OF 80-81
ICONS AND AVATARS 87-89
NAMES, CRITERIA FOR 82-85
PACKAGING, 90-91, 94-95
SUMMARY OF CONCEPTS 153-154
WEB SITE AESTHETICS 96-99
TRUST, IMPORTANCE OF 10-11
VALIDATION
COMMUNICATION MODELS 101-103
CONCEPT TESTS 118-121
CRITERIA FOR 126-127
FIELD TESTS 124-125
FOCUS GROUPS 110-111
MARKET RESEARCH, AVERSION TO 106-107
PERSONAL PREFERENCES 105
QUANTITATIVE STUDIES 112-113
SUMMARY OF CONCEPTS 154-155
SWAP TESTS 114-115

C
CBOS (CHIEF BRANDING OFFICERS) 142-145
CHARISMATIC BRANDS 18-19
COGNITIVE SYSTEM AND DIFFERENTIATION 34-35
COLLABORATION 51-52
BRAND AGENCY MODEL 56
INTEGRATED MARKETING TEAM MODEL 58, 142-145
FOR LIVING BRANDS 136
NETWORK ORGANIZATION MODEL (“HOLLYWOOD
MODEL”) 62-66
ONE-STOP SHOP MODEL 54-56
PROTOTYPES 68-69
SUMMARY OF CONCEPTS 151-153
COMMUNICATION MODELS 101-103
COMPASS, BRAND AS 138-139
CONCEPT TESTS 118-119
CONSUMER-CENTRIC MARKETING 38-39
CORPORATE IDENTITY SYSTEMS,
DEFINITION OF 1-2
COWARD, NOEL 66
CREATIVITY 76-77
AS COMPONENT OF BRAND MANAGEMENT 15
CULTIVATION
ADVANTAGES OF 146
BRAND AS COMPASS 138-139
CBOS (CHIEF BRANDING OFFICERS) 142-145
COLLABORATION 136
LIVING BRANDS 133-135
PROTECTING THE BRAND 140-141
SUMMARY OF CONCEPTS 155-157
CURRENCY, AS EXAMPLE OF TRUST 10-11

D
DE BONO, EDWARD 38-39
DEPTH (VALIDATION CRITERIA) 127
DESIGN, GOALS OF 35

DIFFERENTIATION
AND AESTHETICS 34-35
BRAND EXTENSIONS 46-47
CONSUMER-CENTRIC MARKETING 38-39
FOCUS, IMPORTANCE OF 44-45
GLOBALISM VERSUS TRIBALISM 40-41
QUESTIONS TO ASK 31-33
SUMMARY OF CONCEPTS 150-151
DISTINCTIVENESS (VALIDATION CRITERIA) 126
DOLLAR VALUE. SEE WORTH OF BRANDS
DRUCKER, PETER 52

E
ETHNOGRAPHY 111
EXTENDIBILITY (VALIDATION CRITERIA) 127

F
FEAR OF INNOVATION 80-81
FEEDBACK 102-103
FIELD TESTS 124-125
FOCUS, IMPORTANCE OF 44-45
FOCUS GROUPS 110-111
FORD, HENRY 107
FRANKLIN, BENJAMIN 74

G
GALLE, GREG 31
GLOBALISM VERSUS TRIBALISM 40-41
GUT FEELINGS, DEFINITION OF 2

H
HAND TESTS 115

HAWTHORNE EFFECT 110
“HOLLYWOOD” MODEL (NETWORK ORGANIZATION MODEL)
62-66

I
ICONS 87-89
INNOVATION 73-74
CREATIVITY 76-77
FEAR OF 80-81
ICONS AND AVATARS 87-89
NAMES, CRITERIA FOR 82-85
PACKAGING 90-91, 94-95
SUMMARY OF CONCEPTS 153-154
WEBSITE AESTHETICS 96-99
INTEGRATED MARKETING TEAM
COLLABORATION MODEL 58, 142-145

J
JACOBS, JANE 51

K
KAWASAKI, GUY 133
KELLEY, TOM 68

L
LIVING BRANDS 133-135
COLLABORATION 136
AS COMPASS 138-139
PROTECTING 140-141
LOEWY, RAYMOND 76
LOGOS, DEFINITION OF 1

M
MARKET RESEARCH, AVERSION TO 106-107. SEE
VALIDATION
MARKETING. SEE ALSO BRAND MANAGEMENT
CONSUMER-CENTRIC MARKETING 38-39
SHIFT IN GOALS OF 38-39
MCLUHAN, MARSHALL 40
MEMORABILITY (VALIDATION CRITERIA) 126
MORITA, AKIO 106

N
NAMES, CRITERIA FOR 82-85
NATURAL READING SEQUENCE
AND PACKAGING 91, 94-95
AND WEB SITES 96-99
NETWORK ORGANIZATION MODEL
(“HOLLYWOOD MODEL”) 62-66

O
OGILVY, DAVID 94
ONE-STOP SHOP COLLABORATION
MODEL 54-56
ORIGINALITY. SEE CREATIVITY
OUTSOURCING COLLABORATION MODELS
BRAND AGENCY MODEL 56
ONE-STOP SHOP MODEL 54-56

P
PACKAGING 90-91, 94-95
PERSONAL PREFERENCES (TESTING DESIGNS) 105
PRODUCTS, SELECTING (IMPORTANCE OF BRAND) 8
PROTECTING THE BRAND 140-141

ALSO

PROTOTYPES 68-69
CONCEPT TESTS 118-121
FIELD TESTS 124-125

Q
QUANTITATIVE STUDIES
(MARKET RESEARCH) 112-113

R
RATIONAL THINKING 73
READING SEQUENCE
AND PACKAGING 91, 94-95
AND WEB SITES 96-99
RELEVANCE (VALIDATION CRITERIA) 126
ROCKRISE, SUSAN 142

S
SELECTING PRODUCTS
IMPORTANCE OF BRAND 8
SHAW, GEORGE BERNARD 82
SPECIALIZATION 45
STRATEGY, AS COMPONENT OF BRAND MANAGEMENT 15
SWAP TESTS 114-115

T
TESTING. SEE VALIDATION
TRADEMARKS, DEFINITION OF 1
TRIBALISM VERSUS GLOBALISM 40-41
TROUT, JACK 47
TRUST, IMPORTANCE OF 10-11

V

VALIDATION
COMMUNICATION MODELS 101-103
CONCEPT TESTS 118-121
CRITERIA FOR 126
FIELD TESTS 124-125
FOCUS GROUPS 110-111
MARKET RESEARCH, AVERSION TO 106-107
PERSONAL PREFERENCES 105
QUANTITATIVE STUDIES 112-113
SUMMARY OF CONCEPTS 154-155
SWAP TESTS 114-115
VALUATION. SEE WORTH OF BRANDS
VISUAL SYSTEM AND DIFFERENTIATION 34-35

W
WEBSITE AESTHETICS 96-99
WORTH OF BRANDS 12, 150

Z
ZEISS, CARL 84

