DIFFERENTIATE
    OR DIE
 Survival in Our Era of Killer
 Competition, Second Edition

    JACK TROUT
               with

      Steve Rivkin

      JOHN WILEY & SONS, INC.
DIFFERENTIATE
    OR DIE
DIFFERENTIATE
    OR DIE
 Survival in Our Era of Killer
 Competition, Second Edition

    JACK TROUT
               with

      Steve Rivkin

      JOHN WILEY & SONS, INC.
Copyright # 2000, 2008 by Jack Trout. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in
any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or
otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright
Act, without either the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through
payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222
Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 646-8600, or on the web at
www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the
Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030,
(201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or online at http://www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their
best efforts in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to
the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any
implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be
created or extended by sales representatives or written sales materials. The advice and
strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with a
professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of
profit or any other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental,
consequential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please
contact our Customer Care Department within the United States at (800) 762-2974, outside
the United States at (317) 572-3993 or fax (317) 572-4002.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in
print may not be available in electronic books. For more information about Wiley products,
visit our web site at www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:

Trout, Jack.
  Differentiate or die : survival in our era of killer competition / Jack
Trout, with Steve Rivkin.—2nd ed.
       p. cm.
  Includes bibliographical references and index.
  ISBN 978-0-470-22339-0 (cloth)
  1. Advertising—Brand name products. 2. Brand name products. 3. Competition.
I. Rivkin, Steve, 1947– II. Title.
  HF5415.T727         2008
  658.8—dc22
                                                                             2007052393
Printed in the United States of America.
10 9 8       7 6 5       4 3 2 1
                     To Rosser Reeves,
the man who made the ‘‘unique selling proposition’’ famous.
           He was truly a man ahead of his time.
      Little did any of us realize just how competitive
                  the world would become.
                           PREFACE

F
       or what seems like several lifetimes, my partners and I have
       been preaching the importance of being different:

  &   In Positioning, being different meant differentiating yourself
      in the mind of your prospect.
  &   In Marketing Warfare, being different meant using a differen-
      tiating idea to defend, attack, flank, or become a guerrilla.
  &   In the 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing, being different meant
      using a differentiating idea to build a brand.
  &   In the Power of Simplicity, being different meant using a strat-
      egy that was all about differentiation.

   Being different is at the heart of everything we’ve done for over
30 years.
   You might assume that by now the message has been delivered.
Everyone is busy building ‘‘differentiation’’ into their plans. And no
one would leave home without his or her differentiating idea.
Right?
   Wrong.
   What we tend to see are two types of organizations. One type still
doesn’t get it. They’re out there doing battle with ‘‘higher quality’’
or ‘‘good value’’ or good old ‘‘better products.’’ They feel that they
are better than their competitors and that truth will prevail.
   They surround themselves with gurus who talk about quality, em-
powerment, customer orientation, and various forms of leadership.

                                  vii
viii   Preface

Unfortunately, all of their competitors are surrounded by the same
cast of ‘‘you-can-get-better’’ gurus. Nothing different.
   The other type of organization understands the need to be differ-
ent. But after some prodding, they will admit that they just don’t
know how to do it. Their excuse: Our product or salesforce just isn’t
that much different from our competitors.
   They tend to get sucked in by the motivation crowd that prom-
ises peak performance, a winning attitude, and effective habits. Un-
fortunately, the same cast of characters is hanging around and
motivating their competitors. Nothing different.
   They don’t get much help from the big-name academics.
Harvard’s Michael Porter, for example, does talk about the need for
a unique position, but he never offers much help on how to be
unique. Instead, he talks about strategic continuity, deepening stra-
tegic position, and minimizing trade-offs. Nothing different.
   Their advertising agencies aren’t much better. They talk about
bonding, likability, breakthroughs, and cool. To them it’s all about
being artful, not scientific. Nothing different.
   This book is about changing all that. It outlines the many ways
you can be different while avoiding the lure of those things that
sound different but really aren’t.
   With this information in hand, you should be in a better position
to thrive in a very unforgiving and competitive world. It’s a book, if
you’ll pardon the pun, that can make a difference in your business.

                                                         JACK TROUT
                        CONTENTS

CHAPTER 1.    The Tyranny of Choice                          1

CHAPTER 2.    The Creeping Commoditization of Categories    11

CHAPTER 3.    Whatever Happened to the Unique Selling
              Proposition?                                  19

CHAPTER 4.    Reinventing the Unique Selling Proposition    27

CHAPTER 5.    Quality and Customer Orientation Are Rarely
              Differentiating Ideas                         35

CHAPTER 6.    Creativity Is Not a Differentiating Idea      45

CHAPTER 7.    Price Is Rarely a Differentiating Idea        55

CHAPTER 8.    Breadth of Line Is a Difficult Way to
              Differentiate                                 67

CHAPTER 9.    The Steps to Differentiation                  75

CHAPTER 10.   Differentiation Takes Place in the Mind       83

CHAPTER 11.   Being First Is a Differentiating Idea         93

CHAPTER 12.   Attribute Ownership Is a Way to
              Differentiate                                 103

                                 ix
x   Contents

CHAPTER 13.    Leadership Is a Way to Differentiate         117

CHAPTER 14.    Heritage Is a Differentiating Idea           125

CHAPTER 15.    Market Specialty Is a Differentiating Idea   137

CHAPTER 16.    Preference Is a Differentiating Idea         145

CHAPTER 17.    How a Product Is Made Can Be a
               Differentiating Idea                         155

CHAPTER 18.    Being the Latest Can Be a Differentiating
               Idea                                         165

CHAPTER 19.    Hotness Is a Way to Differentiate            175

CHAPTER 20.    Growth Can Destroy Differentiation           181

CHAPTER 21.    Differentiation Often Requires Sacrifice     191

CHAPTER 22.    Being Different in Different Places          199

CHAPTER 23.    Maintaining Your Difference                  207

CHAPTER 24.    Differentiation in the New World of Buzz     217

CHAPTER 25.    You Can Differentiate Anything               225

CHAPTER 26.    Who Is in Charge of Differentiation?         235

Epilogue                                                    243

Notes                                                       245

Index                                                       251
                         C H A P T E R

                                 1

     The Tyranny of Choice

I
     n the beginning, choice was not a problem. When our earliest
     ancestor wondered, ‘‘What’s for dinner?’’ the answer wasn’t
     very complicated. It was whatever animal in the neighborhood
he could run down, kill, and drag back to the cave.
   Today, you walk into a cavernous supermarket and gaze out over
a sea of different types and cuts of meats that someone else has run
down, killed, dressed, and packaged for you.
   Your problem is no longer catching it. Your problem is to try to
figure out which of the hundreds of different packages in the case to
buy. Red meat? White meat? The other white meat? Make-believe
meat?
   But that’s only the beginning. Now you have to figure out what
part of the animal you want. Loin? Chops? Ribs? Legs? Rump?
   And what do you bring home for those family members who
don’t eat meat?

                                 1
2   The Tyranny of Choice

Fishing for Dinner
Catching a fish for that early ancestor was simply a matter of sharp-
ening a stick and getting lucky.
   Today, it can mean drifting into a Bass Pro Shop, an L.L.Bean, a
Cabela’s, or an Orvis and being dazzled by a mind-boggling array of
rods, reels, lures, clothing, boats, you name it.
   At Bass Pro’s 300,000-square-foot flagship store in Springfield,
Missouri, they will give you a haircut and then make you a fishing
lure out of the clippings.
   Things have come a long way from that pointed stick.

Going to Dinner
Today, many people figure it’s better to have someone else figure out
what’s for dinner. But figuring out where to go is no easy decision in
a place like New York City.
   That’s why, in 1979, Nina and Tim Zagat created the first restau-
rant survey in New York City to help us with that difficult choice.
   Today, the pocket-size Zagat Surveys have become best-sellers,
with 300,000 participants rating and reviewing restaurants, bars,
and nightclubs in 54 different guidebooks.

An Explosion of Choice
What has changed in business over recent decades is the amazing
proliferation of product choices in just about every category. It’s
been estimated that there are a million standard stocking units
(SKUs) in the United States. An average supermarket has 40,000
SKUs. Now for the stunner: An average family gets 80 to 85 percent
of its needs from 150 SKUs. That means there’s a good chance we’ll
ignore 39,850 items in that store.
   Buying a car in the 1950s meant a choice between a model from
GM, Ford, Chrysler, or American Motors. Today, you have your
                                                Choice in Healthcare   3

pick of cars, still from GM, Ford, and Chrysler, but also from Acura,
Aston Martin, Audi, Bentley, BMW, Honda, Hyundai, Infiniti, Isuzu,
Jaguar, Jeep, Kia, Land Rover, Lexus, Maserati, Mazda, Mercedes,
Mitsubishi, Nissan, Porsche, Rolls-Royce, Saab, Saturn, Subaru,
Suzuki, Volkswagen, and Volvo. There were 140 motor vehicle
models available in the early 1970s. There are more than 300 today.
   And the choice of tires for these cars is even worse. It used to be
Goodyear, Firestone, General, and Sears. Today, at just one retail
outlet called The Tire Rack, you can browse the likes of Goodrich,
Bridgestone, Continental, Dunlop, Firestone, Fuzion, General,
Goodyear, Hankook, Kumho, Michelin, Pirelli, Sumitomo, Toyo,
Uniroyal, and Yokohama.
   The big difference is that what used to be national markets with
local companies competing for business has become a global market
with everyone competing for everyone’s business everywhere.

Choice in Healthcare
Consider something as basic as healthcare. In the old days, you had
your doctor, your hospital, Blue Cross, and perhaps Aetna/US
Healthcare, Medicare, or Medicaid. Now you have to deal with
new names like MedPartners, Cigna, Prucare, Columbia, Kaiser,
Wellpoint, Quorum, Oxford, Americare, Multiplan, and concepts
like Health Maintenance Organizations (HMO), Peer Review
Organizations (PRO), Physician Hospital Organizations (PHO),
and Preferred Provider Organizations (PPO).
   It’s gotten so confusing that magazines like U.S. News & World
Report have taken to rating hospitals and HMOs to make our choice
easier.
   California is even getting into a healthcare public ‘‘report card’’
arena. It started with several physician groups and health plans pub-
lishing ‘‘report cards’’ evaluating the performance of network pro-
viders. Then the 2.1-million-member PacifiCare of California
published its new ‘‘Quality Index’’ report on its web site, rating
4   The Tyranny of Choice

more than 100 physician-based organizations according to clinical
outcome measures, as well as member satisfaction, administrative
data, and professional/organizational data.
   It’s gotten so confusing that people aren’t worrying about getting
sick. They worry more about where you go to get better.

Choice in Consumer Electronics
One keen observer wandered into his local consumer electronics
superstore and spent some time in the audio aisle. There were 74
different stereo tuners, 55 CD players, 32 tape players, and 50 sets
of speakers. (Do your ears hurt yet?)
   Given the fact that these components could be mixed and
matched anyway you want, that means there is the opportunity to
create 6.5 million different stereo systems. (Now we know your ears
hurt.)

Choice Is Spreading
What we just described is what has happened to the U.S. market,
which, of the world’s markets, has by far the most choice (because
our citizens have the most money and the most marketing people
trying to get it from them).
   Consider an emerging nation like China. After decades of buying
generic food products manufactured by state-owned enterprises,
China’s consumers now can choose from a growing array of domes-
tic and foreign brand-name products each time they go shopping.
According to a recent survey, a national market for brand-name
food products has already begun to emerge. Already China has 135
‘‘national’’ food brands from which to pick. They’ve got a long way
to go, but they are on their way to some serious tyranny.
   Some markets are far from emerging. Countries like Liberia,
Somalia, North Korea, and Tanzania are so poor and chaotic that
choice is but a gleam in people’s eyes.
                                              The ‘‘Choice Industry’’   5

The Law of Division
What drives choice is the law of division, which was published in
The 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing.
   Like an amoeba dividing in a petri dish, the marketing arena can
be viewed as an ever-expanding sea of categories.
   A category starts off as a single entity. Computers, for example.
But over time, the category breaks up into other segments: main-
frames, minicomputers, workstations, personal computers, laptops,
notebooks, pen computers.
   Like the computer, the automobile started off as a single cate-
gory. Three brands (Chevrolet, Ford, and Plymouth) dominated the
market. Then the category divided. Today, we have luxury cars,
moderately priced cars, and inexpensive cars; full-size, intermediate,
and compacts; sports cars, four-wheel-drive vehicles, RVs, mini-
vans, and suburbans (station wagons on steroids).
   In the television industry, ABC, CBS, and NBC once accounted
for 90 percent of the viewing audience. Now we have network,
independent, cable, satellite, and public television. Today, a basic
wired household has hundreds of channels from which to choose.
Add in ‘‘streaming video’’ and you’re talking about a 500-channel
universe. With all that, if you flip through the channels to try to
find something to watch, by the time you find it, the show will be
over.
   ‘‘Division’’ is a process that is unstoppable. If you have any
doubts, consider Table 1.1 on the explosion of choice.1

The ‘‘Choice Industry’’
All this has led to an entire industry dedicated to helping people
with their choices. We’ve already talked about Zagat’s restaurant
guides and the healthcare report cards.
   Everywhere you turn, someone is offering advice on things like
which of the 8,000 mutual funds to buy. Or how to find the right
dentist in St. Louis. Or the right MBA program from among
6   The Tyranny of Choice

                  Table 1.1 The Explosion of Choice
Item                             Early 1970s            Late 1990s
Vehicle models                         140                     260
KFC menu items                           7                      14
Vehicle styles                         654                   1,212
Frito-Lay chip varieties                10                      78
SUV styles                               8                      38
Breakfast cereals                      160                     340
PC models                                0                     400
Software titles                          0                 250,000
Soft drink brands                       20                      87
Bottled water brands                    16                      50
Milk types                               4                      19
Colgate toothpastes                      2                      17
Magazine titles                        339                     790
Mouthwashes                             15                      66
New book titles                     40,530                  77,446
Dental flosses                          12                      64
Community colleges                     886                   1,742
Prescription drugs                   6,131                   7,563
Amusement parks                        362                   1,174
OTC pain relievers                      17                     141
TV screen sizes                          5                      15
Levi’s jean styles                      41                      70
Houston TV channels                      5                     185
Running shoe styles                      5                     285
Radio stations                       7,038                  12,458
Women’s hosiery styles                   5                      90
McDonald’s items                        13                      43
Contact lens types                       1                      36

hundreds of business schools. (Which one will help me get a Wall
Street job?)
   The Internet is filled with dot-coms that can help you find and
select anything you can imagine, all promised at rock-bottom prices.
                                                      The ‘‘Choice Industry’’     7

   Magazines like Consumer Reports and Consumers Digest deal with
the onslaught of products and choices by rotating the categories on
which they report. The only problem is that they go into so much
detail that you’re more confused than when you started.
   Consumer psychologists say this sea of choices is driving
us bonkers. Consider what Carol Moog, PhD, has to say on the
subject: ‘‘Too many choices, all of which can be fulfilled in-
stantly, indulged immediately, keeps children—and adults—
infantile. From a marketing perspective, people stop caring, get
as fat and fatigued as foie gras geese, and lose their decision-
making capabilities. They withdraw and protect against the over-
stimulation; they get ‘bored.’ ’’2

Choice Can Be a Turnoff
The typical argument is that extensive choice is appealing. But as
Dr. Moog suggests, it can actually be a turnoff. Choice can actually
hinder the motivation to buy.
   Consider the research done into 401(k) plans and the employees
who sign up for them. Researchers studied data on 800,000 employ-
ees of 647 plans in 69 industries in the year 2001.
   What happened? As the number of fund options increased,
employee participation rates dropped. Too many choices spelled
confusion. And confusion spelled, ‘‘No thanks.’’
   Swarthmore sociology professor Barry Schwartz wrote a book
about these turnoffs. He called it The Paradox of Choice. Speaking at
an industry forum in 2006, he said:

  People are so overwhelmed with choice that it tends to paralyze them. Too
  much choice makes people more likely to defer decisions. It raises expect-
  ations and makes people blame themselves for choosing poorly. You don’t
  expect much if there are only two pairs of jeans to choose from. If there are
  hundreds, you expect one to be perfect.3
8   The Tyranny of Choice

Choice Can Be Cruel
Barry Schwartz calls it a paradox. He’s too kind. It’s actually a
tyranny. The dictionary defines tyranny as absolute power that
often is harsh or cruel.
   So it is with choice. With the enormous competition, markets
today are driven by choice. The customer has so many good alter-
natives that you pay dearly for your mistakes. Your competitors get
your business and you don’t get it back very easily. Companies that
don’t understand this will not survive. (Now that’s cruel.)
   Just look at some of the names on the headstones in the brand
graveyard: American Motors, Braniff Airlines, Burger Chef, Carte
Blanche, Eastern Airlines, Gainesburgers, Gimbel’s, Hathaway
shirts, Horn & Hardart, Mr. Salty pretzels, Philco, Trans World
Airlines, Trump Shuttle, VisiCalc, Woolworth’s.
   And this is only a short list of names that are no longer with us.

You Have to Be Careful
If you ignore your uniqueness and try to be everything for every-
body, you quickly undermine what makes you different. Consider
Chevrolet. Once the dominant good-value family car, Chevrolet
tried to add ‘‘expensive,’’ ‘‘sporty,’’ ‘‘small,’’ and ‘‘truck’’ to their
identity. Their ‘‘differentness’’ melted away as did their business.
    Look at Table 1.2 of the top-selling U.S. cars in 2006. Chevy’s
first appearance is at #5, and sales to car rental fleets have a lot to
do with that.
    If you ignore changes in the market, your difference can become
less important. Consider Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC).
Once the U.S.’s premier minicomputer manufacturer, they ignored
changing technology that was making desktop computing the driv-
ing force in the office. Their ‘‘differentness’’ became less important.
DEC is now deceased, having been absorbed by Compaq, one of the
surviving biggies in desktop computing.
                                        And It Will Only Get Worse   9

            Table 1.2 Top-Selling U.S. Cars in 2006
           1.      Toyota Camry                 448,445
           2.      Toyota Corolla/Matrix        387,388
           3.      Honda Accord                 354,441
           4.      Honda Civic                  316,638
           5.      Chevrolet Impala             289,868
           6.      Nissan Altima                232,457
           7.      Chevrolet Cobalt             211,449
           8.      Ford Focus                   177,006
           9.      Ford Taurus                  174,803
          10.      Ford Mustang                 166,530

    If you stay in the shadow of your larger competitors and never
establish your differentness, you will always be weak. Consider
Westinghouse. They never emerged from the shadow of General
Electric. Today, Westinghouse is no longer with us. Or consider
Goodrich. Over the years, Goodrich could reinvent the wheel and
Goodyear would get all the credit. Because of the name confusion
with their larger competitor, it was all but impossible to separate
themselves in the minds of their prospects. Today, Goodrich is on a
life-support system.
    It’s an unforgiving world out there.

And It Will Only Get Worse
Don’t bet that all this will calm down. We believe that it will get
worse for the simple reason that choice appears to beget more
choice.
   In a book titled Faster, author James Glieck outlines what can
only be called a bewildering future which he describes as, ‘‘The
acceleration of just about everything.’’ Consider the following
scenario that he describes:
10   The Tyranny of Choice

 This proliferation of choice represents yet another positive feedback
 loop—a whole menagerie of such loops. The more information
 glut bears down on you, the more Internet ‘‘portals’’ and search en-
 gines and infobots arise to help by pouring information your way.
 The more telephone lines you have, the more you need. The more
 patents, the more patent lawyers and patent search services. The
 more cookbooks you buy or browse, the more you feel the need to
 serve your guests something new; the more cookbooks you need.
 The complications beget choice; the choices inspire technology;
 the technologies create complication. Without the distribution and
 manufacturing efficiencies of the modern age, without toll-free
 numbers and express delivery and bar codes and scanners and,
 above all, computers, the choices would not be multiplying like
 this.4

 Ladies and gentlemen, we haven’t seen anything yet.
                         C H A P T E R

                                 2

             The Creeping
            Commoditization
             of Categories

W
          hile categories are expanding thanks to the law of divi-
          sion, something sinister is happening. Despite all the at-
          tention paid to branding these days, more and more of
these categories are sliding into commoditization. In other words,
fewer and fewer of the brands in these categories are well differenti-
ated. In people’s minds, they are there but that’s about all. You
could call them placeholders. They are sort of like squatters. They
live there but don’t own a meaningful idea that makes them unique.

                                 11
12   The Creeping Commoditization of Categories

Wishful Thinking versus Reality
Today everybody from clothing designers to celebrities claims to be
a brand, but ultimately the products and services must face the real-
ities of the marketplace—and the consumers. Consumers ask,
‘‘What do you have on offer? How are you different from others in
the category? How are you better? Do you represent values that are
valuable to me and make me feel valued? How are you differentiated
from the others?’’
   ‘‘It’s no secret that more and more companies are having prob-
lems differentiating themselves from their competitors. The Total
Quality and Process Re-Engineering movements of the last two dec-
ades of the 20th century pretty much guaranteed that companies
that actually made it to the 21st century were going to be virtually
indistinguishable from one another,’’ noted Robert Passikoff, found-
er of Brand Keys, Inc., a New York-based loyalty and engagement
research consultancy. ‘‘After hundreds of millions of dollars of ad-
vertising, consumers are, of course, aware of these companies, but
the real question is do they differentiate themselves from the other
players in their categories?’’
   Differentiation, of course, exists, and does so on the basis of a prod-
uct or service actually owning values—real or perceived, rational or
emotional—and occupying a real place in the consumers’ minds—
beyond the consumer just being aware of them. And the degree to
which they possess these values and have meaning in the consumers’
lives (beyond primacy of product) determines whether they have dif-
ferentiated themselves. But fewer and fewer products and services are
able to demonstrate any degree of actual differentiation.

The Hard Facts
To prove this, Brand Keys conducted an analysis of 1,847 products
and services, in 75 categories, via their Customer Loyalty Engage-
ment Index1. Using a combination of psychological inquiry and
factor regression, and causal path analyses, the customer
                                                        The Hard Facts      13

            Category Place Holder              Brand
Commodity                                                       Human Brand

      Low                                                  Extremely High
            Degree of Differentiation or Meaning to Consumers

   Figure 2.1 Degree of Differentiation or Meaning to Customers.

assessments of the products and services, predictive of how posi-
tively or negatively consumers will act toward the products, identi-
fied a continuum along which all products and services could be
placed, depending on their degree of differentiation (Figure 2.1).
As you migrate from left to right, you go from no (or low) differ-
entiation to extremely high differentiation.
   On average, the study found that only 21 percent of all the prod-
ucts and services examined had any points of differentiation that
were meaningful to the consumers. This is nearly 10 percent less
than a benchmark study that was conducted in 2003.
   On the far left are Commodities, products and services so basic
that they are not differentiated in the minds of the consumer by
anything other than price.
   Moving to the right we have Category Placeholders. This is a
new designation for products or services with strong awareness in
the category in which they compete, but so absent of any meaning
that they cannot be differentiated from the competition in the
minds of the consumer. Think General Motors or The Gap.
   Next, comes 21st Century Differentiated Brands. These are prod-
ucts and services that are strongly differentiated from the competi-
tion. Think Toyota or Apple.
   Finally, the study identified the apex of differentiation, the Hu-
man Brand. This is an actual human being, most often the company
founder, who represents 100 percent of the differentiation for the
company. While this designation represents the highest level of dif-
ferentiation, the fragility of brands that are invested mainly in a hu-
man being are fodder for the popular press since any sudden change
in public perception of that human brand has an immediate—and
14   The Creeping Commoditization of Categories

potentially devastating—effect on the brand’s equity, and soon
after, its profitability. Think Martha Stewart or Donald Trump.

Category Differentiation
Degree of differentiation differed by category. In the Bar Soap cate-
gory, for example, 100 percent of the brands differentiated them-
selves. Fifty percent of Credit Card offerings were found to stand for
something in the minds of the consumers. But Banks, Motor Oil,
and 20 other categories—nearly a third of all the categories exam-
ined—did not have any differentiated brands. The products and
services were known, but not for anything in particular.
   A list of the 75 categories appears in Table 2.1. The percentage
indicates—according to the consumers of the category—the num-
ber of actual differentiated brands in the category. You can say that
this chart can show you how much trouble you are in, especially if
you live in a low percentage category.

             Table 2.1 Percentage of Differentiation in
             Each Category
        Category                                  Percentage
        Airline                                       29
        Allergy medicine(OTC)                          0
        Allergy medicine (Rx)                          0
        Athletic footwear                             29
        Automotive                                    38
        Baby care                                     20
        Bank                                           0
        Beer (LIGHT)                                  25
        Beer (Regular)                                29
        Bottled water                                 13
        Cable service providers                        0
        Car insurance company                         40
        Car rental company                            57
        Casual dining                                 20
                                      The Hard Facts   15

              Table 2.1 (Continued)
Category                              Percentage
Cell phones                               25
Cereal breakfast food                     37
Cigarettes                                29
Chewing gum                               20
Clothing catalogues                        0
Coffee and doughnuts                      33
Canned coffee                              0
Computer                                   9
Cosmetics                                 14
Credit card                               50
Cruise ships                              20
Diapers                                    0
Digital cameras                            0
Dog food                                  20
DVD players                                0
Energy provider                           13
Evening news shows                        50
Fashion brands                            20
Feminine products                          0
Gasoline                                  14
HDTV                                       8
Hotel                                     22
Ice cream                                 50
Insurance company                          0
Internet service providers                 0
Laundry detergent                         11
Long distance phone Service                0
Magazines                                 37
Major league sports                       75
Morning news shows                        50
Motor oil                                  0
Motorcycles                               20
MP3/digital music players                 20
                                       (Continued )
16   The Creeping Commoditization of Categories

                       Table 2.1 (Continued)
        Category                                  Percentage
        Mutual fund                                   0
        Office copier                                 0
        Online books and music                       25
        Online brokerage                             17
        Online travel                                25
        OTC pain reliever                            29
        Paper towels                                  0
        Parcel delivery                              50
        Potato chips                                 25
        Pizza                                        14
        Printers                                      0
        Quick-serve restaurants                      30
        Retail stores (apparel)                      50
        Retail stores (discount)                     40
        Retail stores (department)                    0
        Retail stores (electronics)                   0
        Retail stores (office supplies)               0
        Retail stores (home improvement)              0
        Satellite radio                               0
        Search engine                                 9
        Skin care                                    60
        Soap                                        100
        Soft drink (diet)                             0
        Soft drink (regular)                         20
        Toilet paper                                 80
        Toothpaste                                   33
        Wireless phone service                       20
        Wristwatches                                 38

  Table 2.1 shows you how much trouble you are in especially if
you live in a low percentage category.

Some Further Explanation
To better explain this, take a category such as Automotive. This has
a reasonable number such as 38 percent. This means that you have a
                                                    The Hard Facts   17

fair number of differentiated brands such as Toyota (Reliability) or
BMW (Driving) or Volvo (Safety) or Mercedes (Prestige) or Ferrari
(Speed). It also means that you have a large number of placeholders
with little differentiation. Think General Motors or Ford.
   Now let’s look at that 0 percent differentiation degree in the
Banking sector. How can that be? All these big name banks spend
millions on advertising telling us how wonderful they are to do busi-
ness with. Well, class, the answer is obvious. Mergermania has taken
a terrible toll. And after all these mergers, who knows who is who
these days much less for what they stand. As the psychologists ad-
vise, without a line to the past, how can you be sure of a line to the
future. The Banking category is a mess and deserves their 0 percent.
   In general, why is this creeping commoditization happening? Be-
cause marketers are acting in ways that are diluting brands instead
of building them. First, they’re relying too heavily on promotional
programs. Panicked by demands from sales departments and big re-
tailers, manufacturers have shifted money away from brand building
and into price-oriented promotions, like coupons and giveaways,
that make distributors happy. The more you focus buyers on deals,
the more you distract them from your brand.
   Second, marketers aren’t reining in their ad agencies’ bad in-
stincts. Instead of concentrating on how a product differs from (and
outperforms) its rivals, the agencies fall prey to what we call the two
curses. In the curse of the clicker, agencies are so anxious to prevent
TV viewers from channel surfing during their ad that they focus on
production tricks like eye-popping graphics or strange situations to
keep viewers’ thumbs off their remotes. The curse of the Clio,
meanwhile, drives agencies to create clever, funny, and entertain-
ing ads in hopes of nabbing the coveted award. What we don’t get
is a distinct message that helps consumers tell one brand from an-
other. A case in point: Another well-known research company, Co-
pernicus, researched 340 commercials shown in prime time and
identified a differentiating brand message—that is, a clear position-
ing—in only 7 percent of those ads.1
   Third, the sea of management consultants rarely get into this
subject in a meaningful way. The reason: They don’t understand
18   The Creeping Commoditization of Categories

much about the mind of the customer, which is where the market-
ing battles take place. Ironically, Peter Drucker, the father of man-
agement consulting, did understand it, as we point out in the
Epilogue of this book.
   While it’s valid to point the finger at marketers, ultimately the
CEO must take the lead in reversing any brand dilution. A loud
reminder needs to come from the top that without a clear differenti-
ating idea attached to a brand, all you’re left with to motivate
buyers is price. But your competitors can cut prices, too, so without
strong branding, prices will fall, as will profits.
   What the Brand Keys study proves is that the lack of differentia-
tion continues to grow and this is a dangerous trend. In the real
marketplace, today’s marketers must be able to accurately pinpoint
their products’ and services’ points of differentiation or they will
become Category Placeholders. And that’s just one step away from
becoming a commodity.
   What’s missing is what used to be called a USP (or unique selling
proposition).
                         C H A P T E R

                                 3

Whatever Happened to the
Unique Selling Proposition?

I
     n 1960, an advertising agency chairman named Rosser Reeves
     was known as the high priest of hard sell. He wrote a very popu-
     lar book titled Reality in Advertising (New York: Knopf, 1961).
His book was translated into 28 languages and was widely used as a
college textbook. In many ways, it was the beginning of modern-day
marketing.
   In his book, he introduced and defined a concept called the
unique selling proposition, or USP for short.

The Definition
To Rosser, USP was a precise term so he gave it a three-part
definition:

                                 19
20   Whatever Happened to the Unique Selling Proposition?

  1. Each advertisement must make a proposition to the consumer.
     Not just words, not just product puffery, not just show-window
     advertising. Each advertisement must say to each reader: ‘‘Buy
     this product, and you will get this specific benefit.’’
  2. The proposition must be one that the competition either can-
     not, or does not, offer. It must be unique—either a uniqueness
     of the brand or a claim not otherwise made in that particular
     field of advertising.
  3. The proposition must be so strong that it can move the mass
     millions (i.e., to pull over new customers to your product).1

He went on to say that most advertising in that day was ‘‘the tired art
of puffery.’’ There was no real message. Copywriters who did not
understand reality wrote these advertisements.
   Well, you might think that this was an argument of the past and
that Mr. Reeves’s ideas have long been accepted by today’s advertis-
ing practitioner.
   Wrong.

The Argument Still Rages
What’s stunning is that the argument still rages on Madison Ave-
nue. A front-page article in Advertising Age that was published 37
years after Mr. Reeves’s book proclaimed:

  ‘‘Poets vs. killers’’: Perpetual ad debate—stress art or stick to hard
  sell?—is reaching fever pitch with fortunes hanging in the balance.2

  This article, that went on for pages, laid out the battle between
the creatives who see their work as artful and emotional and the
marketers who want advertising that is factual and rational.
  One group wants to bond with the customer. The other group
wants to sell the customer.
                                              Step 1 in Building Brands   21

  It’s time we stopped arguing and faced not reality in advertising
but reality in the marketplace.

Where’s Rosser Now That We Need Him?
When Mr. Reeves was talking about being different, the world was
an easy place. Global competition didn’t exist. In fact, by today’s
standards, real competition barely existed.
   The concept of being unique or different is far more important in
the year 2008 than it was in 1960.
   While to sell or not to sell arguments have been raging, the New
World Order has suddenly arrived. Today, many companies have
bigger sales than many countries have gross national products. The
top 500 global companies now represent 70 percent of the world’s
trade.
   Mergers and acquisitions are everywhere as the rich get richer
and bigger. Not only is there more competition, there is tougher
and smarter competition.
   What this new competition is often able to exploit is the fact
that buying behavior isn’t just about people and income, it’s also
about how dissatisfied consumers are with present alternatives.

Step 1 in Building Brands
There are many books on branding but very few of them talk much
about differentiation. And if it does get mentioned, rarely do au-
thors go much beyond talking about the fact that branding is impor-
tant to do.
   Consider Young & Rubicam, a very large and talented global ad-
vertising agency that has developed a system they call ‘‘brand sci-
ence.’’ They say that ‘‘differentiation is first.’’ It defines a brand and
distinguishes it from all others. It is how brands are born and how
they die as differentiation declines. (We do believe they’ve got it
right.)
22   Whatever Happened to the Unique Selling Proposition?

    But rather than really get into the subject, they quickly segue to
things like relevance, esteem, knowledge, and brand power grids.
    Well, good readers, we plan on going further. If differentiation is
about the life and death of a brand, we feel it’s worth your while to
explore this subject in depth. (Good old Rosser would have wanted
it that way.)

The Importance of Being Different
Choosing among multiple options is always based on differences,
implicit or explicit. Psychologists point out that vividly differenti-
ated differences that are anchored to a product can enhance memo-
ry because they can be appreciated intellectually. In other words, if
you’re advertising a product, you ought to give the consumer a rea-
son to choose that product. If you can entertain at the same time,
that’s great.
   Unfortunately, the fact is that many advertising people don’t ap-
preciate the need to offer the prospect a unique selling proposition.
   Most of these people feel that selling isn’t cool and that people
only respond to companies that don’t try to sell them. Besides, many
will argue, there often isn’t enough difference to talk about in the
products. What they ignore is the fact that, whether or not people
like to be sold, in a sea of choice, a prospect still has the problem of
figuring out what to buy. In other words, alternatives are but the raw
material of decision making. And decisions must be made.

How People Figure Things Out
Psychologists think a lot about how people solve problems. They’ve
come up with four functions that come into play: intuition, think-
ing, feeling, and sensing. People tend to lead their decision-making
process with one of these functions. Let’s look at these functions
from a selling point of view.
                                          How People Figure Things Out   23

Differentiating with Intuitives
People who use intuition or intuitives concentrate on the possibil-
ities. They avoid the details and tend to look at the big picture.
   This type of person would be very susceptible to a differentiating
strategy based on your product being the next generation in its cat-
egory. When the makers of Advil positioned their new ibuprofen as
‘‘advanced medicine for pain,’’ they were differentiating themselves
perfectly for the big-picture crowd.
   Intuitives are very interested in the possibility of what’s coming
next. This is why selling to intuitives is often a very effective way to
present a new type of product.

Differentiating with Thinkers
Thinkers are analytical, precise, and logical. They process a lot of
information, often ignoring the emotional or feeling aspects of a sit-
uation. While they may appear to be ruthless or uncaring, that isn’t
really accurate. They are just thinking (Henry Kissinger types).
   These people are susceptible to a logical argument of facts about
a product. BMW’s differentiating strategy of ‘‘the ultimate driving
machine’’ probably works very well with this crowd, especially when
they are presented with facts like ergonomic design, maneuverabil-
ity, non-overweight engine, and lots of expert reviews on how
BMWs drive.

Differentiating with Feelers
Feelers are interested in the feelings of others. They dislike intellec-
tual analysis and follow their own likes and dislikes. They enjoy
working with people and are capable of great loyalty.
   This type of person is ideal for third-party endorsements from ex-
perts who look and sound real. The Miracle-Gro campaign that dif-
ferentiates itself as the ‘‘choice of experts’’ is perfect for feelers. Nice
24   Whatever Happened to the Unique Selling Proposition?

people surrounded by beautiful flowers and talking about the won-
ders of Miracle-Gro is a perfect strategy.

Differentiating with Sensors
Sensors see things as they are and have great respect for facts. They
have an enormous capacity for detail and seldom make errors. They
are good at putting things in context.
   Hertz’s differentiating strategy of leadership (there’s Hertz and
not exactly) is a great program for the sensors, who instinctively
know that Hertz is indeed the number one choice in airport loca-
tions. (Twenty-five years of telling us they are number one doesn’t
hurt.) To them it’s just common sense that Hertz is the best.
   People often are a mixture of these functions. Intuitives and feel-
ers both tend to dislike too much detail. Thinkers and sensors work
with more information. But they all are trying to make a decision on
what to buy, one way or another.

You Can Differentiate Anything
Theodore Levitt, the Harvard marketing guru, wrote a book titled
The Marketing Imagination (New York: Free Press, 1986). He was
definitely on Rosser Reeves’s side when he stated in chapter 4 of his
book that you can differentiate anything.
   His point is that products must be augmented by offering custom-
ers more than they think they need or have come to expect. This
could be with additional services or support. General Electric does
this by advising customers on the nuances of doing business around
the globe. General Electric also added service capability so its cus-
tomers didn’t have to keep service people on staff.
   Otis Elevator uses remote diagnostics as a way to differentiate
itself. In high-traffic office buildings, where servicing elevators is a
major inconvenience to occupants and visitors alike, Otis uses its
remote diagnostics capabilities to predict possible service interrup-
tions. It sends employees to carry out preventive maintenance in
the evening, when traffic is light.
                                      You Can Differentiate Anything   25

   Oral-B created a powerful source of differentiation with a tooth-
brush that tells customers when they need a new one (a patented
blue dye in the center bristles).

Differentiating Commodities
Even the world of meats and produce has found ways to differentiate
itself and thus create that unique selling proposition. Their success-
ful strategies can be summed up in five ways:

  1. Identify. Ordinary bananas became better bananas by adding a
     Chiquita label to the fruit. Dole did the same for pineapple
     with the Dole label, as did the lettuce people by putting each
     head into a clear package. Of course, you then have to com-
     municate why people should look for these labels.
  2. Personify. The Green Giant character became the difference in
     a family of vegetables in many forms. Frank Perdue became the
     tough man behind the tender chicken.
  3. Create a new generic. The cantaloupe people wanted to differ-
     entiate a special, big cantaloupe. But rather than call them just
     plain ‘‘big,’’ they introduced a new category called Crenshaw
     melons. Tyson wanted to sell miniature chickens, which doesn’t
     sound very appetizing. So they introduced Cornish game hens.
  4. Change the name. Sometimes your original name doesn’t sound
     like it would be something you would want to put in your
     mouth. Like a Chinese gooseberry. By changing it to kiwi, the
     world suddenly had a new favorite fruit.
  5. Reposition the category. Pork was just pig for many years. All
     that did was conjure up mental pictures of little animals wal-
     lowing in the mud. Then they jumped on the chicken band-
     wagon and became ‘‘the other white meat.’’ A very good move
     when red meat became a perceptual problem.

  Where there’s a will, there’s a way to differentiate.
                         C H A P T E R

                                 4

    Reinventing the Unique
      Selling Proposition

R
         osser Reeves had the will to differentiate.
         But 40 years ago, the way to differentiate was usually based
         on a tangible difference between products. Usually it in-
cluded a benefit that could be dramatized by a comparison with
competitors.
   ‘‘It cleans your breath while it cleans your teeth,’’ said Colgate
dental cream. (Years later, Crest added decay-fighting ingredients
to toothpaste and preempted that unique selling proposition or
USP.)
   ‘‘Stops BO,’’ proclaimed Lifebuoy soap in the 1950s. Actually, all
soaps stop body odor, but Lifebuoy got there first and grabbed that
claim. (More on this point later.)
   ‘‘Our bottles are washed with live steam’’ was a point of differ-
entiation from legendary copywriter Claude Hopkins, who had

                                 27
28   Reinventing the Unique Selling Proposition

toured his client’s brewery. (Once again, every brewery was doing
the same thing. But he was the first to claim the high ground of
hygiene.)
   Simple science was on the side of many companies in those days.
Anacin, for instance, could tout its unique ‘‘combination of ingre-
dients’’ as superior to plain aspirin or aspirin with buffers. Physicians
could explain that the combination of Anacin’s particular ingre-
dients had different effects on the human body than aspirin alone.

What Happened?
Today it’s a lot tougher to hang onto a USP or a product difference
or benefit. As a result, most marketers have drifted toward other
concepts.
   Partly, that’s because of the torrent of new products. They cloud
the mind with conflicting claims and teeny points of difference.
(‘‘Now! Tartar control with the great taste of fresh mint gel.’’)
   Partly, it’s because the number one competitive response is usu-
ally me-tooism. Competing products are becoming more and more
alike. Technology enables competitors to tear apart, reverse engi-
neer, and knock off product features even before you have the
chance to establish your uniqueness.
   Partly, it’s because of speed. Think of a company like Intel,
which increases data storage and performance each year at astound-
ing rates. Think of the diaper business, where new products race to
market in as little as six months. Most companies don’t have time to
rest on their laurels.
   When you survive by reinventing yourself every other day, it’s
tough to differentiate on a product difference alone.

Is It Really ‘‘New?’’
In 1987, there were 14,254 new products introduced in the United
States, according to the reporting firm of Market Intelligence Serv-
ice Ltd.
                                              Is It Really Protected?   29

   By 1998, the number for that year had grown to 25,181.
   To put that number in context, it means 69 new products sur-
faced every day of the year. Or that every city, town, village, and
hamlet in America could host its very own new product. (‘‘Wel-
come to Buford City, home of Buttermilk shampoo.’’)
   But in new products, quantity doesn’t mean quality. The over-
whelming majority of this deluge of lotions and potions and widgets
aren’t breakthroughs of any kind. They’re just bells, whistles, and
tweaks.
   Michael Lasky is a patent lawyer who’s watched this new product
scene for 30 years. ‘‘Most new products are minutiae,’’ he says.
‘‘They are not true inventions, which is what a patent really is.
They are just insignificant, trivial advances. And that makes it
much easier for a competitor to come out with their own ‘flavor
beads’ or ‘triple edge’ or whatever.’’1
   So much for your special product feature.

Is It Really Protected?
Patent protection can be quite strong, assuming you have the
breadth and scope of a breakthrough invention. (Even some surgical
operations have been patented.) Or you can surround yourself with
enough new gizmos to keep competitors at bay.
   Consider the $4 billion diaper wars, where as many as 1,000 pat-
ents (and about as many lawyers) guard everything from the Velcro
fastener tabs to the amount of elastic around the legs. Believe it or
not, the diaper biz is one of the most heavily patented in the annals
of the Patent and Trademark Office.
   The two big rivals in diaper land, Procter & Gamble and
Kimberly-Clark, even agreed to stop suing each other and cross-
license a variety of disputed patents. Together, they already control
three-quarters of the diaper market. Now they can clobber their
much smaller competitors with royalty payments for special ‘‘cuffs’’
that stop those annoying diaper leaks.
30   Reinventing the Unique Selling Proposition

   So, Bunkie, do you feel lucky today? Are you ready to barge into
the battle for baby’s bottom with your new product? If so, then get
ready for one ugly rash when the big boys unload their patents and
lawyers on you.
   But here’s a pleasant surprise. This sort of predatory patenting
and gonzo lawyering is the exception, not the rule.
   ‘‘Throughout the consumer-product business,’’ observes the Wall
Street Journal, ‘‘manufacturers of lower-priced house brands rou-
tinely skate close to the edges of a patent as they attempt to copy
new ideas without stealing them outright.’’2 These are the knock-
offs, look-alikes, and taste-alikes.
   One British marketing professor puts it this way: ‘‘The last few
demanding years have drilled into us all the vital need to innovate
to gain a competitive edge. But when we really do steal a lead, we
find the advantage is only temporary. Why? Because our competi-
tors have been working to the same pressures, usually with similar
resources.’’3
   How do they do it? Powerful new computer technologies let them
dismantle your new idea, millimeter by millimeter, and then repli-
cate it.

Analyzing Them to Death
Sometimes the mania to analyze the competition can literally tear
them apart. The unique point of difference, if there ever was one,
never has a chance.
   Robert McMath is a former Colgate-Palmolive executive, now a
consultant. He likes to tell the story of what happened when a
shampoo called Wash & Comb hit test markets. It promised to
eliminate tangles. Competitors were extremely interested. Then
McMath swung into action.
   ‘‘My consulting firm alone purchased 3,000 bottles in the Atlanta
market,’’ he says. ‘‘As a result, Wash & Comb looked like a sure
winner. But real people weren’t buying it. Other marketers were. It
bombed when it rolled out nationally.’’4
                                      Improve, Upgrade, and Innovate   31

   The same thing happened when Hunt-Wesson, which owns pop-
corn prince Orville Redenbacher, went out to ‘‘study’’ a new brand
called Cracker Jack Extra Fresh popping corn. First, they cleaned
out the store shelves. Then they went directly to the Grand Union
warehouse to purchase by the case, again and again. (An executive
at the supermarket commented that they were just about the only
people buying the product.)
   It’s no surprise that Cracker Jack Extra Fresh flopped when it
went national. Hunt-Wesson stopped buying it.

It’s Not Impossible
We didn’t say product differentiation was impossible. We just said it
was difficult.
   Every few years, Gillette reinvents shaving. They did it with two-
bladed razors (Trac II), adjustable two-bladed razors (Atra), shock-
absorbent razors (Sensor), three-bladed razors (Mach 3), and now a
five-bladed razor (Fusion).
   On the surface, the Fusion is just a new product.
   Underneath, though, is the excruciating hard work and passion
of a company that regularly obsoletes its most recent best seller.
   The Mach 3 required an investment of $750 million before a sin-
gle new blade was sold. A thicket of 35 patents surrounds the prod-
uct, including ‘‘progressively aligned’’ blades, comfort edges for less
‘‘drag,’’ and an advanced ‘‘forward pivot’’ action. (Sounds more like
a Ferrari than a sharp stick to scrape off whiskers.)
   The result of all this invention and effort? A market share in wet
shaving that borders on antitrust. Now that’s differentiation.

Improve, Upgrade, and Innovate
Same company, same technique, different product.
  Oral-B toothbrushes hadn’t introduced a new toothbrush in the
27 years before Gillette acquired it.
32   Reinventing the Unique Selling Proposition

   Gillette put a team of 150 people into researching manual plaque
removal. The result was a stream of new products including a floss
made with a proprietary fiber and its top-of-the-line Advantage
toothbrush.
   If you’re thinking of the product feature route to differentiation,
you would be wise to study the Gillette model: Improve, upgrade,
and innovate.
   In other words, go big, or don’t bother going at all.
   What often happens is that companies take their eye off their
difference. Volvo has pioneered the concept of safe cars as their
product difference. They’ve introduced a number of safety ideas
such as modular construction, side-door air bags, and running lights.
But in recent years, they were late with the safety feature of front-
wheel drive and four-wheel drive.
   Now, while the Japanese are beginning to talk about new elec-
tronic safety devices, Volvo is into sporty convertibles and coupes
that don’t look safe. They are taking their eye off what has made
them different.

Hot Chicken and Cool Music
Spicy chicken is a hot new product. Popeyes Chicken serves up
Cajun-style fried chicken that is zesty, to say the least. ‘‘We’re out
to save America from bland chicken,’’ say their TV commercials.
   Popeyes’ ad budget is puny compared to its giant competitor, the
Colonel.
   But its product feature is a red-hot point of difference—enough
to drive them past Church’s Chicken and Chick-Fil-A into the sec-
ond sales slot in chicken restaurants behind KFC.
   The Bose Wave radio is another big idea. ‘‘It seems small,’’ says
the advertising, ‘‘until you turn it on.’’
   It’s a radio unlike any other. Smaller than a breadbox, it produces
rich, room-filling sound. How? The sound travels through a patented
seven-foot acoustic waveguide speaker, folded inside the device. This
                                                   Ted Levitt’s Warning   33

nifty product brought Bose, already regarded as one of the most re-
spected names in the sound business, a ‘‘Best of What’s New’’ award
from Popular Science. Sales are brisk, even at $349 a pop.

Beyond Product and Benefit
Will competitors get their arms around spicy chicken and cool
sounds? Most likely, if you accept the conclusion of three British
professors. Writing in the Journal of Advertising Research, they argue:

  Me-tooism remains the dominant force in competition. Being com-
  petitive means cashing in on one’s competitors’ successes. Such imi-
  tation is not just restricted to minor product developments (baking
  soda in toothpaste or guaranteed-money-back long-term invest-
  ments), but applies even more to the major product characteristics
  (all mainstream cars have to be speedy, safe, fairly economical, etc.).5

  As you can see, inventing and then hanging on to a truly differ-
ent product is hard work. But it can be done.

Ted Levitt’s Warning
Returning to one of the fathers of marketing, Harvard’s Ted Levitt
had some very strong things to say on this subject in his 1991 book
titled Thinking About Management:

  Differentiation is one of the most important strategic and tactical
  activities in which companies must constantly engage. It is not dis-
  cretionary. And everything can be differentiated, even so-called
  ‘‘commodities’’ such as cement, copper, wheat, money, air cargo, ma-
  rine insurance.

   There is no such thing as a commodity, only people who act and
think like commodities. Everything can be differentiated, as just ob-
served, and usually is. Think only of soap, beer, investment bank-
ing, credit cards, steel warehousing, temporary help services,
34   Reinventing the Unique Selling Proposition

education. There is no reason for any company to get stuck in the
commodity trap, forever confined to competing totally on price
alone. Historically, companies that have taken and stayed resolutely
on the commodity path, even when they have driven their costs
deeply down, have become extinct.
   In the chapters ahead, we explore a dozen ways to do it, and we
broaden the field to consider services as well as products.
   But first, a few yellow caution flags.
   There are some ideas that look appealing, but will rarely differ-
entiate you.
                        C H A P T E R

                                 5

      Quality and Customer
      Orientation Are Rarely
       Differentiating Ideas

I
     f you live or work in New Jersey, you have your choice of hun-
     dreds of banks. Megabanks such as Chase, midsize players such
     as Commerce, or community banks such as Columbia Savings.
How do consumers choose a place to plunk down their assets?
   Into this fray and onto the radio, came the voice of Bob Cox,
president of $20 billion Summit Bank. Here is his pitch:

   We’re always looking for better ways to serve you.
   No customer is too small to listen to.

                                35
36   Quality and Customer Orientation Are Rarely Differentiating Ideas

   No employee is too big to listen.
   We’re reaching higher.

   Sorry, Bob, but these ideas are no salvation in a hypercompeti-
tive world. Your competitors have read the same books and taken
the same courses.
   For the customers of the Summit Banks of the world, reasonable
quality and service are an expectation, not a tiebreaker.
   In other words, quality is a given these days, not a difference.
Knowing and loving your customer is a given, not a difference. It’s
not surprising that Summit was acquired and the name has
vanished.

The War on Quality
Yes, the 1990s witnessed a war on quality. Business leaders de-
manded tools and techniques to measure it. An army of gurus and
academics marched forth with books and endless diatribes on how
to define, predict, and ensure this elusive creature called quality.
   On they came, a numbing maze of acronyms and buzzwords: the
Seven Old Tools, the Seven New Tools, TQM, SPC, QFD, CQL,
and just about any other combination of three letters you could
string together.
   In 1993, alone, there were 422 books in print with ‘‘Quality’’ in
their title. Today, there are half as many. (We must have won the
war.)
   Survey after survey today acknowledges that consumers see qual-
ity improvements all around them. Cars that are better made. Small
appliances that last longer. Computers with instruction manuals in
simple English.
   The editorial director at polling firm Roper Starch Worldwide
explains it this way: ‘‘All brands have to work harder to get ahead
today. They keep upping the ante to meet consumers’ needs. The
consumer is still king. And it doesn’t look like the equation is going
                                    The War for Customer Satisfaction   37

to change anytime soon. Consumers have not slacked off in their
demands as the economy has improved. If anything, they’ve grown
more demanding.’’1

Who Wins with Quality?
Who among us doesn’t appreciate a better-made product, or a zero-
defects guarantee?
   But does quality pay? Ah, the jury is still out on that one.
   A Gallup survey done for the American Society for Quality Con-
trol found that only 28 percent of executives interviewed say they
achieved significant results from their quality initiatives. (‘‘Signifi-
cant’’ is defined as increasing profitability or market share.)
   A similar study done by the British Department of Trade and In-
dustry revealed that in 86 percent of the firms examined, the design
and implementation of advanced manufacturing systems failed to
realize any improvements in quality, flexibility, or due-date per-
formance. Even worse, 43 percent of these companies did not im-
prove their overall competitive position.
   But just try lowering your quality and competing in today’s world.
Good luck. The customer’s expectation isn’t going away, no matter
how much it costs you to keep pace.

The War for Customer Satisfaction
If quality were a war, then the assault on the customer would be
Armageddon.
   A landmark study published in Harvard Business Review argued
that companies could improve profits by at least 25 percent just by
reducing customer defections by 5 percent. Whoa, Nellie. You
could hear the alarm bells going off in boardrooms across the land.
   Seminars, books, and counselors told us 1,001 ways to dazzle,
love, partner with, and just plain hang on to that person called a
customer.
38   Quality and Customer Orientation Are Rarely Differentiating Ideas

   We were told the customer is a collaborator. The customer is the
CEO. The customer is king. The customer is a butterfly. (Don’t
even ask.)
   Customer feedback meant every complaint was a gift. Better
after-marketing would keep a customer for life. Learn how to man-
age in total customer time.
   It was enough to drive you into the not-for-profit world.
   As the century rolled over, Marketing Management concluded,
‘‘Practically every company today is geared up to satisfy its custom-
ers. ‘We do whatever it takes’ is the everyday refrain.’’2
   These are the exceptions, of course. Like the nation’s airlines,
flying as high as the stock market with record numbers of passen-
gers. It’s not boom times for their passengers, however. Complaints
are mounting over overbooking, scant leg room, mishandled bag-
gage, incomplete or misleading information about delayed flights,
and frustration with frequent flier miles that are easy to accumulate
but next to impossible to use.

It Can Happen with Bicycles
Ride over to Zane’s Cycles, the largest single-location bicycle dealer
in the state of Connecticut, to see how customer orientation can
succeed. In a hotly competitive business, Chris Zane’s sales are
growing 25 percent a year.
   How does Zane’s differentiate? The answer lies in his ‘‘lifetime
dealer warranty.’’ Every bicycle purchased from Zane’s Cycles is
covered by a guarantee that if a bike ever fails or needs mainte-
nance, he does whatever it takes to get the customer back on the
road, for free. His warranty says:

  1. Zane’s will service and maintain any bicycle purchased from
     Zane’s for the lifetime of that bicycle.
  2. Zane’s extends the bicycle manufacturer’s warranty, if needed,
     to lifetime on defects and workmanship.
                                                  Love Those Miles   39

  3. Zane’s will extend the manufacturer’s guarantee on accessories
     or parts purchased at Zane’s to lifetime on defects and
     workmanship.

   You may think Chris has slipped his sprockets. After all, serious
bike riders pile on the miles, and there is sure to be major wear and
tear on the bike. His competitors definitely thought he was crazy.
   But there is method in his madness. His mechanics tend to prop-
erly assemble each new bike the first time they handle it because
they know they’re going to service the bike for free as long as the
customer owns it.
   More importantly, the lifetime guarantee keeps the best custom-
ers coming back. They’re the biking enthusiasts who ride often
enough to need periodic service. That helps business because each
service visit is a chance for those best customers to check out all the
shiny new equipment in his shop.
   The bottom line for Zane’s Cycle is that his customers know
what makes him different and reward him with loyalty.

Love Those Miles
In 1983, American Airlines introduced its AAdvantage program.
Back then, the airline actually believed mileage rewards would:

   Encourage brand loyalty.
   Bring in the competition’s customers who wanted better deals.
   Differentiate American from United and everyone else.

   AAdvantage now boasts over 30 million members worldwide, in-
cluding half a million in Brazil alone. What management did not
anticipate was the stampede by competitors to respond in kind, and
the virtual impossibility of stopping such a program once under way.
   Today everybody gives away miles. Let’s say you fly a lot around
the Hawaiian Islands. Your miles will get you an Aloha Pass on
40   Quality and Customer Orientation Are Rarely Differentiating Ideas

Aloha Airlines. Flying to Bangkok on business? Thai Airways has
its Royal Orchid program.
    Wait a minute. Airlines are supposed to sell tickets, not give
them away. Frequent flier programs, supposedly a customer service
bonanza, have had the unwanted effects of:

   Reducing demand for some paid tickets.
   Limiting available seats for popular vacation spots like Hawaii.
   Irritating good customers who can’t cash in their miles.

   Here is the reluctant conclusion of Leonard Berry, professor of
marketing and director of retailing studies at Texas A&M Univer-
sity: ‘‘What they have not done is differentiate the sponsoring air-
lines for the frequent travelers to the degree that justifies the costs
and drawbacks. The frequent traveler concept, essentially pricing
benefits for better customers, is simply too easily imitated.’’3

The Rising Tide
A more savvy and more demanding consumer raises the level for
every marketer.
   Now the local bagel shop has a frequent nosher program. (Half a
dozen sesame bagels? Here, let me punch your card.)
   An obscure CD ordered from an obscure Internet address comes
with a money-back guarantee. (And they honor it.)
   A California HMO publishes a report card that rates hundreds of
physician groups according to their clinical outcomes and patient
satisfaction. (Those in the top 10 percent are starred as ‘‘best
practices.’’)
   Is this a great time to be a consumer, or what?
   Just ask a major bank in Seattle, which found its retail customers
had become much less tolerant of delays in answering complaints or
resolving disputes. Some in-depth interviews revealed the reason:
Nordstrom. The hometown department store chain, with its fa-
mously obsessive level of customer service, had changed the
                                      Satisfaction versus Commitment   41

mindset of bank customers as well. Imagine you’re the bank. What
do you tell your customers? ‘‘Oh, that’s how Nordstrom does it. Re-
member, we’re just a bank.’’
   If the customer already expects more, then knock-your-socks-off
service doesn’t get you into the end-zone. It just keeps you in the
game.
   And by the way, all your competitors are trying to make love to
your customers, too.

The Myth
Even scoring high on the vaunted Malcolm Baldrige National
Quality Award criteria, or actually winning a Baldrige award, is it-
self no guarantee of success. Baldrige award winners have seen their
stock prices fluctuate, experienced product development delays, and
lost money on new ventures.
   The great myth of marketing in the 1990s was that ‘‘serving the
customer’’ was the name of the game.
   Many marketing people live in a dream world. They believe in
the fantasy of the virgin market. This is the belief that marketing is
a two-player game involving just the company and the customer. In
this fantasy, a company develops a product or service designed to
appeal to customer needs, and then uses marketing to harvest the
crop.
   But there are no virgin markets. The reality of marketing is that a
market consists of consumers strongly or weakly held by a range of
competitors. A marketing campaign, therefore, consists of holding
on to your customers while at the same time attempting to take cus-
tomers away from your competitors.
   That’s what differentiation can do. It’s not just about knowing
your customer. It’s about your customer knowing about you.

Satisfaction versus Commitment
One other point: Customer satisfaction is not the same as customer
commitment.
42   Quality and Customer Orientation Are Rarely Differentiating Ideas

  Research from Quality Institute International Inc. shows that:
   More than 40 percent of customers who claimed to be satisfied
     switched suppliers without looking back. (So many choices, so
     little time.)
   Eighty-nine percent of people who owned cars from a certain
     manufacturer said they were very satisfied, and 67 percent said
     they intended to purchase another car from that manufacturer.
   But fewer than 20 percent actually did so.

All those lovable customers you’ve been busy courting? They can
and will double-cross you.
   Consider what’s happening to Nordstrom, the king of service. In
an April 19, 1999, BusinessWeek article, the headline reads ‘‘Great
Service Wasn’t Enough.’’ The article talked about Nordstrom’s
weak sales growth, disappointing profits, and volatile stock perform-
ance. It blamed overexpansion.
   But William E. Nordstrom put it this way: ‘‘We have not been
able to keep up with the changing needs of the customers.’’
   Bill, if you don’t keep up you’ll become just another department
store.

Michael Porter Gets ‘‘On Board’’
He may be the most famous Harvard Business School professor of all
time, and he’s had lots to say over the years about differentiation.
   In a collection of essays, titled On Competition, Michael Porter
finally puts quality and customer passion in their place. He does it
by drawing a line between operational effectiveness and strategic
positioning.
   Operational effectiveness means simply performing better the
same activities your competitors perform. This can be a source of
short-run competitive advantage, but in the long run it’s nowhere
near sufficient.
                                                      It Can Happen   43

   As companies race to benchmark each other, Porter observes,
companies become more alike.
   Instead, he says, companies need to position themselves differ-
ently from their competition. That means finding a point of differ-
entiation unique (and meaningful) in their industry.
   ‘‘Operational effectiveness means you’re running the same race
faster,’’ Porter says. ‘‘But strategy is choosing to run a different race
because it’s the one you’ve set yourself up to win.’’4
   Professor Porter has seen the light.

It Can Happen
At the beginning of this chapter, we said that quality and customer
orientation are rarely a way to differentiate yourself.
   Midwest Express Airlines was such a ‘‘rarely.’’
   They are a very successful regional airline that truly made service
and customer orientation their differentiator.
   They have free coffee and newspapers at the gates. Steak and
shrimp dinners. Chocolate chip cookies. Friendly flight attendants.
No jammed seating. And best of all, it’s all for basic coach fare. Now
for the trick: They focus on filling their seats with corporate commut-
ers instead of bargain-hunting, book-in-advance leisure travelers.

But Costs Can Rise
For a while, Midwest was very successful with their customer orien-
tation. But rising fuel costs, old airplanes, and expansion started to
put them into a cost squeeze. Being customer oriented can be ex-
pensive and if you can’t get more money for your service, things can
get very uncomfortable. Midwest Express has been struggling in re-
cent years.
   Consider our friends at Lexus or BMW. They have very expen-
sive service programs but these are very expensive cars that can af-
ford to cover those extra costs.
   So the moral about service as a differentiator: You can indeed use
this as a strategy. But only if you can afford it.
                           C H A P T E R

                                    6

           Creativity Is Not a
           Differentiating Idea

I
      n his book Reality in Advertising, Rosser Reeves railed against
      what he saw as puffery and ineffectual advertising. Concepts
      like ‘‘rich with true caramel flavors,’’ ‘‘the best taste ever,’’ and
‘‘It’s incredibly smooth’’ incurred his verbal wrath.
    While not up to his standards of selling, at least they were an
attempt to sell. One wonders how he would have reacted to today’s
advertising that doesn’t even make the attempt. Consider these
concepts plucked from a few magazines: ‘‘Start something.’’ ‘‘Wel-
come aboard. Really.’’ ‘‘Changing the world with great care.’’ ‘‘Peo-
ple drive us.’’ ‘‘Expanding possibilities.’’

                                   45
46   Creativity Is Not a Differentiating Idea

The Creativity Trap
Puffery has been replaced with vagueness. A large amount of today’s
advertising has gotten so creative or entertaining that it’s some-
times hard to tell what companies are even advertising.
   Consider this full-page advertisement that once ran from
J.P. Morgan, a leading global financial advisor, underwriter, and
lender.
   The advertisement has no headline, just a human face staring out
and a block of copy that reads: ‘‘I have never settled for better when
best was within reach. I have zero interest in okay. I have never
mistaken listening for understanding. I have frustrated cynics. I
have been difficult when necessary. I have been easy when faced
with perfection. I have lit fires. I work for J.P. Morgan.’’

What Made J.P. Morgan Different?
This is a nice set of thoughts and a nice piece of prose. But what in
the world is J.P. Morgan trying to sell the readers of Fortune maga-
zine? That they are a company that publishes insightful messages
from employees? That their people try harder? Beats us. Besides,
we’re not giving our money to some unknown employee, we’re giv-
ing it to a large, successful organization.
   What made J.P. Morgan different is anything but vague. It was
their 150-year-old heritage of serving the world’s most prominent
corporations, governments, and wealthy families. J.P. Morgan
helped structure and finance General Electric and AT&T in their
infancy. It loaned money to the French and the British during two
world wars. It propped up Mexico with $2.6 billion in bonds and the
Russian Federation with the same amount.
   What they should have run is a program that presented their
unique capabilities in the context of their long heritage: ‘‘Generat-
ing wealth for 150 years.’’ (Starting with old J.P. Morgan himself.)
   Instead, they cashed in their heritage and sold themselves to
Chase. A sad ending to an amazing history.
                                            The ‘‘Creativity’’ Defense   47

An Industry Debate
This vagueness has gotten so bad that Advertising Age reported the
fact that some company CEOs are receiving letters from stockhold-
ers about shareholder equity being wasted by ‘‘commercials that ap-
peared utterly removed from the real world task of attempting to
convince a viewer to buy the product.’’1
   Rance Crain, the editor-in-chief of Advertising Age, has been on a
crusade against vague, ineffectual advertising that is being run
under the guise of being creative. His point, and it’s a good one, is
that poor work costs advertising the CEO support that it needs.
   It used to be that a CEO would wonder which half of his advertis-
ing budget was being wasted. Now he is beginning to wonder if it’s
the whole budget.
   It’s no wonder that a survey commissioned by the American Ad-
vertising Federation showed lukewarm support for advertising as a
tool to help companies grow.
   When executives were asked whether they were satisfied with
their companies’ advertising efforts, just 6.8 percent replied they
were very satisfied.

The ‘‘Creativity’’ Defense
What’s driving the advertising industry toward a cliff is the belief of
many that advertising is losing its effectiveness in an age of over
communication and cynicism.
   These advocates of artful, poetic advertising point to a time in
the 1960s when advertising underwent a big change. It was a time
when the element of ‘‘likeability’’ became important. Before that,
you told somebody that this thing would cure a headache and this
thing would go fast or get good mileage. It was about logic and sell-
ing. Their view is that if it sells too hard, the message not only won’t
be liked, it will be ignored.
   That’s why they strive to run advertising that’s emotional or pro-
vocative or funny or cool—advertising that forms a ‘‘bond’’ with the
consumer.
48   Creativity Is Not a Differentiating Idea

   When Shelly Lazarus, chairman and CEO of Ogilvy & Mather
Worldwide, was the chairwoman of the American Association of
Advertising Agencies, she urged the members at one meeting to
celebrate the unconventional and the unexpected—the better to
meet competition from the likes of management consultants who
are threatening to usurp the traditional role agencies play in mar-
keting communications.
   ‘‘My management consultant friends sometimes seem almost of-
fended by the irrational and illogical,’’ Lazarus said. ‘‘Have you no-
ticed that?’’
   By contrast, she asserted, ‘‘we thrive on that,’’ because ‘‘consum-
ers are often irrational and illogical,’’ influenced by ‘‘intangible
emotional values that often transcend logic.’’2

The Ghost of Bill Bernbach
If you challenge this thinking, many will evoke the ghost of Bill
Bernbach, a very famous ad man who started the likeable advertis-
ing revolution in the 1960s.
   They point to his work as being the beginning of the creative
revolution. Unfortunately, as with most revolutions, it went very
wrong as the years rolled on.
   Bill Bernbach and Rosser Reeves weren’t really very far apart in
their efforts. It’s just that their style was different. Bernbach took
powerful selling ideas and simply presented them in everyday lan-
guage that didn’t take the product too seriously. He simply intro-
duced more reality into advertising.

Creative Differentiation
If you look at Bill Bernbach’s work today, you’ll find that it was bril-
liant strategy, simply expressed, and very logical.
    ‘‘Think small’’ for Volkswagen was a wonderful way to differenti-
ate the Beetle from the large, heavily chromed patrol boats that
Detroit was offering the public.
                                       The Ghost of Mean Joe Greene   49

   ‘‘Because we’re only number two in rent-a-cars, we try harder’’ for
Avis was an honest way to differentiate itself from Hertz and the
other rent-a-cars all trying to put you in the driver’s seat.
   ‘‘You don’t have to be Jewish to enjoy Levy’s Jewish rye bread’’
was a straightforward way to reposition this rye bread as a great
bread for everyone. (Its Jewishness made it different. He had to
make this difference more attractive to those who weren’t Jewish.)
   Yes, this is an age where advertising is not as effective as it once
was. Yes, this is an age where there are too many products chasing
the same consumers. But if Bernbach were still plying his trade, he
would be writing advertising that is warm, human, and above all,
right-on strategy.

The Ghost of Mean Joe Greene
The one idea that you hear a great deal about today is using emo-
tion to be different. Program after program has emotional scenes of
people kissing people or people kissing babies or people being peo-
ple. The product plays a minor role in these tableaux of life.
   If you question that approach, many will point to the very famous
Coca-Cola commercial that featured the Pittsburgh Steelers line-
man Mean Joe Greene and a little seven-year-old who shared a
Coke with him after the game. It was a heart-tugging commercial
that was loved by all. Unfortunately, while it made great viewing, it
didn’t sell any Coca-Cola. (At the time, Pepsi’s differentiating idea
as the ‘‘choice of the new generation’’ was in high gear.)
   But that’s a detail that was quickly passed over by the emotion
lovers in the business. So let’s address this issue, but on a scientific
basis (not on an emotional basis).

Emotion and Choice
To get to the bottom of this argument, we went to the world of
psychology to determine how emotion and reason figure in our abil-
ity to make choices.
50   Creativity Is Not a Differentiating Idea

   There’s a great deal of complex and heavy material on the sub-
ject of why, of all creatures on earth, humans are the most emotion-
al. Richard and Bernice Lazarus, two professors of psychology at the
University of California, caught our eye. In a book titled Passion and
Reason (New York: Oxford University Press, 1994), they explode
many myths about emotions. One is that emotions are irrational
and do not depend on thinking and reasoning. Their point: Emo-
tion and intelligence go hand in hand. (So much for Shelly
Lazarus.)
   Another important point they make is that emotions always de-
pend substantially on reason. Their point: Emotion depends on an
appraisal of personal meaning. Without meaning, without appraisal,
there is no emotion.
   This means that if an advertisement presents emotion and leaves
out a reason to buy, all that emotion is a waste of money. There will
be no appraisal. (So much for Mean Joe Greene.)
   Another psychologist, Dr. Carol Moog, put it very well: ‘‘Strictly
emotional behavior, broadly speaking, occurs in very young chil-
dren or severely cognitively impaired adults. Realistically assessed,
rationally considered attributes, to a greater or lesser degree, con-
tributes to all choices, and to all points of differentiation, regardless
of the emotional pull, loyalty, or arousal properties of products.’’3
   In other words, you have to give a person a reason to buy your
product.
   We rest our case.

Sergio Gets Religion
Sergio Zyman is the former marketing guru of Coca-Cola who is
now a consultant to companies in search of a strategy. He suddenly
sounds amazingly like us. He says company marketing should be
more concerned about selling the product than jingles or signing up
celebrities.
   For those of you who are not familiar with his track record, he was
involved with New Coke, or what we call the Edsel from Atlanta.
                                               Information, Not Ads   51

    He was around when Coke’s ultimate differentiating idea, ‘‘the
real thing,’’ was abandoned for a number of meaningless slogans.
    He was on the scene when Coke went off to Hollywood to get
some advertising that was the ultimate in creative nonselling unless
you consider polar bears drinking Coke a differentiating idea. (The
cola that polar bears prefer.)
    He says that ‘‘advertising is supposed to communicate the bene-
fits and differences of a brand.’’ (Attaboy, Sergio.) And that market-
ing ‘‘is a discipline, a science that positions your product in relative
terms to your competition.’’ (Absolutely.)
    Then he has the chutzpah to say that agencies ‘‘peddle the
thought that advertising is an art, when it’s not.’’4 (How come you
bought a lot of that ‘‘art’’ for Coke?)
    Well, we’re happy to see that Sergio has had a late-life conversion.
It’s too bad Sergio’s realization didn’t come sooner, because it would
have saved Coke a bundle of money on those bad decisions in his
earlier life.

Information, Not Ads
While Sergio now gets it, many advertising people fail to under-
stand that their job is to present important information about a
product and why a person should buy it. And that information
shouldn’t look too much like an ad.
   Minds are limited as to how much information they will take in
and store (more in Chapter 10).
   One way of overcoming the mind’s natural stinginess when it
comes to accepting new information is to work hard at presenting
your message as important news.
   Too many advertisements try to entertain or be clever. In so
doing they often overlook the news factor in their story.
   The Starch research people can demonstrate that headlines that
contain news score better in readership than those that don’t. Un-
fortunately, most creative people see this kind of thinking as old
52   Creativity Is Not a Differentiating Idea

news. What they should be focused on is the need to dramatize that
selling message or news.
    If people think you’ve got an important message to convey, gen-
erally they’ll open their eyes or ears long enough to absorb what
you’ve got to say.
    In the coming chapters, we outline many different ways you can
differentiate a product or company. In each case, the method pre-
sented represents important news about a product. Whether it’s an
attribute, leadership, heritage, preference, or any other tried-and-
true approach, they all represent important information that should
be helpful in dealing with that problem of choice.
    The trick is not to bury that information in what some call
‘‘creativity.’’

Difference, Not Slogans
Advertising has become the land of slogans. If you doubt this, here’s
a 60-second quiz. See if you can identify the advertisers:
   ‘‘Your future made easier.’’
   ‘‘Yes you can.’’
   ‘‘Way of light.’’
   ‘‘Uncommon wisdom.’’
   ‘‘Shift.’’
   Here are the answers in order: ING, Sprint, Suzuki, Wachovia,
and Nissan.
   The underlying problem is that these slogans do not help or pro-
duce a reason to buy a certain product over another. This means
that the advertising isn’t very effective. This in turn causes market-
ers to lose faith in advertising. The bottom line: Meaningless slo-
gans are like a virus that is undermining the world of marketing.
Unless it’s stopped, we are watching category after category become
commodities.
   The trick is also to recognize the difference between a slogan and
a point of difference. To better understand this, let’s start with one
                                             Difference, Not Slogans   53

of marketing’s most famous slogans. It’s Nike’s ‘‘Just do it.’’ Cute,
yes. Memorable, yes. But a difference? No. If you study Nike, you’ll
discover they have at least 4,000 big time athletes under contract.
They had Michael Jordan. They have Lebron James. They have
Tiger Woods. They have Roger Federer. They have the Dallas
Cowboys.
   Pick a sport and you’ll find a little swoosh somewhere on a serious
player. This clearly points to what their difference truly is: ‘‘What
the world’s best athletes wear.’’ And what do most people want to
wear? You guessed it. It’s what the big boys and girls wear.
   Nokia, when they are selling cell phones, talks about ‘‘Connect-
ing people.’’ What else are they connecting? Animals? If you study
Nokia, you’ll discover that they have clawed their way to the top of
the hill. They are the clear global leader. This point of difference is
simply, ‘‘The world’s No. 1 cell phone.’’ And what do most people
want to buy? You guessed it: It’s what other people buy.
   That same idea would play out for McDonald’s who could easily
claim, ‘‘The world’s favorite place to eat.’’ That’s a lot better than
their meaningless slogan, ‘‘I’m lovin’ it.’’ (There’s a lot more on
leadership in Chapter 13.)
                          C H A P T E R

                                  7

           Price Is Rarely a
          Differentiating Idea

P
       rice is often the enemy of differentiation. By definition, being
       different should be worth something. It’s the reason that sup-
       ports the case for paying a little more—or at least the same—
for a product or service.
   But when price becomes the focus of a message or a company’s
marketing activities, you are beginning to undermine your chances
to be perceived as being unique. What you’re doing is making price
the main consideration for picking you over your competition.
That’s not a healthy way to go.
   Few companies find happiness with this approach for the simple
reason that every one of your competitors has access to a pencil.
And with it, they can mark down their prices any time they want.
There goes your advantage.

                                  55
56   Price Is Rarely a Differentiating Idea

  As Michael Porter says, cutting prices is usually insanity if the
competition can go as low as you can.

The Case of Cheaper Carrots
To support Porter’s premise, we point you to a start-up company
that came up with a unique packaging system for baby carrots. It
was one that produced a decided price advantage over the two big
suppliers already in the business.
   To get on the supermarket shelves, they entered the market not
with better carrots but with a better price. Instantly the two big sup-
pliers matched the upstart’s price. This only forced the new com-
pany to go lower, which once again was matched by the established
brands.
   When a board member asked the management of this start-up to
predict what would happen, the management predicted that the
two big companies would not continue to reduce their prices be-
cause it was ‘‘irrational.’’ They were losing money because of their
older packaging technology.
   The board member called us about this prediction. We advised
that it was perfectly rational. Why would the two companies that
dominated the market make it easy for a new company with a man-
ufacturing price advantage to get into the market? They were quite
happy with things the way they were.
   At the next board meeting, the start-up company management
was encouraged to sell their new manufacturing system to one of
the established brands. Which they did for a nice profit.
   Everyone was happy and another low-price strategy bit the dust.

Building a Price Advantage
We did not say that a price strategy as a differentiator was impossi-
ble, only difficult.
                                                The Wal-Mart Success   57

   Southwest Airlines has used low price to differentiate itself.
But it has done so by, in CEO Herb Kelleher’s words, ‘‘being
different.’’
   By using one kind of airplane, they saved on training and
maintenance costs. By offering no advanced seats, they avoided
expensive reservation systems. By offering no food, they elimi-
nated expense and time. By avoiding expensive hub airports
and using less expensive smaller airports, they avoided high gate
charges.
   By being different, Southwest has been able to construct a system
with the lowest cost per air mile than any other airline. Unfortu-
nately, this did turn them into a bit of a cattle car. But to offset this,
they work very hard at making the trip more fun. (The attendants
do stand-up comedy.)
   They have differentiated themselves as the low-fare airline. And
they have become big enough that they can’t be forced out of a mar-
ket by a bigger airline lowering their prices. Many airlines have
tried to imitate Southwest, and most have failed.

The Wal-Mart Success
One could say that ‘‘everyday low prices’’ has worked for Wal-Mart
in the mass-merchandising business. As with Southwest Airlines,
they have been able to make low price a meaningful differentiating
idea. But consider how they got there.
   First, they began their efforts in America’s smaller population
counties, where their competition was the small mom-and-pop gen-
eral merchandise stores. That was like the German war machine
running through the Balkans. Very little resistance.
   Then they began to build their technology base along with their
new store openings. As their volume grew, they added ‘‘supplier
muscle’’ to their weapons. While the going has been tougher in
areas where Kmart, Target, and Costco also reside, they now indeed
have that structural cost advantage to support their claim.
58   Price Is Rarely a Differentiating Idea

Dell’s Approach
Dell Computer has certainly used price as a weapon to carve out a
sizeable piece of the computer business. With over $18 billion in
sales, it has challenged Compaq for leadership in personal computer
(PC) sales.
    Its unique approach was to avoid retailers and go direct to users
with a lower price proposition. They attacked IBM and Compaq
with comparative ads featuring side-by-side photos of computers.
Copy under a Dell PC: ‘‘The lap of luxury’’ with a $3,899 price tag
on the screen. Under a Compaq model: ‘‘The lap of lunacy’’ with a
$7,699 price.
    Compaq sued but wouldn’t give up its expensive distribution sys-
tem. The result was more and more market share headed toward
Dell.
    Ironically, while price was the initial weapon, Dell’s business has
changed greatly. It is far less reliant on product-and-price ads. To-
day much of Dell’s business comes from relationships with large cor-
porate customers who place orders through dedicated Dell reps and
through customized Web commerce sites that Dell offers corporate
buyers. Unfortunately, Hewlett-Packard bought Compaq and has
made a comeback, knocking Dell off its pedestal. Getting to the top
is sometimes easier than staying there.

Charles Schwab’s Approach
So it is with Charles Schwab, the company that was the first
discount broker. It was their price approach that broke the
hammerlock that the big full-service brokers had on the market.
But this only gave way to an army of other discount brokers,
who were more recently followed by an army of yet cheaper
brokers on the Internet.
   Like Dell, Charles Schwab has moved to the high ground with
more and more service. While they still are about discounts, if you
look at their advertising, Charles Schwab looks more and more like
                                              Getting around Price   59

Merrill Lynch than Merrill Lynch, the behemoth of costly full-
service, looks like Merrill Lynch.
   The moral of both Dell and Charles Schwab is that you can start
with price but without a structural advantage you can’t finish with
price. You’ve got to move up the food chain.

Getting around Price
Market leaders will always be attacked on price. It appears to be al-
most a law of nature. So what do you do? Do you have to match all
their moves that are made against you?
   Here are some tried-and-true methods of getting around a price
attack:

  1. Do something special. The leader can go to its biggest customers
     and offer something special. Nike went to Foot Locker with
     Tuned Air, a $130 running shoe that they make exclusively
     for the big shoe retailer. So far so good. Foot Locker has or-
     dered more than a million pairs and expects to sell $200 mil-
     lion worth. That’s comparable to what it did with the best-
     selling Air Jordans.
  2. Cause some confusion. In some industries, pricing can be quite
     complicated. Such is the case with telephone rates. Some
     years ago, MCI launched their Friends & Families discount
     program. The deal was discounts on those calls you made to
     your friends and families as well as to those that were made to
     you. All you had to do was sign up with the names and phone
     numbers of those on your list. AT&T ignored this for a while,
     but MCI’s market share started to climb. Eventually, AT&T
     came down off their mountain and introduced ‘‘MCI math.’’
     This aggressive advertising program challenged those MCI
     rates as not being very much when you got past the small print.
     (Their 20 percent discount shrunk to about 6 percent, which
     worked out to pennies on a phone call.) As the arguments
60   Price Is Rarely a Differentiating Idea

     raged, all that really happened was that the market became
     confused about what was a real discount and what wasn’t. Oth-
     er discounts from Sprint and a new breed of telephone dis-
     counters only added to the confusion. MCI’s market share
     progress was halted. Who wins when the market is confused?
     You guessed it: the leader. People just figured, ‘‘Why bother?
     Let’s stay with AT&T.’’
  3. Shift the argument. Another good strategy in a pricing battle is
     to introduce the concept of total cost as opposed to initial
     cost. In some categories, the costs you incur after you buy a
     product can be substantial. If your product performs better
     after the purchase, you might be able to build a cost-for-cost
     ownership versus cost-of-purchase argument. A variation on
     this is the concept of longevity. An expensive product, such as
     a Mercedes, can have a high price but it will last far longer
     than your average car. That’s a nice rationale to get customers
     over what could be a bad case of sticker shock. A similar strat-
     egy can be used to sell expensive beds such as Duxiana, which
     go for $3,000 or more. The concept: You spend a lot more time
     in your bed than in your expensive car. In fact, you spend
     about 40 percent of your life in bed. So why scrimp?

Some Words about Promotions
Finally, do price promotions do much for a brand? Some extensive
international work has shown that sales generally go back to where
they were once a short-term price promotion is over. The promo-
tion lasts while it lasts. This has long been suspected but only re-
cently systematically tested. The hope has often lingered with
management that there might be a positive aftereffect, at least in
their case.
   It is now known that this is not so, and why: A promotion is tak-
en up virtually only by the brand’s long-term or ‘‘loyal’’ customers.
The evidence shows that people seldom buy a strange brand just
                                      Some Words about Promotions   61

because its price is cut. They simply avoid paying more than they
have to when one of their customary and familiar brands is tempo-
rarily on sale.
   This is why there are no aftereffects on sales: A promoted brand
does not hang on to any new customers who might have first bought
it during the sales blip, because there were virtually no such ‘‘new
customers’’ to speak of. What is more, a typical short-term promo-
tion reaches only a few of the brand’s existing customers, say 10
percent or 20 percent. Yet promotions are very costly, and addition-
ally they have costly side effects on production and distribution
logistics.

No Long-Term Effects
Promotions do not seem to leave memory traces. (‘‘What brand had
20 cents off six or so months ago?’’) Consumers seem to accept that
prices are sometimes cut (even for a BMW, say, or air miles for first
class).
   Large-scale promotions now occur even though management has
traditionally sought to stop its salespeople from cutting the price.
(‘‘The only way I could nail the sale, sir.’’) Marketing management
itself now cuts the price, and even seems proud of it. Nonetheless,
price promotions must generally be run at a loss, otherwise there
would be even more of them. And the bigger the promotional blip,
the bigger the loss. So why is so much spent on price promotions?
Senior management would like to cut its promotional budget but
does not usually know how to. The exception was the unknown
CEO who said, ‘‘All you need is guts.’’

The Attractions of Promotions
Without a doubt, there are some things that a short-term price pro-
motion can accomplish. Here’s the most popular list of reasons we
have heard:
62   Price Is Rarely a Differentiating Idea

   Shift stock (by ‘‘giving the product away’’).
   Help catch up on a missed sales target (at a cost).
   Postpone losing shelf space (until the next threat).
   Buy extra shelf space (for a time).
   Satisfy the trade (for a time).
   Help keep up with the competition. (‘‘They did it last week.’’)
   Have something to do (instead of going to see the agency).

David Ogilvy on Price
David Ogilvy, a legend alongside the likes of Rosser Reeves and Bill
Bernbach, has some strong words to say about deals and price. They
are certainly worth repeating:

  Any damn fool can put on a deal, but it takes genius, faith and perse-
  verance to create a brand.
      The financial rewards do not always come in next quarter’s earn-
  ings per share, but come they do. When Philip Morris bought Gen-
  eral Foods for five billion dollars, they were buying brands.
      There used to be a prosperous brand of coffee called Chase &
  Sanborn. Then they started dealing. They became addicted to price-
  offs. Where is Chase & Sanborn today? Dead as a doornail.
      The manufacturers who dedicate their advertising to building a
  favorable image, the most sharply defined personality for their brand,
  are the ones who will get the largest share of market at the highest
  profit.
      The time has come to sound an alarm! To warn what is going to
  happen to brands if so much is spent on deals that there is no money
  left to advertise them.
      Deals don’t build the kind of indestructible image which is the
  only thing that can make your brand part of the fabric of American
  life.1

  As you can see, David Ogilvy also believed in being different.
                                      The Travails of Sports Retailing   63

Getting Hammered in Russia
It might shock you, but Coke and Pepsi initially got hammered by a
local soft drink company called Crazy Cola in Krasnoyarsk, Russia.
AC Nielsen Russia had them at a 48 percent share of cola sales
volume.
   The reason was price. At a local grocery, a 2-liter bottle of Coke
or Pepsi cost the equivalent of 77 U.S. cents; a 1.5-liter bottle of
Crazy Cola was 39 cents. The premium price was beyond the reach
of most consumers.
   Now they are getting hammered by a drink called Nickola, which
is not as sweet and more natural. Their slogan is ‘‘Don’t drink
cola—drink Nickola.’’
   The question is whether or not Coke and Pepsi can hang in there
and continue to take losses. And old Soviet lemonade drink is also
growing fast. Their claim is that they are not as artificial as Ameri-
can colas. As we say on the cover, we’re in an era of killer
competition.

The Travails of Sports Retailing
Among the full-line retailers in this $46 billion industry, the four
biggest publicly held companies are losing money. Jumbo Sports
(once known as Sports and Recreation) is on its way to dying. Just
for Feet of Birmingham, Alabama, is closing a large chunk of its 236
stores and reorganizing under Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
    Sports Authority, by far the biggest, has seen its stock swoon and
is struggling to turn itself around.
    The problem, in a nutshell, is that if you live by price, you can
die by price—especially in an industry that is overpopulated by
sports retailers both online and of the bricks-and-mortar variety.
    None of these establishments is differentiated nor do they have
unique merchandise to sell. That leaves them with just ‘‘price’’ as
their strategy. This isn’t much of a weapon when you have to take
64   Price Is Rarely a Differentiating Idea

on the likes of Wal-Mart and Kmart which now account for 35 per-
cent of all sporting goods sales.
   Unfortunately, a lot of these folks won’t stay in the game for very
long.

The Ultimate Price: Free
What is truly amazing today is the rush of Internet firms that, in an
effort to boost traffic, have adopted no-charge policies. There are
free e-greetings or e-faxes, a dozen companies offering free e-mail,
five offer free computers, others offer free software. They figure
they’ll eventually make money by running ads for paying customers.
Hopefully, something will turn up.
    It’s becoming a fact of Internet life. ‘‘Time and again, do-it-for-
free companies are coming in and spoiling an industry for every-
one else,’’ says venture capitalist David Cowan in a Wall Street
Journal article. ‘‘And if you don’t give it away, some other start-up
will.’’2
    Can any of these for-free companies ever make money on adver-
tising or purchases online? That question is still very much up in the
air. But one thing is perfectly clear: As long as venture capitalists
and the stock market keep shoveling money at Internet businesses,
entrepreneurs are going to try ever more daredevil approaches to
build a business.3
    Good luck.

Differentiating with High Price
We’re far more impressed with companies that use a high price to
help differentiate themselves.
  Joy perfume announced that it’s the ‘‘costliest perfume in the
world.’’ There are two important principles at work here:

  1. High-quality products should be more expensive. People expect to
     pay more for a better product, but the quality should be visible
                                         Differentiating with High Price   65

     in some way. A jar of Orville Redenbacher gourmet popping
     corn looks a lot more impressive than a less expensive can of
     Jolly Time. It also promises the benefit of popping almost all of
     the kernels.
        If I’m paying more for a NorthFace outdoor jacket, it’s help-
     ful if I have that GoreTex label hanging on it that says ‘‘guar-
     anteed to keep you dry.’’ My Rolex should look sturdy and
     substantial. But, to be honest, a lot of watches at a fraction of
     the Rolex price look sturdy and substantial. This raises the
     next point.
  2. High-priced products should offer prestige. If I’ve spent $5,000 for
     a Rolex, I want my friends and neighbors to know I’m wearing
     a Rolex. It’s how they know I’m successful. So it is with expen-
     sive cars. While they will never admit it, the reason people
     spend $50,000 for a car is to impress their friends and neigh-
     bors.
        Therein lies the reason why the Cadillac Allante was a
     $50,000 bomb. Would my neighbors be impressed with a Ca-
     dillac? Where’s the prestige? How will my neighbors know I
     spent $50,000 for an automobile?

    What does a high price say about the product? It says the product
is worth a lot. In essence, the high price becomes an inherent bene-
fit of the product itself. (This is one of the powerful motivating fac-
tors in the success of many high-end flanking moves—Mercedes-
Benz automobiles, Absolut vodka, Grey Poupon mustard—to name
three examples.)
                         C H A P T E R

                                 8

Breadth of Line Is a Difficult
   Way to Differentiate

A
       s we discussed in the opening chapter, people are over-
       whelmed by choice. This results in the fact that the average
       person has trouble making choices about buying decisions.
   But for some businesses, the big selection does work as a differ-
entiator. Charles Lazarus, founder of Toys ‘‘R’’ Us, says, ‘‘When pa-
rents have no clear idea of what to buy, they go to the store with the
biggest selection.’’

Category Killers
‘‘Biggest selection’’ has become the big mantra in retailing. But this
has become a moving target. Superstores, or ‘‘category killers,’’ as
they are lovingly referred to, have become kings of the hill in the

                                 67
68   Breadth of Line Is a Difficult Way to Differentiate

industry. These superstores have become successful by using an
everything-under-one-roof approach and deep discounts to cater to
different niches. Toys ‘‘R’’ Us led the superstore wave that is now
populated by the likes of Home Depot, Lechters, Staples, Auto
Zone, PetSmart, and their superstore competitors.
   But now we find that the superstores are under attack by very
specialized full-line stores. These stores carve out narrow, profitable
segments of the superstores’ businesses. Noodle Kidoodle is an ex-
ample that caters to the upscale educational toy market.

Enter the Discounters
As with price, the problem of using ‘‘breadth of line’’ as a differen-
tiator is that there is no way to keep your competitors from using the
same strategy.
   The discounters are using their size and buying power to increase
their emphasis on some product categories. Wal-Mart, for example,
has opened up large toy sections in its stores.
   Here are a few examples of just how ugly it has gotten in the land
of retail:

   Baby Superstore came up with a winning idea: Sell everything
     for babies under one roof. Now Toys ‘‘R’’ Us has created the
     knockoff Babies ‘‘R’’ Us, and discounters like Target are wad-
     ing in, all of which puts pressure on Baby Superstores’ earnings.
   CompUSA cut into the sales of the computing departments of
     small electronics and office supply stores. Now electronics
     superstores, office supply superstores, mail-order houses, and
     other computer superstores are selling computers, and the price
     competition has made margins razor thin.
   Sports Authority put many regional sports stores out of busi-
     ness. But now the Kmart unit is finding more growth difficult
     in this mature market segment, where many competitors are
     trying to emulate its formula.
                                    Becoming More Shopper Friendly   69

   Party City made the party sections of local stores seem anach-
    ronistic. But just as it went public, copycats appeared. Now dis-
    count stores like Wal-Mart are offering party supplies for less,
    and other superstores like Garden Ridge, a home decorator,
    have opened giant party sections in their stores.

How Big Is Too Big?
Ironically, the breadth-of-line concept that made many of these
stores different is now turning into a nightmare.
   First there’s the problem of managing the endless selection of
SKUs crammed into these giant boxes called stores. Watch some
poor salesperson at Home Depot trying to find the right item in car-
tons that are 25 feet overhead. It’s something to behold. The com-
puter might say it’s there, but finding it is another matter.
   Then there is the issue of alienating core consumer groups.
While the die-hard bargain hunter may relish the allure of discovery
amid a maze of aisles, less driven shoppers often find the same for-
mat frustrating or intimidating.
   Growing legions of time-short Americans have opted for pricier
quick-hit trips to convenience stores and strip malls. This is espe-
cially true for single shoppers who don’t want to waste precious
after-work time or weekend hours in a store.
   Older consumers are often turned off by the prospect of parking
on the fringes of a huge parking lot and then having to lug bulky
packages back to the car.
   Younger parents with cranky kids in tow don’t have the time to
figure out a bewildering store layout.

Becoming More Shopper Friendly
The behemoth category killers are now wrestling with the problems
of being too big. Some are reducing SKUs and making their interi-
ors more approachable with better lighting, wider aisles, and lower
shelves.
70   Breadth of Line Is a Difficult Way to Differentiate

    Others are into trying to create a festive shopping experience by
adding entertainment, fast food, interactive displays, anything to
entice people to hang around for a while and, hopefully, to buy a
little more.
    While variety is the spice of life, too much spice will lead to
heartburn.

Wal-Mart Junior
What do you do to attract customers who are intimidated by ‘‘too
big?’’ Wal-Mart’s answer is a scaled-down store called the Wal-Mart
Neighborhood Market.
   Very quietly, without a lot of fanfare, this retailing juggernaut
has opened about 120 of these Neighborhood Markets in the
United States (and is also testing them in Canada). They have
about 40,000 square feet, a quarter of the size of a typical Wal-Mart
Supercenter, but still offer more than 20,000 items. That means a
wide selection of groceries, health and beauty aids, photo develop-
ing, and some general merchandise.
   The company says the smaller stores are meant to ‘‘woo shoppers
with easier parking, less crowded aisles, and quicker checkout.’’
   This is an interesting experiment that could hammer another
nail in the coffin of the local, independent merchant.

Breadth of Line on the Web
If you think retail stores have taken choice too far, the Internet has
quickly become an infinite supply of goods and services. It’s
‘‘choice’’ not to a new level but to a new realm.
   eToys, Inc., for example, has added children’s books to the toys
and other kids’ products it carries. This means that eToys now offers
more than 100,000 different products. (How’s that for a full line of
kids’ products?)
                                 If the Shoe Fits, You Can Sell It Online   71

   Of course, the move into books puts them in competition with
Amazon and other online booksellers. Which of course is tit for tat
because Amazon has also launched into toys, electronics, CDs, and
whatever else they can sell.
   In the Web game, it appears that you can quickly find yourself
surrounded with online competitors saying to themselves, ‘‘We can
sell that.’’ And the next day, they do. As their tagline says, ‘‘Child-
hood dreams delivered.’’

If the Shoe Fits, You Can Sell It Online
Some ideas are a natural Web-fit and not easy to copy.
   Let’s say you’re looking for a pair of hand-sewn Messina loafers
from Allen-Edmunds in a size 13-Wide. Or a stylish Lilly Pulitzer
ballet flat in a size 6-Medium. The easiest place to find them is on-
line—at a virtual shoe store named Zappos.com which differenti-
ates itself by its huge selection. (The name comes from zapatos, the
Spanish word for shoes.)
   Instead of pricey mall real estate, Zappos has cheap warehouse
space which houses 1,090 brands of shoes in 158,000 styles. (They
post the new numbers daily on their web site.)
   Instead of letting you try on the shoes in pricey real estate, they
promise free shipping both ways, in case you have to return the
shoes.
   The founders knew a little secret: Long before the Internet
dawned, 5 percent—$2 billion in sales—of the $40 billion retail
shoe market already was being done through mail-order catalogs.
   To keep online copycats at bay, they’ve invested in blue-ribbon
customer service as well: A month of training for each new custom-
er service rep, no scripts to pressure callers, a no-hassles return poli-
cy. Most repeat customers get upgrades to free overnight or second-
day delivery. So far, there’s a bright shine on Zappos: Sales have
grown to $500 million in seven years.
72   Breadth of Line Is a Difficult Way to Differentiate

Cybersqueeze
Since every online player can quickly amass a breadth of line, this is
no longer a point of differentiation.
   So where do they head next? You guessed it: price. And as you
learned in Chapter 6, this is not an easy way to differentiate your-
self. Especially in a medium where your customers can compare
price with but a few keystrokes on their computer. (There’s no hav-
ing to go back into your car to drive to another store.)
   The bottom line is grim. Even the biggest players such as Ama-
zon are just beginning to make a profit. (Besides, not too many
Harry Potter books come along very often.) It’s becoming, as the
Wall Street Journal announced, ‘‘A site-eat-site world.’’

A Digital Gold Rush?
All this reminds us of the gold rush days in California: everyone
rushing off to get rich in the Internet mountains.
   But there just might be an important lesson in the history of this
event. The people who made the real money in the gold rush were
those who sold the maps, the tools, and the clothing. (It’s where
Levi’s started.)
   Most of the folks who rushed off to get rich never did. And what’s
worse, a fair percentage didn’t make it back alive.
   Our guess is that the equipment manufacturers as well as the le-
gion of consultants designing the web sites and fancy interfaces will
make the most of the gold.

What’s Really Needed
As the Web becomes an infinite supply of goods and services, what
people will really need is guidance on what and where to buy. Sort
of a Zagat’s for everything, which would be a site consisting entirely
of consumer opinions and reviews of anything you can buy.
                                                  An Important Lesson   73

   But then there’s the question of how this site could make money
and how it would be organized. Restaurants are one thing but wad-
ing into the Internet is another. All that information would be
tough to swallow.

An Important Lesson
What the retail and Web world demonstrates is the fact that all dif-
ferentiators are not created equal.
   Breadth of line is nowhere near as strong a differentiator as things
such as leadership or preference or product difference. The reason is
that it can be easily copied by a competitor. This leaves you with
very little maneuvering room other than price.
   This is why, when working with clients, we often try to use this
concept as a stepping-stone to a differentiator with more longevity.
Such was the case of a retailer in New England—Alperts.

From ‘‘Full Line’’ to ‘‘Preference’’
One retailer that has been successful in using breadth of line as a
differentiator is a large furniture store in Rhode Island called Al-
perts Furniture Showplace. But they used it as a stepping-stone to
building a unique selling proposition around preference, which is a
better differentiator (see Chapter 15).
   First, they built a very large store that was able to accommodate a
very large selection of furniture. This enabled them to sell more fur-
niture out of one location than any other store. This set up the fol-
lowing case for shopping at Alperts. The copy is straight out of a
radio commercial:
  Getting a good value is one thing. But getting good value on a lot of
  good things is what makes a store truly successful. And that’s what
  Alperts is all about. People come for a good deal, but what really
  surprises them is the amazing selection of furniture of all kinds under
  one roof.
74   Breadth of Line Is a Difficult Way to Differentiate

     As a result, we sell more fine furniture in one store than our com-
  petition sells in all their stores combined. The way we figure it, if you
  don’t find what you’re looking for, we haven’t done our job.
     That’s why Alperts has become Rhode Island’s favorite furniture
  store.

   As Hershel Alpert would probably say, ‘‘Upon this breadth of
line, I built my preference story.’’ And it’s a wonderful story that
saw his business increase dramatically. Alpert’s is indeed Rhode Is-
land’s favorite place to buy furniture.
                          C H A P T E R

                                  9

The Steps to Differentiation

T
       his chapter explains, for the first time, a process we’ve devel-
       oped over our 30 years in the differentiating business. It’s not
       about being creative or cute or imaginative. It’s all about log-
ic, which is a science that deals with the rules and tests of sound
thinking.

The Power of Logic
A trip to a dictionary will define a logical argument as one that is
cogent, compelling, convincing, valid, clear. It shows skill in think-
ing or reasoning.
   Now doesn’t that sound like an argument you would like to have
to support what you’re trying to sell? You’d better believe it.
   And yet, how many logical arguments do you come across in the
marketing world? Very few.

                                  75
76   The Steps to Differentiation

   That lack of logic is at the heart of most programs that fail. On
the other side of the coin, if you can see the logic in the argument,
chances are you’ve got a winner.
   If Avis is only number two in rent-a-cars, then it figures that they
have to try harder. It’s not creative, it’s logical.
   If IBM’s size covers all aspects of computing, then it’s logical that
they can integrate all the pieces better than any other manufac-
turer. Integrated computing is what makes them different.

Creativity versus Logic
Since logic is a science, it’s logical that constructing a unique sell-
ing proposition (USP) should be a science, not an art. And yet the
creative faction fights this idea tooth and nail. They hate the
thought of being locked into a process that limits their creative
musing.
   But what’s worse is to see a company go through the strategy
process and come up with a straightforward logical argument for
their brand, then turn it over to the creative folks and watch the
argument disappear in a cloud of singing and dancing.
   Once, while working with a bank on their strategy, we discovered
that they were the leader in Small Business Administration loans in
their trading area. Most of those loans, it turned out, were going to
recent immigrants starting businesses in America—People pursuing
the American dream of success.
   The recommended strategy was logical and direct. What made
this bank different was that it was ‘‘the home of the American
dream.’’
   Everyone liked the idea, and it was handed over to an agency for
implementation. When we saw it again it had become ‘‘We bank on
your dreams.’’
   So much for logic and a differentiating idea.
   To avoid this, you have to make sure that everyone follows a sim-
ple, four-step process.
                                              Creativity versus Logic   77

Step 1: Make Sense in the Context
Arguments are never made in a vacuum. There are always surround-
ing competitors trying to make arguments of their own. Your mes-
sage has to make sense in the context of the category. It has to start
with what the marketplace has heard and registered from your
competition.
   What you really want to get is a quick snapshot of the percep-
tions that exist in the mind, not deep thoughts.
   What you’re after are the perceptual strengths and weaknesses of
you and your competitors as they exist in the minds of the target
group of customers.
   Our favorite mode of research is to line up the basic attributes
that surround a category and then ask people to score them on a
rating scale of 1 to 10. This is done on a competitor-by-competitor
basis. The objective is to see who owns what idea or concept in a
category. That’s the context for your argument.
   The context also includes what’s happening in the market. Is the
timing for your idea right?
   Nordstrom’s differentiating idea of ‘‘better service’’ played per-
fectly into the context of a department store world that was reduc-
ing its people and service as a way to cut costs.
   Lotus launched the first successful network on ‘‘groupware soft-
ware’’ called Notes just as corporate America was networking its
personal computers.
   It’s like riding a wave. If you’re too early or late you’ll go no-
where. Catch it just right and you’ll get a long and profitable ride
for your difference.

Step 2: Find the Differentiating Idea
To be different is to be not the same. To be unique is to be one of a
kind.
   So you’re looking for something that separates you from your
competitors. The secret to this is understanding that your different-
ness does not have to be product related.
78   The Steps to Differentiation

    Consider a horse. Yes, horses are quickly differentiated by their
type. There are racehorses, jumpers, ranch horses, wild horses, and
on and on. But, you can differentiate each type by breeding, per-
formance, stable, trainer, and on and on.
    Consider a college. The United States has too many colleges and
universities: 3,600 more than anywhere else in the world. They are
similar in many ways, especially in their willingness to take govern-
ment aid for grants and student loans.
    Hillsdale College, 90 miles west of Detroit, has come up with a
unique selling proposition to its conservative constituency by de-
clining all of Uncle Sam’s dollars, even for federally backed loans.
(Very few of its competitors can do this.)
    Hillsdale’s pitch: ‘‘We’re free from government influence.’’ They
reinforce this concept by positioning the college as a mecca for con-
servative thought.
    As one fund-raiser commented, ‘‘This is a product we can sell.’’
And they have the numbers to prove it.
    There are many ways to set your company or product apart. The
coming chapters cover this in far more detail. Let’s just say the trick
is to find that difference and then use it to set up a benefit for your
customer.

Step 3: Have the Credentials
To build a logical argument for your difference, you must have the
credentials to support your differentiating idea, to make it real and
believable. Earlier we mentioned IBM. Their size was the key cre-
dential in setting up ‘‘integrated computing.’’
   If you have a product difference, then you should be able to dem-
onstrate that difference. The demonstration, in turn, becomes your
credentials. If you have a leak-proof valve, then you should be able
to have a direct comparison with valves that can leak.
   Claims of difference without proof are really just claims. For
example, a ‘‘wide-track’’ Pontiac must be wider than other cars.
British Air as the ‘‘world’s favorite airline’’ should fly more people
                                              Creativity versus Logic   79

than any other airline. Coca-Cola as the ‘‘real thing’’ has to have
invented colas. When it’s ‘‘Hertz and not exactly’’ there should be
some unique services that the others don’t offer.
   You can’t differentiate with smoke and mirrors. Consumers are
skeptical. They’re thinking, ‘‘Oh yeah, Mr. Advertiser? Prove it!’’
You must be able to support your argument.
   It’s not exactly like being in a court of law. (Although you might
have to prove every claim if you get challenged by the FTC or the
TV networks.)
   It’s more like being in the court of public opinion.

Step 4: Communicate Your Difference
Just as you can’t keep your light under a basket, you can’t keep your
difference under wraps.
   If you build a differentiated product, the world will not automati-
cally beat a path to your door. Better products don’t win. Better per-
ceptions tend to be the winners. Truth will not win out unless it has
some help along the way.
   Every aspect of your communications should reflect your differ-
ence—Your advertising. Your brochures. Your web site. Your sales
presentations.
   We have a client in the fast-food world who sends Christmas
cards to his franchisees. The CEO called with the complaint that
his card didn’t have his differentiating idea in it. We suggested that
it was Christmas and maybe he could skip it. He retorted, ‘‘No. I
want it in the card.’’ Needless to say, his difference went out along
with his Christmas greetings.
   The bottom line: You can’t overcommunicate your difference.
   A real differentiating idea is also a real motivational tool. When
Avis said, ‘‘We’re only number two. We try harder,’’ their people
took it to heart. They were proud to be underdogs.
   When we did the ‘‘fast moving bank’’ for United Jersey Banks
some years ago, their employees caught the spirit. They wanted to
be faster than their big-city rivals (whom we called Lethargic
80   The Steps to Differentiation

National Bank). They wanted to be faster in approving loans and
resolving complaints. They saw the value in being more responsive
to their customers.
   There’s a lot of hogwash in corporate America about employee
motivation—brought to you by the ‘‘peak performance’’ crowd,
along with their expensive pep rallies.
   The folks who report to you don’t need mystical answers on
‘‘How do I unlock my true potential?’’ The question they need an-
swered is, ‘‘What makes this company different?’’
   That answer gives them something to latch on to and run with.
   Real motivation starts with the weapon of a differentiating idea.
Then you can challenge your troops to bring it to life (and make it
flourish) in sales, product development, engineering, wherever they
work.

Some Words about Resources
Having a good differentiating idea is not enough. You have to have
the resources to build a communications program that proclaims
your difference to the marketplace.
   Even the best idea in the world won’t go very far without the
money to get it off the ground. Inventors, entrepreneurs, and as-
sorted idea generators seem to think that all their good ideas need is
professional marketing help.
   Nothing could be further from the truth. Marketing is a game
fought in the mind of the prospect. You need money to get into a
mind. And you need money to stay in the mind once you get there.
   You’ll get further with a mediocre idea and a million dollars than
with a great idea alone.

Advertising Is Expensive
Some entrepreneurs see advertising as the solution to the problem
of getting into prospects’ minds. Advertising isn’t cheap. It cost
                                                It Helps to Be Rich   81

$9,000 a minute to fight World War II. It cost $22,000 a minute to
fight the Vietnam War. A one-minute commercial on the NFL
Super Bowl will cost you more than $2 million.
   Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak had a great idea. But it was Mike
Markkula’s $91,000 that put Apple Computer on the map. (For his
money, Markkula, a venture capitalist, got one-third of Apple. He
should have held out for half.)
   Ideas without money are worthless. Well . . . not quite. But you
have to use your idea to find the money, not the marketing help.
The marketing can come later.
   Some entrepreneurs see publicity as a cheap way of getting into
prospects’ minds. ‘‘Free advertising’’ is how they see it. Publicity
isn’t free. Rule of thumb: 5-10-20. A small public relations agency
will want $5,000 a month to promote your product; a medium-size
agency, $10,000 a month; and a big-time agency, $20,000 a month.
   Some entrepreneurs see venture capitalists as the solution to
their money problems. But only a tiny percentage succeed in finding
the funding they need this way.
   Some entrepreneurs see corporate America as ready, willing, and
financially able to get their offspring off the ground. Good luck, be-
cause you’ll need it. Very few outside ideas are ever accepted by
large companies. Your only real hope is finding a smaller company
and persuading it of the merits of your idea.
   Remember, an idea without money is worthless. Be prepared to
give away a lot for the funding.

It Helps to Be Rich
In marketing, the rich often get richer because they have the resour-
ces to drive their ideas into the mind. Their problem is separating
the good ideas from the bad ones, and avoiding spending money on
too many products and too many programs.
   Competition is fierce. The giant corporations put a lot of money
behind their brands. Procter & Gamble and Philip Morris each
82   The Steps to Differentiation

spend more than $2 billion a year on advertising. General Motors
spends $1.5 billion a year.
   Unlike a consumer product, a technical or business product has
to raise less marketing money because the prospect list is shorter
and media is less expensive. But there is still a need for adequate
funding for a technical product to pay for brochures, sales presenta-
tions, and trade shows as well as advertising.

Iron Computer Melts Down
Consider the sad story of a computer company with a real differ-
ence: Personal computers for harsh environments such as hot res-
taurant kitchens.
   No one was making hard-as-nails computers, so a gentleman
named John Opincar borrowed $50,000 from family and friends and
founded Iron Computer.
   But he overrelied on a risky initial public offering on the Inter-
net. Not much money was forthcoming and he was unable to do
any real marketing. Iron Computer went into bankruptcy with a
wonderful differentiating idea.
   Money makes the marketing world go around. If you want to be
successful today, you’ll have to find the money you need to spin
those marketing wheels.
                          C H A P T E R

                                 10

Differentiation Takes Place
       in the Mind

A
       s you saw in the last chapter, the final step in differentiation
       was about building a program to make people aware of your
       difference.
   Doing this entails ‘‘positioning,’’ a subject we’ve been writing
about since 1969. While many in business use this word, many still
don’t know the definition of positioning: how you differentiate your
product in the mind of your prospect.
   So, for those of you who have missed our many books, speeches,
and articles on the subject, here’s a synopsis of how the mind works
and what are the key principles of positioning.
   If you understand how the mind works, you’ll understand posi-
tioning. These principles underpin our differentiating advice in fu-
ture chapters.

                                  83
84   Differentiation Takes Place in the Mind

Minds Can’t Cope
While the mind may still be a mystery, we know one thing about it
that is for certain—it’s under attack.
   Most Western societies have become totally ‘‘overcommuni-
cated.’’ The explosion of media forms, and the ensuing increase in
the volume of communications, has dramatically affected the way
people either take in or ignore the information offered to them.
   Overcommunication has changed the whole game of communi-
cating with and influencing people. What was overload in the 1970s
turned into megaload by the turn of the century.
   Here are some statistics to illustrate the problem:

   More information has been produced in the past 30 years than
     in the previous 5,000.
   The total of all printed knowledge doubles every four or five
     years.
   One weekday edition of the New York Times contains more in-
     formation than the average person was likely to come across in
     a lifetime in seventeenth-century England.
   More than 4,000 books are published around the world every
     day.
   The average white-collar worker uses 70 kilograms of copy pa-
     per a year—twice the amount consumed 10 years ago.

Electronic Bombardment
And what about the electronic side of our overcommunicated
society?
   Every day, the World Wide Web grows by a million electronic
pages, according to Scientific American, adding to the many hun-
dreds of millions already online.
   Everywhere you travel in the world, satellites are beaming end-
less messages to every corner of the globe. By the time a child in the
                                                 Minds Are Limited   85

United Kingdom is eighteen, he or she has been exposed to 140,000
TV commercials. In Sweden, the average consumer receives 3,000
commercial messages a day.
   In terms of advertising messages, 11 countries in Europe now
broadcast well over 6 million TV commercials a year. In the United
States, the electronic side of overcommunication continues its re-
lentless attack. Experts say that the country will be going from 150
channels of television to 500. (By the time you find something to
watch, the show will be over.)
   And then there are all those computers, and the much-hyped in-
formation superhighway, which promises to deliver massive
amounts of information to your home via fiber-optic cables, or CD-
ROMs . . . or whatever.
   All this means that your differentiating idea must be as simple
and as visible as possible and delivered over and over again on all
media. The politicians try to stay ‘‘on message.’’ Marketers must stay
‘‘on differentiation.’’

Minds Are Limited
Marketing people, and the minds of the people they are trying to
influence, are often in conflict.
   Unfortunately, these arguments are being presented to minds
that really aren’t up to dealing with all that glorious information.
   Our perceptions are selective. And our memory is highly selec-
tive. We are cursed with the physiological limitation of not being
able to process an infinite amount of stimuli. This means that in a
crowded category, your difference might not be enough unless it is a
dramatic difference.
   Seeing is not akin to photographing the world—merely register-
ing an image. Memory is not a tape recorder that stores information
when we turn it on.
   How much of your message gets through depends to a large part
on what you are selling, according to years of data compiled on
readership scores by advertising category.
86   Differentiation Takes Place in the Mind

   For instance, an advertisement for footwear is going to be twice
as interesting as an ad for floor coverings, regardless of the brand
names or benefits.
   Similarly, an ad for perfume—almost any perfume—is going to
have double the average readership of a furniture ad.
   There is even a ‘‘no-interest’’ category where people will remem-
ber no brand names. It’s caskets. The lead brand is Batesville. But
after a few paragraphs, you’ll have forgotten this.
   These interest levels—these biases—are firmly in place before we
even pick up a magazine or newspaper. This is why the first and sec-
ond brands in the market have an enormous mental advantage over
the later entrants. They tend to preempt the most important
differences.

Minds Hate Confusion
Human beings rely more heavily on learning than any other species
that has ever existed.
   Learning is the way animals and humans acquire new informa-
tion. Memory is the way they retain that information over time.
Memory is not just your ability to remember a phone number.
Rather, it’s a dynamic system that’s used in every other facet of
thought processing. We use memory to see. We use it to understand
language. We use it to find our way around.
   So, if memory is so important, what’s the secret of being
remembered?
   When asked what single event was most helpful to him in devel-
oping the theory of relativity, Albert Einstein is reported to have
answered: ‘‘Figuring out how to think about the problem.’’
   Half the battle is getting to the essence of the problem. Generally
speaking this means having a deep understanding of your competi-
tion and their place in the mind of your prospect.
   It’s not about what you want. It’s about what your competition
will let you do.
                                                  Minds Are Insecure   87

The Power of Simplicity
The basic concept of some products predicts failure. Not because
they don’t work, but because they don’t make sense. Consider Men-
nen’s vitamin E deodorant. That’s right, you sprayed a vitamin
under your arm. It doesn’t make sense unless you want the health-
iest, best-fed armpits in the nation. It quickly failed.
   Consider the Apple Newton. It was a fax, beeper, calendar keep-
er, and pen-based computer. Too complex. It’s gone and the much
simpler Palm Pilot is an enormous success.
   The best way to really enter minds that hate complexity and con-
fusion is to oversimplify your message.
   Some of the most powerful programs are those that focus on
a single word. (Wells Fargo: fast. Volvo: safety. Listerine: kills
germs.)
   The lesson here is not to try to tell your entire story. Just focus on
one powerful differentiating idea and drive it into the mind.
   That sudden hunch, that creative leap of the mind that ‘‘sees’’ in
a flash how to solve a problem in a simple way, is something quite
different from general intelligence.
   If there’s any trick to finding that simple set of words, it’s one of
being ruthless about how you edit the story you want to tell.
   Anything that others could claim just as well as you can, elimi-
nate. Anything that requires a complex analysis to prove, forget.
Anything that doesn’t fit with your customers’ perceptions, avoid.

Minds Are Insecure
Pure logic is no guarantee of a winning argument. As we discussed
in Chapter 6, minds tend to be both emotional and rational. Why
do people buy what they buy? Why do people act the way they do in
the marketplace?
   When you ask people why they make a particular purchase, the
responses they give are often not very accurate or useful.
88   Differentiation Takes Place in the Mind

   That may mean they really do know, but they are reluctant to tell
you the right reason. More often, they really don’t know precisely
what their own motives are.
   For when it comes to recall, minds tend to remember things that
no longer exist. That’s why recognition of a well-established brand
often stays high over a long period, even if advertising support is
dropped. It’s all about the power of being first (see Chapter 11).
   In the mid-1980s, an awareness study was conducted on blenders.
Consumers were asked to recall all the brand names they could.
General Electric came out number two—even though General
Electric hadn’t made a blender for 20 years.

Buying What Others Buy
More often than not, people buy what they think they should have.
They’re sort of like sheep, following the flock.
   Do most people really need a four-wheel-drive vehicle? (No.) If
they did, why didn’t they become popular years ago? (Not
fashionable.)
   The main reason for this kind of behavior is insecurity, a subject
about which many scientists have written extensively. If you’ve been
around a long time, people trust you more and feel secure in their pur-
chase. This is why heritage is a good differentiator (see Chapter 14).
   Minds are insecure for many reasons. One reason is perceived risk
in doing something as basic as making a purchase. Behavioral scien-
tists say there are five forms of perceived risk:

  1. Monetary risk. (There’s a chance I could lose money on this.)
  2. Functional risk. (Maybe it won’t work, nor do what it’s sup-
     posed to do.)
  3. Physical risk. (It looks a little dangerous. I could get hurt.)
  4. Social risk. (I wonder what my friends will think if I buy this.)
  5. Psychological risk. (I might feel guilty or irresponsible if I buy
     this.)
                                             Minds Can Lose Focus   89

   All this explains why people tend to love underdogs but buy from
the perceived leaders. If everyone else is buying it, I should be buy-
ing it.

Minds Don’t Change
It’s futile trying to change minds in the marketplace. For example:

   Xerox lost hundreds of millions of dollars trying to convince
    the market that Xerox machines that didn’t make copies were
    worth the money. No one would buy their computers. But they
    still buy their copiers.
   Volkswagen’s share price dropped over 60 points when they
    tried to convince the market the VW wasn’t just a small, reli-
    able, economical car like the Beetle. No one bought their big,
    fast cars. They brought back the Beetle and people flocked to
    buy them.
   Coca-Cola blew both prestige and money in an effort to con-
    vince the market they had a better thing than ‘‘the real thing.’’
    No one bought their New Coke. But their Classic version sells
    as well as ever.

  When the market makes up its mind about a product, there’s no
changing that mind.
  As John Kenneth Galbraith once said, ‘‘Faced with the choice
between changing one’s mind and proving that there is no need to
do so, almost everyone gets busy on the proof.’’

Minds Can Lose Focus
Loss of focus is really all about line extension. And no issue in mar-
keting is so controversial.
   Companies look at the brands from an economic point of view.
To gain cost efficiencies and trade acceptance, they are quite will-
ing to turn a highly focused brand, and one that stands for a certain
90   Differentiation Takes Place in the Mind

type of product or idea, into an unfocused brand that represents two
or more types of products or ideas.
   Look at the issue of line extension from the point of view of the
mind. The more variations you attach to the brand, the more the
mind loses focus. Gradually, a well-differentiated brand like Chev-
rolet comes to mean nothing at all.
   Scott, the leading brand of toilet tissue, line extended its name
into Scotties, Scottkins, and Scott Towels. Pretty soon writing
‘‘Scott’’ on a shopping list meant very little and Charmin took over
the lead. (More on this in Chapter 20.)

Some Surprising Research
With about 70 percent of new products being launched with exist-
ing brand names, you would think these companies would have
some supporting data on the pluses of line extension. The opposite
is true.
    The Journal of Consumer Marketing noted a large-scale study of
115 new-product launches across five U.S. and U.K. markets.1 The
study compared the market share gained by products launched
under established family or corporate brand names with market
share gained by products launched under new brand names.
    Share was measured two years after each brand’s launch. The
brand extension products performed significantly less well than the
products launched with new brand names.
    The Harvard Business Review published a study on line extension.2
Their observations were that, among other things, line extension
weakened a brand’s image and disturbed trade relations. (More on
why this happens in Chapter 20.)

The Power of the Specialist
When you study the marketing wars, the well-differentiated special-
ist tends to be the winner (see Chapter 15).
                                            The Power of the Specialist   91

    Here are some thoughts on why the specialist brand appears to
make an impression on the mind. First, the specialist can focus on
one product, one benefit, and one message. This focus enables the
marketer to put a sharp point on the message that quickly drives it
into the mind.
    Domino’s can focus on home delivery. Pizza Hut has to talk about
its different pizzas, home delivery, and sit-down service.
    Another weapon of the specialist is the ability to be perceived as
the expert or the best. If that’s all they do, they must do it very well.
    Finally, the specialist can become the generic for the category.
Xerox became the generic word for copying. (‘‘Please Xerox that for
me.’’) Federal Express became the generic word for overnight deliv-
ery. (‘‘I’ll FedEx it to you.’’) Even though the lawyers hate it, mak-
ing the brand name a generic is the ultimate weapon in the
marketing wars. But it’s something only a specialist can do. The
generalist can’t become a generic.
                          C H A P T E R

                                 11

            Being First Is a
          Differentiating Idea

G
         etting into the mind with a new idea or product or benefit is
         an enormous advantage. That’s because, as we described in
         the last chapter, minds don’t like to change.
   Psychologists refer to this as ‘‘keeping on keeping on.’’ Many ex-
periments have shown the magnetic attraction of the status quo.
Most decision makers display a strong bias toward alternatives that
perpetuate the current situation.
   The bottom line: People tend to stick with what they’ve got. If
you meet someone a little better than your wife or husband, it’s
really not worth making the switch, what with attorneys’ fees and
dividing up the house and kids.
   And if you’re there first, when your competitor tries to copy you,
all they will be doing is reinforcing your idea. It’s much easier to get

                                  93
94   Being First Is a Differentiating Idea

into the mind first than to try to convince someone you have a bet-
ter product than the one that did get there first.

Firsts That Are Still Firsts
Harvard was the first college in America and it’s still perceived as
the leader.
   Time magazine still is the leader over Newsweek. People leads US.
Playboy leads Penthouse.
   Chrysler, which introduced minivans, is still the leader in mini-
vans. Hertz, the original rent-a-car company, is still the leader at
airports.
   Hewlett-Packard leads in desktop laser printers, Sun in worksta-
tions, Xerox in copiers. The list goes on and on.
   In our minds, the fact that they pioneered the category or prod-
uct makes them different from their followers. They get a special
status because they were the first to the top of the mountain.
   This is why Evian, the French water, is spending $20 million in
advertising reminding consumers it is l’original.

So It Is in Families
Pioneer products are a lot like firstborn children—assertive, highly
motivated, often dominant.
   Products that aren’t first in their category—like later-born
children—tend to identify with the underdog and challenge the
established order.
   That’s why successful later-entry brands tend to be flankers. They
differentiate with an uncontested attribute or idea.
   Firstborns grow up knowing they are ‘‘bigger, stronger, and smar-
ter than their younger siblings,’’ says MIT scientist Dr. Frank Sullo-
way. Firstborns should also be more jealous and status conscious and
ready to defend their turf, adds Dr. Sulloway, because they’ve seen
their turf invaded by newcomers.1
                                                   When Seconds Die   95

   Sulloway, a science historian, spent two decades sifting through
more than 2,000 separate studies of birth order and its effects.
   Sulloway makes a compelling case that firstborns—whatever
their sex, class, or nationality—identify with authority and there-
fore live to defend the status quo.
   It’s the same with firstborn companies and products.

Why Firsts Stay Firsts
People feel that the first one is the original and all others are copy-
cats. Being the original translates into more knowledge and more
expertise. This is why Coke’s ‘‘the real thing’’ resonated so well.
(It’s an idea that never should have been dropped.)
   Studies show that in most cases being first to the market provides
a significant and substantial market share advantage over later en-
trants. It also forces later entrants to find their own distinctive posi-
tioning strategy.
   Such was the case with Pepsi-Cola’s ‘‘the choice of the new gen-
eration.’’ If Coke was the original, it obviously was for older folks.
Pepsi added a little extra sugar and went for younger folks. It was a
differentiating idea that also resonated with its target audience. (It’s
also an idea that never should have been dropped.)

When Seconds Die
Pepsi-Cola found a different way. Those that don’t rarely survive.
   Advil was the first over-the-counter ibuprofen. Until it came
along, there was only Motrin, which was sold only by prescription.
In fact, Advil introduced itself as ‘‘the same as the prescription drug
Motrin.’’ To the prospect that meant serious medicine without the
serious price.
   The second brand into the category was Nuprin. The third was
Medipren. But these brands never found a way to differentiate
themselves from Advil. The result is that they died.
96   Being First Is a Differentiating Idea

  Today, only Motrin IB survives, with less than a third of Advil’s
business. The reason they made it, where others didn’t, was that
they were the first ibuprofen.

The Generic Advantage
One reason the first brand tends to maintain its leadership is that
the name often becomes generic. Xerox, the first plain-paper copier,
became the name for all plain-paper copiers. People will stand in
front of a Ricoh or a Sharp or a Kodak machine and say, ‘‘How do I
make a Xerox copy?’’ They will ask for the Kleenex when the box
clearly says Scott. They will offer you a Coke when all they have is
Pepsi.
   How many people ask for cellophane tape instead of Scotch tape?
Not many. Most people use brand names when they become ge-
neric: Band-Aid, Fiberglas, Formica, Gore-Tex, Jell-O, Krazy Glue,
Q-tips, Saran Wrap, and Velcro—to name a few. Some people will
go to great lengths to turn a brand name into a generic. ‘‘FedEx this
package to the coast.’’ If you’re introducing the first brand in a new
category, you should always try to select a name that can work ge-
nerically. (Lawyers advise the opposite, but what do they know
about marketing?)

Now the Bad News
First or new big ideas can start very slowly and take a long time
before commercial acceptance:

   The 35-mm camera took a long time between its first appear-
     ance in the 1920s and the Japanese success in the 1960s (40
     years).
   Microwave ovens were invented in 1946, but it was not until
     the mid-1970s that they gained acceptance (30 years).
                                                Still More Bad News   97

   VCRs were introduced in 1956, but it wasn’t until 1975 that
     the home market took off (20 years).
   Telephone answering machines evolved slowly in the late
     1950s. Demand exploded in the mid-1980s (25 years).
   Video games started in 1972 when the market boomed then
     went bust. Not until 1985, when Nintendo entered, did de-
     mand materialize for the long term (13 years).
   Light beer languished while the pioneers tried to figure out how
     to position the product to consumers (9 years).

  The moral here is that you have to be prepared to hang in there
when you’re first and not let someone steal your idea.

Still More Bad News
Being first, even if you hang around for a while, is still no guarantee
of success. Consider the stories of imitators that surpassed the
pioneers:
   Leica was the technology and market leader for decades in 35-
     mm cameras until the Japanese copied German technology,
     improved on it, and lowered prices. The pioneer failed to react
     and ended up a bit player.
   Reynolds and Eversharp were the pioneers in ballpoint pens
     when the fad first started in the late 1940s. Bic entered last and
     sold pens as cheap disposables. The pioneers are out of the
     game.
   Digital Research pioneered CP/M operating systems for personal
     computers. They were the early standard but did not upgrade for
     the IBM PC. Microsoft bought an imitative upgrade and be-
     came the new standard. Windows arrived and the rest is history.
   Diners Club pioneered the credit card in 1950. They were
     undercapitalized in a business where money is the key resource.
     Visa is now everywhere. Diners Club is nowhere.
98   Being First Is a Differentiating Idea

   de Havilland was a British aircraft maker that rushed to the
     market with a jet that crashed frequently. Boeing followed
     with safer, larger, and more powerful jets that didn’t crash.
     Guess who won?
   Sunshine Biscuits introduced Hydrox and pioneered the choc-
     olate sandwich cookie market. National Biscuit (Nabisco)
     launched Oreo cookies in 1912. Superiority in distribution and
     advertising resulted in no contest. It became an American
     original even though there was nothing original about it.

   The list of losers goes on, but you get the point. Being first is one
thing. Staying first is another. It takes enormous effort and energy to
ride that wave. Gillette pioneered razor blades and, to this day, is the
dominant leader. They did it with endless innovations and relentless
knocking off of anyone who entered the market with a new idea
(such as Wilkinson with stainless). Today, Gillette has 65 percent
of the world’s blade business. No one is going to take their business.

Needed: A Good Idea
Successful firsts aren’t tricky. They tend to be good ideas. Con-
versely, unsuccessful firsts tend to be bad ideas.
    R.J. Reynolds spent a fortune on the first smokeless cigarette.
This is the antithesis of common sense. Their theory was that
smokeless cigarettes would appeal to nonsmokers. Unfortunately,
nonsmokers don’t buy cigarettes.
    Something like $325 million went up in smoke (or nonsmoke)
with the dismal launch of Premier cigarettes. The cigarettes were
hard to light, did not generate any ash (which smokers love to tap
and flick), and smelled bad. Reynolds’s own president was quoted as
saying they ‘‘tasted like crap.’’ Premier may have been a first, but it
was just plain stupid.
    And then we come to Frosty Paws, the first ice cream for dogs.
‘‘It’s not ice cream, but your dog will think it is,’’ said the
                                                  One More Sad Tale   99

introductory ad. Reality check, please. It’s pretty well established
that Fido will eat almost anything you throw on the floor. Does he
need premium-priced fake ice cream? More to the point, are you
really going to buy it for him?
   Being first with a stupid idea is just, well, stupid. It won’t get you
anywhere.

One More Sad Tale
So, while being first with an idea is paramount if possible, it has to
be a workable differentiating idea. Consider the sad saga of Rosen
Motors, which was founded in 1993 and closed in 1997.
    The Rosen brothers were impressive people. Harold was a former
Hughes Electronics engineer who pioneered the geostationary com-
munications satellite. Ben was the chairman of Compaq Computer
and a legend in the personal computer industry.
    They poured $24 million and three years into developing an au-
tomobile drivetrain with an energy-storing flywheel. This system
stored energy that’s normally dissipated during braking and released
it for sudden bursts of acceleration that a turbine alone couldn’t pro-
vide. Nice idea in a test vehicle. Bad idea in Detroit, which is not
disposed to contract out the guts of its cars to another manufacturer.
    The major automakers snubbed Rosen Motors’ visionary drive-
train because they had other ideas and flywheel technology didn’t
figure into their plans. Rosen Motors got squeezed out with what
just wasn’t a workable differentiating idea. It was just wishful
thinking.
    Now consider the success of Toyota’s hybrid approach to saving
energy. This had a happy ending because Toyota had the resources
to see their vision get to the market. Long ago we wrote a book
about the 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing. The last law was titled
‘‘The Law of Resources.’’ It warned that without proper resources,
even the best idea will not get off the ground. Rosen never had the
resources.
100   Being First Is a Differentiating Idea

A ‘‘First’’ Ignored
A trip into the Yellow Pages to find someone to air-condition your
home will turn up the likes of Trane, Fedders, Carrier, and other
companies that claim to be able to do the job. If you look at their
slogans, you’ll see things like ‘‘Relax, it’s Rheem,’’ ‘‘Lennox. One
less thing to worry about,’’ ‘‘custom-made indoor weather,’’ or ‘‘cus-
tomizing your environment.’’ Finding a difference is hard to do.
Could they truly be all the same? Your only choice is to go next door
and find out who did your neighbor’s home.
   But if you really start to do some digging about air conditioning,
you’ll find out that it all was invented by a gentleman in 1902. Few
people know the name of the man responsible for their comfort. He
never became famous because he spent most of his time in the labo-
ratory improving on his invention. His name was Willis Carrier.
   The opportunity is there for Carrier to use their heritage and re-
invent the air conditioner with some new designs.
   Instead of presenting themselves as ‘‘We’re the inside guys,’’ they
should stop ignoring their past and set themselves apart by saying,
‘‘We’re the guys that invented air conditioning.’’

A Healthy First
Here’s a new product ‘‘first’’ that bucked the odds.
   It’s called Airborne, and it was the first herbal health product
created to fight airborne germs and viruses. Airborne is a vitamin-
herb combination that promises to protect frequent flyers from the
unhealthy air at 35,000 feet—or to protect schoolteachers from
runny little noses.
   The U.S. dietary supplement industry rings up $21 billion annu-
als in sales. Introduced in 1997, Airborne rapidly became the #1
selling herbal supplement in the cough and cold aisle. Sales for
2006 were $100 million.
   The herd effect helped give Airborne a lift. Hollywood celebri-
ties like it, and pro and college sports training staffs swear by it.
                                                 A Do-Good First   101

  Successful firsts spawn copycats, and Airborne’s knockoffs are
more blatant than most. Walgreens has Wal-borne, in a box with
the same color scheme. Other drug chains have introduced Air
Shield and Air Defender. But so far, the first into the market is
holding its own.

A Merger Tale
An organization called Kranson Industries was acquiring a number
of organizations that were packaging distributors. These were com-
panies that didn’t manufacture packaging but supplied a wide varie-
ty of packaging solutions to companies that didn’t need a zillion
packages per year.
   In a short time, they were twice as big as the second largest dis-
tributor and five times as big as most other distributors. They were
ready to become something different.
   Kranson put together their two biggest distributors, Tricor and
Braun, and became TricorBraun, ‘‘the industry’s first super
distributor.’’
   This new very large organization had the credentials to supply
more buying leverage, more design and development support, and
more knowledge to solve complex packaging problems.
   They introduced this new entity at a big industry trade show, and
as CEO Richard Glassman reported, ‘‘We blew our lesser competi-
tors away.’’
   Be first and you will automatically be different. If you can hang in
there and fight off the imitators, you will be very successful.

A Do-Good First
There are 500 or so bottled waters out there from giants to pygmies.
(More on water in Chapter 12.) So here comes a brand called Keep-
er Springs Mountain Spring Water that really has an interesting dif-
ference: no profit.
102    Being First Is a Differentiating Idea

    Keeper Springs is the product of the Waterkeeper Alliance, an
environmental group out to raise money for their cause of cleaning
up polluted waterways. One of its supporters is Robert F. Kennedy
Jr., an environmental lawyer.
    Their differentiating idea is on every bottle: All their profits go to
the environment. They introduced this product with a wonderful
concept: ‘‘After just one sip, you’ve done more for the environment
than most politicians.’’
    As the president of their advertising agency says, ‘‘We feel we
have a very clear point of difference and we should push that
difference.’’2
    Well said. Giving away all your profits to do good sure is a unique
selling proposition. It’s also one that sure won’t attract many
imitators.

A Borrowed First
Being first in one part of the world doesn’t preclude someone from
borrowing that idea and launching a ‘‘first’’ in his or her own part of
the world.
   Such is the case for a gentleman in Spain.
   Fernandez Pujals, who was raised in Fort Lauderdale, Florida,
wasn’t shy about borrowing Domino’s home delivery idea. He came
up with a great name, TelePizza, and with $80,000 became the first
home delivery pizza in Madrid.
   In a little more than 10 years, TelePizza has opened almost 600
stores in half a dozen countries. His ‘‘borrowed first’’ now has a value
of $1.85 billion.
   As Thomas Edison advised, ‘‘Make it a habit to keep on the look-
out for novel and interesting ideas that others have used
successfully.’’
   In other words, being first often just means being observant.
                           C H A P T E R

                                  12

    Attribute Ownership Is a
      Way to Differentiate

T
        he word attribute is one of those marketing words that is used
        widely but not really understood. So let’s get our definitions
        straight before we plunge on.
   First, an attribute is a characteristic, peculiarity, or distinctive
feature of a person or thing.
   Next, persons or things are a mixture of attributes. Each person is
different in terms of sex, size, intelligence, skills, and attractiveness.
Each product, depending on the category, also has a set of different
attributes. Each toothpaste, for example, is different from other
toothpastes in terms of cavity prevention, plaque prevention, taste,
teeth whitening, and breath protection.

                                  103
104   Attribute Ownership Is a Way to Differentiate

Owning an Attribute
What makes a person or product unique is being known for one of
these attributes. Marilyn Monroe was known for her attractiveness.
Crest toothpaste is known for its cavity prevention. Marilyn could
have had a high degree of intelligence, but it wasn’t important. What
made her special was that pinup beauty. The same with Crest—it’s
all about fighting cavities. What it tasted like wasn’t important.
   Attribute ownership is probably the number one way to differen-
tiate a product or service.
   But beware, you can’t own the same attribute or position that
your competitor owns. You must seek out another attribute.
   Too often a company attempts to emulate the leader: ‘‘They must
know what works,’’ goes the rationale, ‘‘so let’s do something simi-
lar.’’ Not good thinking.
   It’s much better to search for an opposite attribute that will allow
you to play off against the leader: The key word here is opposite—
similar won’t do.
   Coca-Cola was the original and thus the choice of older people.
Pepsi successfully positioned itself as the choice of the younger
generation.
   The world of bourbon is dominated by the two J’s, Jim Beam and
Jack Daniel’s. So Maker’s Mark set out to own an attribute that
makes their smaller sales more attractive: ‘‘handcrafting our bour-
bon to produce a smooth, soft taste.’’
   Since Crest owned cavities, other toothpastes avoided cavities
and jumped on other attributes like taste, whitening, breath protec-
tion, and, more recently, including baking soda in the toothpaste.
   If you’re not a leader, then your word has to have a narrow focus.
Even more important, however, your word has to be ‘‘available’’ in
your category. No one else can have a lock on it.

Focus Is the Key
The most effective attributes are simple and benefit oriented. No
matter how complicated the product, no matter how complicated
                                             Attributes in Automobiles   105

the needs of the market, it’s always better to focus on one word or
benefit rather than two or three or four, and to stay with it. The
distinct difference Pepsi always had from Coke was its youth orien-
tation. The more Pepsi becomes homogenized with slogans like ‘‘the
joy of cola,’’ the more it loses its point of difference.
   Also, there’s the halo effect. If you strongly establish one benefit,
the prospect is likely to give you a lot of other benefits, too. A ‘‘thick-
er’’ spaghetti sauce implies quality, nourishing ingredients, value, and
so on. A ‘‘safer’’ car implies better design and engineering.
   Whether the result of a deliberate program or not, most success-
ful companies (or brands) are the ones that ‘‘own a word’’ in the
mind of the prospect.
   The following sections take you through some of these word or
attribute battles in the marketplace.

Attributes Are Not Created Equal
Some attributes are more important to customers than others. You
must try to own the most important attribute.
    Cavity prevention is the most important attribute in toothpaste. It’s
the one to own. But what we call the law of exclusivity points to the
simple truth that once an attribute is successfully taken by your compe-
tition, it’s gone. You must move on to a lesser attribute and live with a
smaller share of the category. Your job is to seize a different attribute,
dramatize the value of your attribute, and thus increase your share.
    Such was the case in the automotive field when, some years ago,
Detroit was invaded first from Germany and then from Japan with a
new attribute.

Attributes in Automobiles
For years, Detroit dominated the world of automobiles with its at-
tributes of ‘‘big,’’ ‘‘powerful,’’ and ‘‘comfortable.’’
   Then along came Volkswagen with the first ‘‘small’’ car that was
‘‘economical,’’ ‘‘reliable,’’ and ‘‘ugly.’’ Detroit laughed and said to
themselves, ‘‘America wants big, good-looking cars. And we have
the research to prove it.’’
106   Attribute Ownership Is a Way to Differentiate

   Then came the Japanese with their small but better-looking cars.
Detroit stopped laughing pretty quickly as 1.3 million small cars
were sold in 1997, with 40 percent of that total going to the Japa-
nese and Germans.
   Today, with gas priced above $3 a gallon, that trend continues.
In May 2007, the compact car share of total U.S. sales reached a
record 21 percent, according to data from Edmunds.com, the lead-
ing automotive web site. The small car boom especially helps Nis-
san, which showed double-digit sales increases over the previous
year.
   And what about the Detroit Three? The continuing small car
trend doesn’t bode well for GM, Ford, and Chrysler, which don’t
have as many new small models as the competition. (They’re rely-
ing more on SUV and trucks for sales and profits.)
   If you study the automotive category, you’ll find that the stron-
gest brands own important attributes:

                    BMW                Driving
                    Volvo              Safety
                    Mercedes           Engineering
                    Jaguar             Styling
                    Toyota             Reliability
                    Ferrari            Speed

  Brands such as Chevrolet, Nissan and Mercury, are weak brands
because they are unfocused and they don’t own an attribute.

No Attribute Uncovered
Gillette never laughs at new attributes that are the opposite of their
current products. The dominance of the world’s number one razor
blade maker revolves around its high-tech razors and cartridge sys-
tems. When an upstart from France brought an opposite attribute to
the category in the form of a ‘‘disposable’’ razor, Gillette could have
                                               Attributes in Retailing   107

laughed and wheeled out its research on how America wants hefty,
expensive, high-tech razors. But it didn’t.
   Instead, Gillette jumped in with a disposable razor of its own,
called Good News. By spending heavily, Gillette was able to win
the battle of the disposables.
   Today, the Gillette Good News razor dominates the disposable
category, which has grown to dominate the razor blade business.
Moral: You can’t predict the size of a new attribute’s share, so never
laugh.

Attributes in Credit Cards
Visa has dominated the credit card world by taking possession of the
attribute of being ‘‘everywhere.’’ They now account for nearly 53 per-
cent of the $1.16 trillion in annual credit card transactions. This is up
from 44 percent in 1985. That same year they were almost even with
MasterCard. Today, they enjoy a 2 to 1 ratio over the other bankcard.
   MasterCard’s problem is that they don’t own an attribute of their
own. They are trying to act like Visa. (Big mistake.) If Visa is
‘‘everywhere’’ in those glorious world traveler commercials, Master-
Card should have focused on the ‘‘everyday usage’’ attribute. They
should have become ‘‘Main Street’s charge card’’ in places like gro-
cery stores and gas stations. (At least their ‘‘For everything else’’
campaign is headed in that direction.)
   Not owning a different attribute has been an expensive lesson for
MasterCard.

Attributes in Retailing
There is no tougher battle than in mass merchandising where the
big chains are battling it out. Those with differentiating ideas are
doing fine. Those without aren’t.
   The biggest and probably the toughest big chain is Wal-Mart.
Their attribute is pretty straightforward: everyday low prices. And
they have the muscle and technology to back it up.
108   Attribute Ownership Is a Way to Differentiate

   Target, the $21 billion dollar division of Dayton Hudson, has
gotten away from the dowdy discount image by making low-price
shopping hip. Their differentiating attribute could be described as
‘‘mass with class.’’ And they have the advertising and nicely de-
signed products to back it up. (Target’s devotees like to pronounce
the name with a French twist: ‘‘Tar-zhay.’’)
   Ames was a regional $4-billion-in-sales operation that tried to
survive by targeting a clientele below the Wal-Mart set. One could
describe their differentiating attribute as ‘‘mass with no class.’’ To
support that concept, they cut costs and stocked up to sell to work-
ing people, old people, and big people. Nobody gets below Wal-
Mart. Ames is now dead.
   Caldor was a large 140-store chain in the Northeast. They had no
differentiating attribute. They died and were buried at the begin-
ning of 1999.
   As we said on the cover of this book, differentiate or die.

Attributes in Fast Food
Burger King was unsuccessful when it tried to take the attribute
‘‘fast’’ from McDonald’s. What should Burger King have done? Use
the opposite attribute? The exact opposite attribute, ‘‘slow,’’ won’t
do for a fast-food place (although there is an element of slowness in
Burger King’s ‘‘have it your way’’ concept).
    A single trip to any McDonald’s should be enough to find anoth-
er attribute that McDonald’s owns: ‘‘kids.’’ This is indeed the place
to which kids drag their parents, and McDonald’s has the swing sets
to prove it. This sets up an opportunity vividly demonstrated by the
Coke and Pepsi battle. If McDonald’s owns kids, then Burger King
has the opportunity to position itself for the older crowd, which in-
cludes any kid who doesn’t want to be perceived as a kid. That gen-
erally works out to be everyone over the age of ten. (Not a bad
market.)
    To make the concept work, Burger King would have to sacrifice
and give all the little kids to McDonald’s. While this might mean
                                                 Attributes in Water   109

getting rid of a few swing sets, it allows Burger King to hang ‘‘kiddie-
land’’ on McDonald’s (see Chapter 21 on sacrifice).
   To drive the concept into prospects’ minds, Burger King would
need a term. It could be ‘‘grow up.’’ Grow up to the flame-broiled
taste of Burger King.
   None of this happened, so McDonald’s rides on relatively
untouched.

Attributes in Water
Even a commodity product such as water can be differentiated by an
attribute. While water as a product could be considered boring, it
sure is a hot commodity in the marketplace. In the United States,
bulk sales of water are over 3 billion gallons. (Carbonated soft
drinks are 14.6 billion gallons.)
   To marketers, liquid gold comes in bottles because people are
paying money for nothing but water. So it’s not surprising to see
water fights breaking out all over the world. In Belgium, for exam-
ple, you have the story of Bru, a lightly sparkling mineral water lo-
cated in the Ardennes.
   To be specific, the source is Stoumont, in the AmbeEve Valley in
the Ardennes, a protected region.

Light Bubbles in Belgium
Since Bru was only lightly sparkling, it was caught midway between
flat and full-bodied sparkling waters. Thus, it lacked character.
   When you have a lemon, you make lemonade.
   The company introduced the attribute of ‘‘light bubbles,’’ which
they called ‘‘pearls’’ or l’eau perlée. Sales went from 1 million liters
in 1981 to 42 million in 1996. Today, Bru, with its attribute differ-
ence of light bubbles, is still one of the bestselling brands of the 50
varieties of bottled water in Belguim.
110   Attribute Ownership Is a Way to Differentiate

Low Sodium in Argentina
In Argentina, the number one bottled water is Villavicencio, a
mountain spring water with about 30 percent of the market. The
other mountain water is ECO de los Andes with a 10 percent share.
   For ECO to make any progress, they have to find a way to differ-
entiate themselves from the leader, thus supplying a reason to prefer
their brand. A quick look at the labels identifies that difference.
Villavicencio, because of where they are bottling their water, has a
very high sodium content (272 milligrams per 1.5-liter bottle) as
compared to ECO’s content (10.4 milligrams per 1.5-liter bottle).
Interestingly, ECO’s sodium content lines up perfectly with the
American Heart Association’s recommended sodium intake.
   ECO’s low-sodium attribute has enabled them to position them-
selves as ‘‘the low-sodium mountain water.’’ Now they have a
unique selling proposition that makes them not only healthier but
also different. (Rosser Reeves would have approved.)

The Use of ‘‘Negative’’ Attributes
Hanging ‘‘Kiddieland’’ on McDonald’s or ‘‘high sodium’’ on Villavi-
cencio is an example of attaching a negative attribute to your
competitor.
   This can be a very effective way to set up your attribute. We call
this repositioning the competition.
   Scope did this by hanging ‘‘bad taste’’ on Listerine en route to
becoming the ‘‘good-tasting’’ mouthwash. (That was easy.)
   BMW did it to Mercedes Benz when they set up the following
comparison: The ultimate sitting machine versus the ultimate driv-
ing machine.
   By repositioning Mercedes as a living room on wheels, they very
quickly were able to lay claim to the attribute of drivability.
   If you can hang a negative on your competition en route to set-
ting up what makes you different, you have a program that will be
twice as effective.
                                            Bloodless in New Jersey   111

  In the 2006 elections, we encouraged the Democrats to hang ‘‘In-
competent’’ on the Republicans. It helped return Congress into
their hands as the Republicans continued to muck things up.

Bloodless in New Jersey
There are times when you have to create an attribute.
   Such was the case of the Englewood (New Jersey) Hospital and
Medical Center, which found a way to differentiate themselves
from the 82 hospitals in the tristate area around New York. They
created an attribute called ‘‘bloodless surgery.’’
   It all began with an effort to serve the Jehovah’s Witness popula-
tion that refuses blood transfusions because of their religious beliefs.
Once the techniques and procedures were in place, promoting this
attribute not only attracted their target Jehovah’s Witness segment
but the broader general population as well. (Who wants to lose
blood?)
   Transfusion-free medicine has a lot of other advantages. It cre-
ates less stress on the immune system, so patients heal more quickly
after surgery. And it lowers infection rates.
   Pioneering and taking ownership of the attribute of ‘‘bloodless
medicine and surgery’’ resulted in a powerful differentiating attribute:

   More than 200 physicians from every discipline at the hospital
     have been trained in bloodless medicine and surgical proce-
     dures, and they in turn are teaching other physicians around
     the country.
   900 people attended an Englewood-sponsored conference on
     bloodless care for women’s health.
   More than 20,000 patients have been treated, and Englewood
     has become the national leader in bloodless procedures.
   In all, patients from 30 states and 20 countries have traveled to
     Englewood for what they see as a big difference in the way sur-
     gery is performed.
112   Attribute Ownership Is a Way to Differentiate

Smaller in New York
For some hospitals, size can be the attribute worth owning—even if
it’s small size.
    An hour north of Binghamton, New York is Chenango Memorial
Hospital, a 120-bed rural hospital that had endured several years of
losing money and declining morale. But as a successful turnaround
effort took hold in 2004, the hospital sought to reposition itself.
    The Best Little Hospital in Central New York—their unique posi-
tion and themeline—tapped a reservoir of internal pride and reson-
ated with patients, physicians, employees, board members, and
volunteers. And it became a promise of what consumers should
expect.
    Over a three-year period, the hospital turned around from losing
money to being solidly profitable. Perceptions of the hospital’s im-
age rose to all-time highs, and market share climbed from 40 per-
cent to 46 percent.
    Small is good.

Bigger in Massachusetts
When it comes to museums, you don’t always think of bigger as
being a better attribute. After all, it can take days to wander
through the confusing corridors of some museums.
   But with contemporary art, size does matter. These creations can
be enormous. The title of a 1981 work by Robert Rauschenberg is
not an exaggeration: The 1/4 Mile or 2 Furlong Piece. Most galleries
couldn’t even dream of exhibiting this monster.
   Enter the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art in the
Berkshire town of North Adams. With one gallery the size of a foot-
ball field and another with a soaring 40-foot ceiling, Mass MoCA
(its nickname) proudly differentiates itself as the largest center for
visual and performing arts in the United States. (It may be the larg-
est in the world.)
                                           Simple in Massachusetts   113

  Where did all this space come from? The museum is housed in a
vast, abandoned nineteenth-century factory complex that sprawls
over 13 acres. To date, six buildings have been transformed into
250,000 square feet of galleries and theater space.

Simple in Massachusetts
There are times when you can take advantage of the environment
in a category en route to owning an attribute.
   Such is the case in this high-tech, networked world where com-
panies are trying to set up intranets for their own organization or
between themselves and their customers. To do this is a complex
piece of work using outside experts and a great deal of money.
   A company called IntraNetics came up with a piece of software
that enabled a company to quickly install a suite of essential appli-
cations that could be easily modified and connected to customers
and partners.
   They were able to claim: ‘‘Finally. A simple way to build a power-
ful intranet.’’ In a complex world, it always works if you can pre-
empt the attribute of being simple. But life isn’t always simple on
the Internet. Consider the evolution of IntraNetics:

   The original team at IntraNetics grew disappointed with the
    long sales cycle and low return on investment. ‘‘In 1998, intra-
    nets were really just a gleam in the IT person’s eye. Basically,
    we were two years too early,’’ said one of the founders.
   So, they repackaged Intranetics as a free online service named
    Intranets.com, supported by revenue generated from online
    banner ads. It was an immediate success. At its peak, customers
    were consuming 40 million minutes a month for usage.
   Then the dot-com boom faded and online ad rates faltered.
    The company laid off 45 members of a 75-person staff.
   But: Incarnation #3. Intranets.com became a paid-subscription
    service, and this clicked. It created privately hosted
114    Attribute Ownership Is a Way to Differentiate

      communications networks for companies that sign up for what
      became known as ‘‘collaboration software.’’ It also got into
      web-based and audio-based conferencing systems. It grew to a
      customer base of paying subscribers from 10,000 companies.
   Happy ending for them: In 2005, WebEx Communications (a
      $400 million subsidiary of Cisco Systems) paid $45 million for
      Intranets.com. In effect, WebEx bought a rival that had aggres-
      sively chased the smaller end (100-employee companies) of its
      core market.

Is ‘‘Being Green’’ a Difference?
Finally, how about the environment itself?
   In these environmentally sensitive times, many are looking at
‘‘being green’’ as an attribute that they hope will make them differ-
ent. But the jury is still out on this. The debate has become
polarized.
   A group of business academics assert that it pays to be green.
They argue that firms can increase profits if they set ambitious envi-
ronmental targets. A second group of executives and academics em-
phasize that firms exist to serve their shareholders and serving the
environment is not very realistic.
   Well, let us give you some guidelines on being environmentally
sensitive as a differentiating attribute. In order to make a strategy of
environmental product differentiation succeed, a business must sat-
isfy three requirements:

  1. The business must find, or create, a willingness among custom-
     ers to pay for environmental quality.
  2. The business must establish credible information about the en-
     vironmental attributes of its products.
                                   Is ‘‘Being Green’’ a Difference?   115

  3. Its innovation must be defensible against imitation by
      competitors.
  In other words, you’ve got your work cut out for you. Our view is
that, of course, companies should be good citizens, but should find
another way to differentiate themselves.
                         C H A P T E R

                                13

      Leadership Is a Way to
          Differentiate

L
       eadership is the most powerful way to differentiate a brand.
       The reason is that it’s the most direct way to establish the
       credentials of a brand. And credentials are the collateral you
put up to guarantee the performance of your brand.
   Also, when you have leadership credentials, your prospect is
likely to believe almost anything you say about your brand. (Be-
cause you’re the leader.)

Leadership Psychology
Humans tend to equate bigness with success, status, and leadership.
We give respect and admiration to the biggest.

                                117
118   Leadership Is a Way to Differentiate

   In their book Mindwatching: Why We Behave the Way We Do,
(London: Prion/Carlton Publishing, 1997) psychologists Hans and
Michael Eysenck reported on a famous study.1
   A man named ‘‘Mr. England’’ was introduced to a number of
classes of college students in America. He was referred to as either
‘‘Mr. England, a student from Cambridge’’ or ‘‘Professor England
from Cambridge.’’
   Afterward, the students were asked to estimate the man’s height.
As Mr. England climbed in status from student to professor, he
gained 5 inches in the eyes of the students.
   Bigness also pays off in dollars and cents. A survey of male gradu-
ates of the University of Pittsburgh revealed that the tallest students
(6 feet 2 inches and over) received an average starting salary at least
12 percent higher than those who were under 6 feet.
   So it is in the world of business, where height is measured by sales
or market share.

Owning a Category
Powerful leaders can take ownership of the word that stands for the
category. You can test the validity of a leadership claim by a word
association test.
   If the given words are computer, copier, chocolate bar, and cola,
the four most associated words are IBM, Xerox, Hershey’s, and Coke.
   An astute leader will go one step further to solidify its posi-
tion. Heinz owns the word ketchup. But Heinz went on to iso-
late the most important ketchup attribute. ‘‘Slowest ketchup in
the West’’ is how the company is preempting the thickness at-
tribute. Owning the word slow helps Heinz maintain a 50 per-
cent market share.

Don’t Be Afraid to Brag
Despite all of the foregoing points about the power of being the
perceived leader, we continue to come across leaders who don’t
                                           Don’t Be Afraid to Brag   119

want to talk about their leadership. Their response about avoiding
this claim to what is rightfully theirs is often the same: We don’t
want to brag.
   Well, a leader who doesn’t brag is the best thing that can hap-
pen to its competition. When you’ve clawed your way to the top
of the mountain, you had better plant your flag and take some
pictures.
   And besides, you can often find a nice way to express your leader-
ship. One of our favorite leadership slogans does just that: ‘‘Fidelity
Investments. Where 12 million investors put their trust.’’
   If you don’t take credit for your achievement, the one right be-
hind you will find a way to claim what is rightfully yours.
   If you doubt this, consider the following saga.

Two Leaders from Brazil
For years, the two big beers in Brazil were Antarctica and Brahma.
Antarctica was number one and Brahma was a close-behind number
two.
   Then Brahma started an advertising campaign claiming leader-
ship (a cerveja number one). They added point-of-sale hands with
the index finger symbolizing number one. But here’s the surprise.
When they started this, Antarctica was still the leader but no one
knew it because they had not planted their flag of leadership.
   When the dust settled, guess who moved into first place? You’re
right. Brahma is now number one. The reason: When people
thought that they weren’t drinking the leading beer, they quickly
shifted to Brahma and what started out as an untruth became the
truth.
   The moral: While people love underdogs, they buy the overdogs.
   But there is a happy ending to this story because Antarctica and
Brahma have now merged their companies. They can now say they
both are number one.
120   Leadership Is a Way to Differentiate

Our Kind of Leader
Hertz is not shy about being the leader. They are a classic example
of how to keep a market leadership story fresh and meaningful over
the years.
    Today, the message is ‘‘Hertz, and not exactly.’’ Says Brian
Kennedy, Hertz’s executive vice president of marketing and sales,
‘‘The underlying premise of the ‘Not exactly’ ads is to distinguish us
from the competition.’’2
    This is the latest in a long line of different ways that Hertz has
expressed its leadership. At the dawn of the car rental business, it
was people flying though the air and ‘‘Let Hertz put you in the driv-
er’s seat.’’
    With the company clearly established as number one, they got
busy adding services: ‘‘The biggest should do more. It’s only right.’’
    By 1975, O. J. Simpson started racing through airports. He was
‘‘the superstar in rent-a-car.’’ So was Hertz.
    Later variations of that idea included ‘‘the number one way to
rent a car’’ and ‘‘where winners rent.’’
    As Hertz took aim at vacation travelers as well as the business
renter, the theme evolved into ‘‘number one for everyone’’ and
‘‘America’s wheels.’’
    Pretty monotonous, huh? Decades of selling America an idea it
loves: leadership.
    So monotonous that today Hertz has U.S. revenues of $2.3 bil-
lion, a fleet of 500,000 vehicles in 140 countries, and a market share
of 30 percent.
    Who’s the world’s largest car rental company? Exactly.

Different Forms of Leadership
Leadership comes in many flavors, any of which can be an effective
way to differentiate yourself. Here’s a quick sampling of different
ways to leadership:
                                     Different Forms of Leadership   121

 Sales leadership: The most often used strategy by leaders is pro-
  nouncing how well they sell. The Toyota Camry is the best-
  selling car in America. But others can claim their own sales
  leadership by carefully counting in different ways. Lincoln is
  the top-selling luxury car. Chrysler’s Dodge Caravan is the
  top-selling minivan. The Ford Explorer is the top sport utility
  vehicle. This approach works because people tend to buy what
  others buy.
 Technology leadership: Some companies with long histories of
  technological breakthroughs can use this form of leadership as
  a differentiator. In Austria, a rayon fiber manufacturer called
  Lenzing isn’t the sales leader but they are the ‘‘world’s leader in
  viscose fiber technology.’’ They pioneered many of the industry
  breakthroughs in new and improved rayon. In Cincinnati, a
  machinery manufacturer called Milacron is one of the ‘‘world’s
  leaders in manufacturing technology.’’ They have the widest
  array of plastic machines and cutting tool technologies. This
  type of leadership works because people are impressed with
  companies that develop new technologies. (They figure they
  know more.)
 Science leadership: This is a variation on technology leader-
  ship. Some companies are the science leaders in their re-
  spective categories. Gore-tex is membrane science. 3M is
  adhesive science. Linear Technology in the science of
  power management semiconductors. Edwards Lifescience is
  heart valves. One of our favorites is Corning, a company
  that could easily claim to be the world’s leader in the sci-
  ence of glass. (They actually have a museum of glass in
  Corning, New York.)
     When you consider that they own Steuben glass and cur-
  rently enjoy 58 percent of liquid crystal display glass used
  in today’s flat screen television sets, they have an enormous
  set of credentials.
122   Leadership Is a Way to Differentiate

Leadership Is a Platform
Leadership is a wonderful platform from which to tell the story of
how you got to be number one. As we said earlier, people will be-
lieve whatever you say if they perceive you as a leader.
   Consider the story of Dreyer’s Grand ice cream. This is a com-
pany that has two brands: Dreyer’s, which is west of the Rockies,
and Edy’s, which is east of the Rockies. (They were named after
their two founders, William Dreyer and Joseph Edy.)
   These two brands have made the company America’s leading ice
cream maker, which is their sales leadership differentiating idea.
   But what also makes them unique, and in great measure what has
made them number one, is their direct delivery to stores. Unlike
their major competitors, they own a fleet of refrigerated trucks
manned by experts who deliver and place the ice cream in retail
stores. This process bypasses the usual distributor freezers, and thus
ensures a fresher product. (Freezers are the natural enemy of ice
cream.) Their philosophy: It takes great care to make a great ice
cream.
   Their leadership story, coupled with their direct delivery story,
makes a compelling and logical argument as to why they make
‘‘America’s favorite ice cream.’’ (A measure of their success is that
they were bought by Unilever for a lot of money.)

The Strength of Leadership
What makes a company strong is not the product or the service. It’s
the position it owns in the mind. The strength of Titleist Golf Balls
is in its leadership position, not in how far you can hit them. It’s
easier to stay on top than to get there.
    Can you name a company that has overturned a leader? Crest did
it in toothpaste thanks to the American Dental Association’s seal of
approval. (Ironically, Colgate has regained the lead with its germ-
killing Total toothpaste.) Duracell did it in batteries, thanks to
                                             The Leading Lollipop?   123

‘‘alkaline.’’ Budweiser did it in beer, and Marlboro did it in ciga-
rettes. But it rarely happens.
    A survey of 25 leading brands from the year 1923 proves this
point. Today, 21 of those brands are still in first place. Three are in
second place, and one is in fifth place.
    Even changes in rank don’t happen very often. If marketing were
a horse race, it would be a deadly dull affair. In the 56 years since
World War II, there has been only one change in position in the
top three U.S. automobile companies.
    In 1950, Ford Motor Company moved past Chrysler Corporation
into second place. Since then the order has been General Motors,
Ford, and Chrysler all the way. Monotonous, isn’t it? (That is until
Toyota made its presence known.)
    The ‘‘stickiness’’ of a marketing race, the tendency for companies
or brands to remain in the same position year after year, also under-
scores the importance of securing a good position in the first place.
Improving your position might be difficult, but once you do, it be-
comes relatively easy to maintain that new position.
    When you do get on top, make sure the marketplace knows it.
Too many companies take their leadership for granted and never
exploit it. All this does is keep the door open for competition. If
you get the chance, slam the door in your competition’s face.

The Leading Lollipop?
Every category has a leader, but not every leader is known. Consider
the lowly lollipop. You’ve seen them all your life, but if we asked
you who makes the best-selling lollipop in the world, you probably
wouldn’t have a clue.
   Now, if we told you that one lollipop company sells twice as
much as its closest competitor, you’d be a little impressed. The fact
that this company sells its lollipops in 170 countries would impress
you a little more. The fact that they produce over 20 million lolli-
pops a day and their yearly production will circle the globe 12 times
will impress you a lot more.
124   Leadership Is a Way to Differentiate

   And when we finally tell you about their popularity with young
and old kids alike, you probably will say to yourself, ‘‘They must
make one hell of a lollipop. I should try one.’’
   The name of the one to try is Chupa Chups, the world’s favorite
lollipop. You’ll find them in Barcelona, Spain.
   See what a difference a little leadership can make?
                         C H A P T E R

                                14

             Heritage Is a
          Differentiating Idea

I
    n Chapter 10, we discussed the fact that minds are insecure.
    And any strategy that helps people overcome their insecurities
    is a good one.
   Heritage has the power to make your product stand out. It can be
a powerful differentiating idea because there appears to be a natural
psychological importance in having a long history, one that makes
people secure in their choice.
   When we started to study why this is so, we assumed that being
around a long time suggested that a company knew what they were
doing. People figured that they must have been doing something
right.
   But unlike countries such as China and Japan, where elders are
given the utmost respect, our culture tends to have an abhorrence

                                125
126   Heritage Is a Differentiating Idea

of old age. Everybody wants to be young. Old and wise means out of
it and passé.

The Psychology of Heritage
When we asked Dr. Carol Moog why heritage is meaningful, this
consumer psychologist made the following observations:
  The psychological importance of heritage may derive from the
  power of being a participant in a continuous line that connects and
  bonds one to the right to be alive, to a history that one carries for-
  ward from the living past, through death and on into the next gener-
  ation. The link is a link to immortality. Without a sense of heritage,
  of known ancestors, people are vulnerable to feeling isolated, aban-
  doned, emotionally cut off, and ungrounded. Without a line from
  the past, it is difficult to believe in a line to the future.
     The emphasis on heritage, then, is on continuity, on one’s defeat
  of death by remaining part of the flow. Embracing companies and
  products with this kind of lineage allows people to participate in
  these powerful links to a continuous life. When traditions are passed
  down, they are imbued with the life of ancestors. Continuity is incor-
  porated, ingested. People become larger; life goes on. When entities,
  such as companies, have their heritage swallowed up or obliterated,
  they literally break a trust bond, abandon people who have counted
  on that link, generate passivity, and create emotional numbing. Dis-
  trust, cynicism, and detachment clearly do not stimulate sales.1

  There you go, everything you wanted to know about heritage but
were afraid to ask.

A Substitute for Leadership
Another way to look at this approach is to recognize that being
around a long time also gives prospects the feeling that they are
dealing with an industry leader. If not the biggest, they certainly are
a leader in longevity.
                                          Bringing Heritage Forward   127

   It’s no wonder that marketers display their tradition and culture
as a way of telling you why they are different.
   As early as 1919, a Steinway piano was described in an advertise-
ment as ‘‘the instrument of the immortals.’’
   More recently, Cross trumpeted its pens as ‘‘flawless classics,
since 1846.’’
   Sotheby’s, the famous auction house, goes one century better by
proclaiming its founding in 1744.
   Glenlivet Scotch positions itself as ‘‘the father of all Scotch. His
Majesty’s Government bestowed on the Glenlivet Distillery the
very first license under the Act of 1823 to distill single malt whiskey
in the Highlands.’’
   Budweiser has, from time to time, talked about their heritage as
‘‘America’s classic lager since 1876.’’ (That sure is a lot better than
lizards talking about frogs.)
   Some of these brands are leaders in their category. Some aren’t.
But they all sound very impressive and different.

Bringing Heritage Forward
But tradition isn’t always enough, says an Associated Press business
writer. ‘‘Companies of all stripes have spent recent years devising
new marketing tactics that blend consumer-comforting tradition
with the progressiveness that’s crucial to continued success.’’2
   Wells Fargo Bank, of Pony Express and stagecoach beginnings,
could take its original idea and makes it relevant by simply stating,
‘‘Fast then. Fast now.’’ The difference is that today’s stagecoaches
travel at the speed of light via advanced computer networks.
   L.L.Bean jazzes up its catalog, goes online, and introduces wom-
en’s clothing—while carefully maintaining its New England image.
Says a company spokesman, ‘‘You take the classic appeal and you
take it to another generation.’’
   The continued success of Tabasco in the pepper sauce business is
an example of the balance between honoring your heritage and
looking forward.
128    Heritage Is a Differentiating Idea

    Its advertising strikes traditional themes such as down-home
Louisiana bayous and pepper mash aged in oak barrels. But the com-
pany also presents itself as with-it and trendy, with Tabasco neck-
ties, Cajun-cooking festivals, and new Tabasco-laced drinks that
originate in rural Louisiana oyster bars.
    One popular drink is the prairie fire, which combines a shot of
Tequila with a splash of Tabasco.
    ‘‘There are all sorts of balancing acts needed in marketing,’’ says
company president, Paul C. P. McIlhenny.
    ‘‘American history is full of stories of companies that could not
adjust to changing markets,’’ says Robert Sobel, a professor emeritus
of business history at Hofstra University. ‘‘The danger is when the
company president says, ‘My father came up with this product and
it’s a monument to his memory and we’re not going to get rid of it as
long as I’m here.’ And of course, he’s not there four years later. If
you’re wedded to the past, you’re going to fail.’’3 (Unless you make
the past relevant.)

Heritage in Politics and Law
Consider the instant success of George W. Bush as a candidate for
president. He was the ‘‘compassionate Conservative’’ from Texas.
Just what is a compassionate Conservative? Well, no one was quite
sure.
   What they were sure of was that George W. had a presidential
heritage. (He even looks like his ex-president father.) He started off
with a heritage that made him different from the other candidates.
Unfortunately, we discovered that was all he brought to the job.
   The law firms of RisCasi & Davis and Trantolo & Trantolo—
based in New England—are two strong examples of heritage market-
ing in this category. Both firms have strong ties to past generations
and use those ties effectively to differentiate themselves from the
competition. Trantolo & Trantolo has been particularly effective—
using advertising that speaks to the ‘‘first’’ Trantolo’s immigrant roots
and his protection of immigrant families with little power of their
                                              DDB Tries to Double Back     129

own. The law firm’s positioning draws on both historical positions—
long service to the community and serving the less powerful—using
the idea of ‘‘fighting for the little guy’’ as their link to that heritage.

Doubling Back on Heritage
It’s never too late to tell your heritage story. Such is the case of
Franzia, one of America’s best-selling brands of wine. It’s a wine
that is sold ‘‘on tap’’ in a 5-liter box. It’s also a wine with an amazing
and little-known heritage about the wine industry in America.
    Here’s the heritage story that you can find on the side of the box:

                 Teresa Franzia: The Little Lady That
                 Pioneered America’s Wine Business
  While just 4 ft. 10 in. tall, this lady from Italy played a very large role
  in what has become a very big business.
      She arrived in San Francisco in 1900 and settled on a farm in Cal-
  ifornia’s Central Valley. She and her family started growing grapes on
  rich, sandy loam soil that even today is the best for miles around.
      After prohibition was repealed, Teresa made a decision to make
  wine from her grapes. She borrowed $10,000 from A. P. Giovanni,
  the founder of Bank of America to begin the winery. She loaned half
  of this to her daughter and her husband Ernest Gallo.
      The rest is history. With that beginning, she became the pioneer
  of America’s wine business. The Franzia business and that of her son-
  in-law, Ernest Gallo, today represent over 50 percent of all the wine
  made in this country.
      That story turns an ordinary table wine into a very special table
  wine with a unique heritage.
      The moral: It’s never too late to tell your life history. (But only if
  it’s an interesting one.)

DDB Tries to Double Back
DDB Worldwide Communications is a large advertising agency that
is the successor agency to Doyle Dane Bernbach, the organization
130   Heritage Is a Differentiating Idea

that many claim invented modern advertising. (We discussed Bill
Bernbach in Chapter 6.)
   Doyle Dane was founded in 1949. DDB capitalized on its fiftieth
anniversary as a way to burnish its reputation and stand out from
myriad competition.
   As reported in the New York Times, agency head Keith Reinhard
stated, ‘‘We’re trying to reclaim the Bernbach legacy. The Doyle
Dane heritage represents a brand equity we should leverage.’’
   While trying to double back on that heritage is a nice idea, it
won’t cover up the basic problem that this heritage belongs to a
name that’s long gone. As one of the creative alumni said in that
same article, ‘‘A horrible mistake was made when they changed the
name after the merger. It was like changing the name of Coca-
Cola.’’4
   It’s too late, Keith. Bill Bernbach’s heritage has been buried with
his agency’s name.

Updating Heritage
There are times when you have to change to survive. Consider the
case of the fabled Greenbrier, the 222-year-old resort hotel in West
Virginia.
   They are looking to add a casino in hopes of keeping the A-list
vacationers coming. The gambling hall will be remodeled after
Monte Carlo’s lavish Hôtel Hermitage.
   The hotel’s president, Ted Kleisner, says that the Greenbrier
must add the casino to stay competitive or risk ending up ‘‘just an-
other grande dame.’’

Locational Heritage
An important aspect of heritage is where you come from.
  If you’re selling vodka and you come from Russia, you certainly
have a nice story to tell.
                                                  Locational Heritage   131

   If you’re selling computers and you come from the United States,
you have a big advantage.
   If you’re selling cars and you come from Yugoslavia, you’ve got
problems. (The Yugo was doomed.)
   The reason why where you come from is so important is that
countries can be differentiated by products.
   That’s because, over the years, countries have become well known
for certain products. As a result, the country of origin affords a prod-
uct a certain set of credentials. If it’s from there, it must be good. Or,
conversely, if it’s from there, it must be bad. Here’s a quick list of
countries and what products they give locational heritage:

         United States             Computers and airplanes
         Japan                     Automobiles and electronics
         Germany                   Engineering and beer
         Switzerland               Banking and watches
         Italy                     Design and clothing
         France                    Wine and perfume
         United Kingdom            Royalty and racing cars
         Russia                    Vodka and caviar
         Argentina                 Beef and leather
         New Zealand               Lamb and kiwis
         Australia                 Crocodile Dundee

  The trick here is to avoid the Yugo trap, or coming from a place
that not only doesn’t help your efforts, but hurts them.

High-Tech from Argentina?
Such was the case of a high-tech product whose heritage was from a
country known for steaks, not semiconductors.
   The company is called Multiscan and they make a laser bar-code
reading device. In fact, they were on their way to building a leader-
ship position in this type of scanning device.
132   Heritage Is a Differentiating Idea

   Our advice was to use their leadership in laser bar-code reading
devices as their differentiator. But we questioned whether people
would believe that a high-tech leader could be from Argentina.
Luckily, the company had an office in the United States, and they
were willing to disguise their origin.
   Multiscan moved its headquarters from Argentina to the United
States. Now they had the right heritage and, to go with it, what has
proven to be a very successful high-tech export business.

Anticompetitor Heritage
There are times when you can use your competitors’ heritage
against them. That was the case many years ago when Stolichnaya
ran an ad that said:
  Most American vodkas look Russian.
  Stolichnaya is different. It is Russian.

   But when Stolichnaya stopped using its heritage as a differentia-
tor, Absolut took over the lead in high-end vodka. Common sense
and history point to the fact that the only strategy that Stolichnaya
should pursue is that of heritage.
   They should take advantage of a little-known fact: Absolut is
made by a Swedish vodka company.
   They should reposition Absolut where it belongs, in Sweden,
while they take advantage of their own Russian heritage. The ad-
vertisement they should run would have the headline:

  Absolut Sweden versus Absolute Russian.

   Swedish vodka just doesn’t sound as good as Russian vodka.
Everyone knows that Russian vodka is the real thing.
   And consider the looming battle between Procter & Gamble
and Wal-Mart as the giant retailer is launching a private-label
laundry soap called Sam’s American Choice to compete with
Tide.
                                                  Family Heritage   133

   While Procter & Gamble doesn’t seem too concerned about a
soap that’s priced 25 to 30 percent lower, they might get ready to
unleash the news that Wal-Mart’s soap is made by Huish Deter-
gents, Inc.
   Would you trust your wash to a company called Huish? Not
likely.

A French Success
L’Oréal is a French cosmetic giant that uses locational heritage in a
way that has produced a decade of double-digit growth.
   Its secret is to use heritage as a way of conveying the allure of
different cultures through its many products. Whether it’s selling
Italian elegance, New York street smarts, or French beauty through
its brands, L’Oréal reaches out to a vast range of people across in-
comes and cultures.
   As BusinessWeek magazine reports, ‘‘While many companies seek
to homogenize their brands to make them palatable in myriad cul-
tures, CEO Owen-Jones has taken L’Oréal’s products in the oppo-
site direction. He wants them to embody their country of origin,
turning what many marketing gurus consider a narrowing factor in-
to a marketing virtue.’’5
   While L’Oréal’s Maybelline might be a ho-hum brand in the
United States, in Shanghai the fact that it comes from America
makes it very trendy. (And very different.)

Family Heritage
In a world that’s seeing the big get bigger, an effective way to sepa-
rate yourself from the striving herd is to stay a family business.
While taxes and ensuing generations don’t always make this easy, it
can be a powerful concept if the family can be held together.
   People appear to feel more kindly toward a family-run business as
opposed to a cold, impersonal public corporation that’s beholden to
a bunch of greedy stockholders. Family members can be just as
134    Heritage Is a Differentiating Idea

greedy. But, because what goes on is never reported, all that greed is
kept behind closed doors.
   A family business is also believed to be more involved with their
product than with their stock price. They also are given higher
marks for community involvement because they tend to be natives
of the town where the company was founded. We’ve also discovered
that a family business tends to treat their employees more like fam-
ily. There’s a feeling of having grown up together.
   No company exemplifies this more than a billion-dollar family
company called Rich’s Frozen Foods. Their family ownership is a
unique difference. That, coupled with size, makes them a counter-
point to the large, impersonal corporations that make up their main
competition.
   They dramatized this difference by stating that we ‘‘care for our
customers like only a family can.’’
   They also make the point that in today’s competitive world, a
family company is in a better position to serve their customers. The
simple reasons: They don’t have to worry about stockholders, earn-
ings, and Wall Street. All their energies go into their products.
   Now that is a very nice, logical argument explaining why their
family heritage makes them not only different but better.

A Heritage Landmark
A local family retail business can become an important part of a
community. Such is the story of the Troast Vision & Hearing Cen-
ter in Ridgewood, New Jersey, a suburb of New York City.
   The family patriarch, Robert C. Troast, a former National Opti-
cian of the Year, explains it this way, ‘‘When I started the business, I
never dreamed it would become a family business. My main concern
was to provide quality care to my neighbors. Now, 47 years later,
we’re practically a landmark. There’s something special about being
part of a community. A lot of my patients and I go way back. Many
times when someone new walks in, I already know the parents, the
                                                   The Character   135

aunts and uncles, the cousins. In some cases, our kids grew up to-
gether and now I’m seeing the grandchildren.’’
   Speaking of kids, his son Ron and daughter-in-law Karen now
run the family business. They’re active in the Chamber of Com-
merce, in the church, in the Little League.
   All of which sure makes them very different. And they’re doing
nicely, thank you, in the shadow of the superstores in the nearby
malls.

The Character
An interesting way to exploit a brand’s heritage is with the charac-
ter that made the brand famous in the first place.
   The Jolly Green Giant. Colonel Sanders for Kentucky Fried
Chicken. Charlie the tuna for Star-Kist. The characters make these
brands different.
   It’s no wonder that many of these personalities are being dusted
off and returned to duty. The Jolly Green Giant has been awakened
and is back pushing canned and frozen vegetables. And Planters’
Mr. Peanut has returned as a dignified pitchman with a link to the
past.
   As David Yale, the general manager of Planters, reported in the
New York Times, ‘‘The character has become a leverage point to
talk about the quality, the taste and fun that separates us from other
nuts.’’6
   A schoolboy created Mr. Peanut in 1916. Bringing him back cap-
italizes on nostalgia among older shoppers and the trend for ‘‘retro
chic’’ styles among the young.
   Everything old is not only new again, but different.
                         C H A P T E R

                                15

        Market Specialty Is a
        Differentiating Idea

P
        eople are impressed with those who concentrate on a specific
        activity or product. They perceive them as experts. And as
        experts, they tend to give them more knowledge and experi-
ence then they sometimes deserve. This isn’t surprising when you
consider the definition of expert: One having much training and
knowledge in some special field.
   Conversely, the generalist is rarely given expertise in many fields
of endeavor no matter how good he or she may be. Common sense
tells the prospect that a single person or company cannot be expert
in everything.

                                137
138    Market Specialty Is a Differentiating Idea

A Lesson Learned
Many years ago at General Electric we learned the power of the spe-
cialist over the generalist.
    At the time, General Electric was launching a concept called the
‘‘turnkey power plant.’’ The concept was simple. General Electric
would go to an electric utility with their ability to put all the pieces
together. At the end of the process, they would give the utility the
keys to the completed plant. (A one-stop shopping concept.)
    Nice idea, right? Wrong.
    The utility said, ‘‘Thank you very much. We’ll give you the tur-
bine generators; other specialists will get the controls, switch gear,
et cetera.’’
    Even though it was General Electric, the inventor of electricity,
the utilities wanted the best of the breed: the specialists.

Another Lesson Learned
Well, General Electric figured, those utility guys think they know
everything. Let’s go to the lady of the house and offer her a ‘‘GE
kitchen.’’
   It was no different. The lady of the house said, ‘‘Thank you very
much. We’ll give you the refrigerator; KitchenAid gets the dish-
washer, Maytag the washing machine, et cetera.’’
   Even though it was General Electric, the big kahuna in appli-
ances, the lady of the house wanted the best of the breed: the
specialists.

Big Names Are Weak
Generalists like General Electric, though their names are big, are
weak in the market.
  Consider a big food name like Kraft. When that name is taken
out against specialist brand names, nothing good happens. In
                                           The Same Goes for Retail   139

mayonnaise, Hellmann’s trounces them. In jellies, Smuckers kills
them. In mustard, French’s annihilates them. In yogurt, Dannon de-
stroys them.
   Lucky for Kraft they have some specialist brands of their own. In
fact, Kraft’s biggest brand is one that few people recognize as a Kraft
product. It’s Philadelphia brand cream cheese. Even though ‘‘Kraft’’
is on the package, people don’t even see it. To most, it’s all about
those little cheesemakers in Philadelphia.

The Same Goes for Retail
Take the retail industry. Which retailers are in trouble today? The
department stores. And what’s a department store? A place that
sells everything. That’s a recipe for disaster because it’s very hard to
differentiate an ‘‘everything’’ place.
   Campeau, L. J. Hooker, and Gimbel’s all wound up in bankruptcy
court. Hills department stores filed for bankruptcy. Macy’s, the
worlds’ largest department store, filed for bankruptcy. While some
department stores have emerged intact, it indicates how tough the
world is becoming for this kind of store.
   Interstate Department Stores also went bankrupt. So the
company looked at the books and decided to focus on the only
product it made money on: toys. As long as Interstate was going
to focus on toys, it decided to change its name to Toys ‘‘R’’ Us.
Today Toys ‘‘R’’ Us does 20 percent of the retail toy business in
the country.
   As we wrote earlier, many retail chains are successfully pattern-
ing themselves on the Toys ‘‘R’’ Us formula: a narrow focus with in-
depth stock. Staples and Blockbuster Video are examples.
   In the retail field generally, the big successes are the specialists:

   The Limited: Upscale clothing for working women
   The Gap: Casual clothing for the young at heart
   Benetton: Wool and cotton clothing for young swingers
140   Market Specialty Is a Differentiating Idea

   Victoria’s Secret: Sexy undergarments
   Foot Locker: Athletic shoes
   Banana Republic: Upmarket casual wear

   (When a clothing chain with a name like Banana Republic can
be successful, you know we live in the age of the specialist.)

The Specialist Has Weapons
Since differentiation takes place in the mind, specialists have weap-
ons they can use to preempt their specialty in the mind.
   They can focus on one product, one benefit, and one message.
Such was the case in the battery business when Duracell focused on
alkaline batteries only. Eveready, the generalist, had this type of
battery in their lineup but they didn’t specialize.
   Duracell grabbed a brilliant name, preempted the ‘‘long-lasting’’
attribute, and ran off with their business. Even Eveready’s Energizer
bunny couldn’t slow down the specialist, who now is the leader with
45 percent of the business. (In the latest numbers, even third-place
Ray-O-Vac is making gains on the bunny.)

Becoming the Expert
The specialist has a chance to nail down an expertise as a
differentiator.
   In the business of environmental consulting, there are a lot of
players, big and small, all of whom are doing pretty much the same
thing. A company in Boston called ENSR has come up with a
unique expertise: environmental due diligence.
   In other words, when an international real estate or business
transaction takes place, this company offers to use its global resour-
ces to evaluate the environmental aspects of the deal. That spe-
cialty not only differentiates them from their competitors, but sets
                                                 Becoming Generic   141

them up to come back and solve the problems their work has
uncovered.

A Publisher’s Dream
Unless you’re an automobile buff, you’ve probably never heard of a
monthly magazine called Hemmings Motor News. But this may be
the ultimate specialist success in publishing, where expertise in a
given field is the Holy Grail.
    Hemmings sells 265,000 copies a month. It grosses $20 million a
year. A typical issue runs 800 pages and is crammed with 20,000
advertisements, offering everything from a wheel bearing set for a
Model T Ford (yours for $55) to a 1932 Rolls-Royce Henley road-
ster (a steal at $650,000).
    The bulk of the magazine consists of small black-and-white clas-
sified ads, prepaid by check or credit card. The editorial content is
miniscule. The sales department is miniscule.
    Terry Ehrich, the owner of one of publishing’s great cash cows,
says the magazine has ridden the popularity of car collecting and
car restoring.
    ‘‘I’m just a mediocre jockey on a helluva horse,’’ he says.1 A horse
that happens to be a helluva specialist idea.

Becoming Generic
The ultimate weapon for a specialist, as discussed earlier, is to be-
come generic. This is where your brand name represents the product
as well as the category.
   Gatorade is a very powerful specialist that has reached that level
in sports drinks.
   While it’s not easy to become a Xerox in copiers or a Scotch in
tapes, the specialist has a chance to hit what is the highest level in
brand success.
142   Market Specialty Is a Differentiating Idea

Now the Bad News
A successful specialist has to stay specialized. You can’t begin to
chase other business, because you’ll begin to erode your perceptions
of being a specialist. (More on this in Chapter 20.)
   Heart surgeons know this instinctively. They don’t decide to go
after knee replacements just because they’ve become big business.
   Most marketers don’t like to be locked into one business or spe-
cialty. They want to be as many things as they can. What they don’t
realize is that as soon as they head out to be something else, they
open the door for another company to become the specialist. Heinz
was a specialist in pickles. Then they became a ketchup. Now they
are just about out of a pickle business dominated by Vlasic and Mt.
Olive.
   Volkswagen was once the specialist in small cars. Then they
went big, fast, and recreational. Today, the Japanese dominate this
business.
   Scott was America’s number one tissue, but then became a raft of
different paper products. Now Charmin is the leader in tissue.

Beware of the CEO’s Hobby
Magna International is a specialist that is a major supplier of parts
to the world’s top automakers. They have clients the likes of Chrys-
ler, Ford, Jeep, Dodge, Chevrolet, Mercedes, and Cadillac. Their
sales are around $6 billion per annum. They are at the forefront of a
trend in the automotive industry that has suppliers delivering in-
creasingly larger and more complex parts, such as entire seating
systems.
   But their chairman, Frank Stronach, is also an avid horse-racing
fan who owns hundreds of horses. So it’s not totally surprising that
the company suddenly picks up some decidedly noncore assets such
as California’s Santa Anita racetrack. (That’s a horse of a different
specialty.) Other tracks are under discussion.
                                               Too Many Specialists   143

  Now he wants to move from auto parts to racetracks and sports-
gambling operations. Well, it’s also not surprising that a lot of
shareholders aren’t very happy.
  Our bet: nothing but trouble.

Tell It Like It Is
Don’t make the assumption that everyone knows who the specialist
is in a category. One of the things we advise is to position yourself as
‘‘the specialist in (whatever).’’
    People want to know this information because they want to
know who is the expert in a business. And if that’s all you do, make
sure they know it’s all you do.
    Such was the case with Subaru, a Japanese car company that was
having its problems. When George Muller became president in
1993, he asked, ‘‘What are we good at?’’ and ‘‘What’s our persona?’’
The answer was, ‘‘The technology of all-wheel drive.’’
    Right then and there, he decided to focus on that specialty and,
as he said, ‘‘We made a commitment to sell only all-wheel drive to
differentiate ourselves from Toyota and Honda.’’
    And in their advertising, they proudly announce that they don’t
make cars, they specialize in nothing but four-wheel-drive vehicles.
It’s a move that has turned around a me-too car company that was
headed over a sales cliff. (Sales were down by 60 percent from their
peak.)
    They didn’t die because they used a specialty to differentiate
themselves.

Too Many Specialists
Sometimes just being a specialist isn’t enough. Especially if you’re
surrounded by other specialists.
   On the Internet, in a matter of months, you can have an army of
specialists in one form of information or another jockeying for their
share of ‘‘hits’’ on their web site.
144   Market Specialty Is a Differentiating Idea

   The reason you can have so many is the low cost of entry on the
Internet But the rules of the road still persist. One will emerge as
the perceived leader thus attracting the most traffic. Then you’ll
have an alternative or strong number two with about half the hits.
Then, maybe a number three that has half again the traffic that puts
them in a precarious position. After that, the pickings are very slim.
   The bottom line: Whether it’s products, services, or web sites,
most categories come down to a two-horse race. So the trick is to be
one of those horses.
                         C H A P T E R

                                16

            Preference Is a
          Differentiating Idea

O
        ur experience is that people don’t know what they want.
        (So why ask them?) More times than not, people buy what
        they think they should have. They’re sort of like sheep, fol-
lowing the herd.
   Do most people really need a four-wheel-drive vehicle? (No.) If
they did, why didn’t they become popular years ago? (Not
fashionable.)
   The main reason for this kind of behavior is insecurity, a subject
about which many scientists have written extensively.

                                145
146    Preference Is a Differentiating Idea

Following the Herd
Robert Cialdini wrote one of the most interesting pieces on why
people follow the herd. He talks of ‘‘the principle of social proof’’ as
a potent weapon of influence:

  This principle states that we determine what is correct by finding out
  what other people think is correct. The principle applies especially
  to the way we decide what constitutes correct behavior. We view a
  behavior as correct in a given situation to the degree that we see
  others performing it.
      The tendency to see an action as appropriate when others are
  doing it works quite well normally. As a rule, we will make fewer
  mistakes by acting in accord with social evidence than by acting
  contrary to it. Usually, when a lot of people are doing something, it
  is the right thing to do.1

Social Proof
Supplying ‘‘what other people think is correct’’ is what using ‘‘pref-
erence’’ is all about. And what makes preference a very workable
strategy is that it comes in many flavors.
   Tylenol, the number one pain reliever in America, built its busi-
ness around the fact that it’s the pain reliever hospitals prefer.
   Nike, the number one athletic shoe, has built a lot of business
around the fact that a lot of famous athletes prefer to use their
sneaker. (Because they paid them.)
   Lexus, a hot luxury vehicle, built its business around J.D. Powers
surveys on customer satisfaction preferences.
   Midwest Express Airlines promotes its highest preference rating
by Condé Nast Traveler.
   Science Diet, a premium-priced dog and cat food, is ‘‘Veterinar-
ian recommended’’ and ‘‘The No. 1 choice of veterinarians world-
wide to feed their own pets.’’
                                                 The Beer in Chile   147

   People, institutions, media reports, studies—you name it and
companies use it. If it smacks of authenticity, it has a chance to sep-
arate you from your competition.
   ‘‘Separating’’ is a big problem on the Internet, where it’s easy to
get overwhelmed by all the choices.

The Rain in Britain
Nobody knows more about umbrellas than the British.
  And what’s the best of the breed in Britain?
  It’s arguably the Brigg umbrella, which has been awarded the
Royal Warrant as umbrella supplier to the Prince of Wales.
  The cachet of swinging the same umbrella as both Prince Charles
and The Avengers’ John Steed will cost you. The Brigg sells for be-
tween $200 and $800, depending on your choice of materials.
  While most people realize that the royals don’t know very much
about umbrellas, they do know they can afford the best.
  And that’s good enough for them.

The Beer in Chile
The Heineken organization built a modern brewery in Chile and
introduced a brand of beer called Becker. Their strategy was to bring
a high level of quality at more affordable prices, similar to the local
market leader, Cristal.
   As you would suspect, their market entry was met with fierce re-
sistance from the local brewery. But when the dust settled, research
indicated that higher-income consumers preferred the Becker
brand. People who appreciate an international quality beer. People
who can afford any beer.
   Our advice was to use this preference as a way to differentiate
with this upmarket segment as well as those who aspire to be part of
this group.
148    Preference Is a Differentiating Idea

   This preference was expressed in a simple way: Becker was ‘‘pre-
ferred by people who can taste the difference.’’
   And who doesn’t think they can taste the difference?

No Preference Overlooked
Charles Schwab unleashed what could be called the ultimate prefer-
ence strategy in an effort to clarify all the claims as to who was the
real number one online broker. In a three-page ad in the Wall Street
Journal they quoted their number one rating by the following inde-
pendent authorities:

   Money magazine rated Schwab.com tops overall with the best
      online rating—citing ‘‘ease of use’’ and ‘‘products and tools’’ as
      its two five-star standouts. Money also placed Schwab number
      one for mainstream investors and wealthy investors.
   Smart Money magazine rated Schwab number one for online
      trading and said, ‘‘Schwab simply covered more bases than any
      competitor.’’
   PC World selected Schwab as a 1999 World-Class Award win-
      ner in the Best Web Brokerage Site category, and noted,
      ‘‘Charles Schwab is the undisputed king of online brokers.’’
   CIO named the Charles Schwab Corporation as a winner in its
      CIO 100 awards, acknowledging the value of building and stren-
      gthening relationships with ‘‘customers through technology.’’
   Financial Net News selected Schwab overall as 1998 Financial
      Web Site of the Year.
   PC Magazine awarded Schwab excellent ratings in customer
      support, reporting, and research.

   If that wasn’t enough, then they wheeled in their number one
ratings by independent investors:

   More online investors: Over 2.5 million investors choose
      Schwab to help them invest online.
                                           A Legitimate Preference   149

   More online trades: Day after day, Schwab handles more online
    trades than any other broker.
   More online assets.

   By the time Schwab was finished, there was no doubt who was
the most preferred online broker. In fact, people were afraid to even
bring up the subject.

A Questionable Preference
The flip side of the Schwab story can be found in the hamburger
wars.
   It’s an effort that Burger King unfurled to support its famous
Whopper when they ran a national television program that claimed
the Whopper was ‘‘America’s favorite burger.’’
   The basis for this claim wasn’t sales. McDonald’s, with twice as
many stores, obviously sells more Big Macs. The basis was a piece of
research they sponsored where 700 phone calls were placed around
the country and people were asked, ‘‘Which one hamburger is your
favorite?’’
   The Whopper was mentioned most often. (They claim 33
percent.)
   When your competitor outsells you and your research isn’t a well-
known independent source and only a third say you’re the favorite,
we question whether there is enough here on which to build a pref-
erence strategy.
   Even the New York Times questioned this strategy. The opening
line in an advertising column discussing the program read: ‘‘Is
Burger King telling us a Whopper?’’

A Legitimate Preference
That ‘‘Whopper’’ raises an important point about preferences.
  ‘‘What other people think is correct’’—the principle of social
proof—gets even stronger when your claim stands up to scrutiny.
The more legitimate it is, the better.
150    Preference Is a Differentiating Idea

   If you’re commissioning your own poll, spend the extra bucks to
have a topflight outfit ask the questions.
   If you’re citing someone else’s surveys, make sure their reputation
means something. (J.D. Power and Zagat’s are perfect examples.)
   If no one has ever surveyed your particular field, try to convince
an industry publication to do it. It’s a good news story for them, and
a potentially great preference story for the winner.
   Advertising legend David Ogilvy understood the power of the
press in that regard. ‘‘Roughly six times as many people read the
average article as the average advertisement,’’ he said. ‘‘Editors
communicate better than ad men.’’

Getting the Nod from J.D. Power
Spotlighted in the lobby of the Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, New
Jersey, is something very unhospital-like: A gleaming trophy from
J.D. Power and Associates proclaiming a ‘‘Distinguished Hospital
Program.’’
   J.D. Power achieved fame as an independent analyst for the ex-
cellence of automobile brands, later airlines and others. Now it also
studies hospitals (for a hefty fee) to examine patients’ experience
with admissions, nursing and tests and treatment personnel, the
management of their care by physicians, the hospital environment
(such as the physical comfort of the rooms and food), and the dis-
charge process.
   Valley Hospital was the first hospital in the tristate region to win
this award, which resulted in a public relations windfall. It’s now
won three years in a row. The results of this outside endorsement
have been dramatic:

   An upsurge in employee morale
   Gains in awareness and preference among prospective patients
   The majority of patients reporting ‘‘more’’ or ‘‘much more’’
      trust and confidence
                                            Preference in Sneakers   151

   As one hospital official told us, ‘‘Because the J.D. Power brand is
so well known, this both validates and guarantees the consistency of
our patient experience.’’

An Ethical Preference
In some businesses, it’s awkward to aggressively promote yourself.
Physicians and group medical practices, for instance, would rather
not turn their doctors into salesmen.
   But patients don’t have the sophistication to make complicated
medical decisions. (It’s hard enough to decide on a Lexus or a Mer-
cedes.) So how are you supposed to wade through the tyranny of
choice and pick the right professional?
   Once again, ‘‘what other people think’’ can carry the day. It even
gets high praise from people who worry about things like doctors
advertising.
   An ethicist named Randy Cohen described ‘‘a better way to meet
the admirable goal of helping patients choose a physician.’’ His pre-
scription: ‘‘Doctors’ medical techniques could be rated by a neutral
party, much as the Barron’s guides rate colleges. Or patient’s opin-
ions of bedside could be correlated into a kind of physician Zagat’s.
Neither puts the doctor in an ethically awkward position.’’2

Preference in Sneakers
Nike has built its reputation and business by spending a great deal
of money on athlete and team ‘‘partnerships.’’ As mentioned in
Chapter 6, they have about 4,000 athletes running around in just
about every kind of big-time sport in every corner of the world—
from Michael Jordan to Tiger Woods to Mia Hamm to Roger
Federer, from 13 major U.S. colleges to 3 national rugby teams to
20 national football and soccer teams. If they’re a big name in
sports, you probably find a swoosh somewhere on their body.
152   Preference Is a Differentiating Idea

   Their preference strategy can be summed up as ‘‘What the
world’s best athletes wear.’’
   Brooks Sports is also in the athletic shoe market. And while Nike
was having some financial setbacks, Brooks has been showing some
very nice financial footwork with big sales gains.
   Their preference angle is with serious runners. The only people
who get their shoes for free are 200 competing runners. While peo-
ple like Regina Joyce and John Sence aren’t household names, they
are icons within the running community.
   Brooks spends a tiny $750,000 a year on advertising in niche pub-
lications such as Runners World and Running Times. (Nike spends
more producing just one of their flashy commercials.)
   The moral: If you can’t get everyone to prefer you, find a group
that will.

The Spirit of Emulation
Long ago, Stanley Resor, one of the founders of J. Walter Thomp-
son Co. advertising, talked about preference in terms of emulation.
He said, ‘‘We want to copy those whom we deem superior in taste or
knowledge or experience.’’3
   Once upon a time, European opera stars testified to the beneficial
effect Lucky Strike had on their singing. (They sure would sing a
different song today.)
   Camel cigarettes actually ran an ad that proudly proclaimed
that ‘‘more doctors smoke Camels than any other cigarette.’’ (Yes,
Virginia, that’s a real ad.)
   The queen of Romania said she entrusted her beauty to Pond’s
cold cream, and her ad in Ladies Home Journal pulled 9,400 coupon
replies. (Not to be outdone by a foreigner, an ad featuring Mrs.
Reginald Vanderbilt drew 10,300 replies.)
   ‘‘Nine out of ten screen stars,’’ proclaimed a 1927 ad, ‘‘care for
their skin with Lux toilet soap.’’
                                              China Loves Heroes   153

   Later that same year, emulation got overworked. In a single issue
of a popular magazine, an actress named Constance Talmadge en-
dorsed eight different products, from inner tubes to alarm clocks.
   Today movie stars have been replaced with athletes who can be
found endorsing everything from milk to banks to aluminum siding.
They are today’s heroic figures.

The Importance of ‘‘Fit’’
Celebrities in Japan and China can make a difference for whatever
product is being sold. In the United States, there has to be a natural
fit or you’re wasting a lot of money. People are more sophisticated
and aren’t that impressed with a well-known name. It has to make
sense.
    Using the late actor Robert Mitchum as a spokesperson for ‘‘tie-
less’’ garbage bags was silly. (Inside joke: He never wore a tie.)
    Using James Garner and Cybill Shepherd to help sell beef was a
disaster. James ended up with heart trouble and Cybill turned out to
like veggies more than red meat.
    Catherine Deneuve for Chanel. Michael Jordan for Nike. Paul
Hogan for the Subaru Outback. They are perfect. Steve Young for
milk? We’re not so sure.

China Loves Heroes
As we said, whether they fit or not, heroes can mean everything
when marketing in China. Local companies now link well-known
persons or characters to their advertising displays to differentiate
their products from other brands. The Haomen Brewery in Beijing,
for example, used a photo of the brewery’s president standing with
President Clinton for a display in the Wangfujing shopping district.
   And, needless to say, powerful figures like the Marlboro man,
Mickey Mouse, and Tiger Woods are already in residence.
154   Preference Is a Differentiating Idea

China Loves Cognac
The Chinese now account for one-fourth of global cognac sales. Its
success is based on strong links to modern-day heroes called ty-
coons. Expensive imported cognac has been positioned as a ‘‘social
marker,’’ a liquor consumed by China’s newly rich.
   Aware of the desire of many middle-class Chinese to emulate a
tycoonlike lifestyle, Joseph E. Seagram & Sons Inc. introduced
Martell Noblige, a midpriced cognac aimed at a new generation of
consumers in France, China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. Just days
after the brand was launched, it had become a house brand in more
than 60 clubs in China.
   People want to drink what the big boys prefer to drink.

An Exercise in Hotel Preference
Just for fun, let’s construct a preference strategy for one of the
swanky hotel chains. There are two players to consider: The Ritz-
Carlton, with 63 luxury hotels and resorts in 21 countries; and the
Four Seasons, with 70 properties in 30 countries.
   Condé Nast Traveler magazine, which is geared to affluent travel-
ers, polled 28,000 readers for their 2006 ‘‘Gold List.’’ For hotels in
the United States, Ritz-Carlton landed 24 hotels on that luxe list.
Four Seasons had 18.
   Then, Business Travel News polled 600 corporate travel managers
and business travel agents, using a dozen attributes to measure per-
formance and satisfaction. Ritz-Carlton came out on top, slightly
ahead of Four Seasons, with a score of 8.65 versus 8.51. The maga-
zine also noted that the Ritz has scored the highest for six straight
years.
   It’s a close call, but we give the nod to the Ritz-Carlton. They are
the most preferred by the pickiest people. They should build a pro-
gram around being the top choice of people who can afford to stay
anywhere they want to stay. The Ritz is ‘‘the best of the best.’’
                         C H A P T E R

                                17

     How a Product Is Made
           Can Be a
      Differentiating Idea

C
        ompanies tend to work very hard in developing new prod-
        ucts. Hordes of engineers, designers, and manufacturing people
        spend endless hours producing and testing what they feel is a
unique product that does its job better than anything in the market.
   But all that work is often taken for granted by the marketing folks
who get swept away in their own activities such as advertising,
packaging, and promotion.
   We’re great believers in digging into a product to find out exactly
how it works. More times than not we find a powerful differentiat-
ing idea that has been ignored.

                                155
156   How a Product Is Made Can Be a Differentiating Idea

The Magic Ingredient
Many products contain a piece of technology or a design that makes
it function. Often, this technology is patented. Yet marketing peo-
ple tend to dismiss these elements as too complex or too confusing
to explain to people. They would rather conduct research and focus
on the benefits or the lifestyle experience of the product. Their fa-
vorite speech goes like this: ‘‘People don’t care how it’s made. They
only care about what it does for them.’’
    The problem with that point of view is that in many categories, a
number of products do the same things for people. All toothpastes
prevent cavities. All new cars drive nicely. All detergents clean
clothes. It’s how they are made that often makes them different.
    This is why we like to focus on the product and locate that unique
piece of technology. Then, if possible, we give that design element a
name and package it as a magic ingredient that makes the product
different. And if it’s a patented magic ingredient, all the better.
    When Crest introduced their fluoride cavity prevention tooth-
paste, they made sure everyone knew it contained ‘‘Fluoristan.’’ Did
anyone understand what that was? Nope. Did it matter? Nope. It
just sounded impressive.
    When Sony started its dominance in television, it made a fuss
about ‘‘Trinitron.’’ Did anyone understand what it was? Nope. Did
it matter? Nope. It just sounded impressive.
    General Motors has probably spent over $100 million promoting
the Northstar system in the Cadillac. Does anyone understand how
this engine works? Nope. Does it matter? Nope. It just sounds
impressive.
    Magic ingredients don’t have to be explained because they are
magic.

High-Tech Ingredients
The more complex a product, the more you need a magic ingredient
to differentiate it from its competitors.
                                          Dramatize the Difference   157

   Silicon Graphics pioneered three-dimensional or visual comput-
ing workstations. These were amazing but very complex machines.
We discovered that what made all those visuals work was a unique
piece of technology called a geometry engine. We convinced them
to take this design element and make it front and center in their
marketing programs. It’s what made their visual computing work-
stations not only better but different.
   AccuRay is an Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) company that makes
quality control systems for the paper industry. Their new system en-
abled a company to monitor the full sheet of paper as it was being
produced. Any imperfections were instantly spotted, which enabled
the technicians to quickly make corrections, thus dramatically re-
ducing waste. The benefit of maximum visibility was obvious, but
we wanted to know how this all worked. We discovered they had a
magic ingredient, which we called a ‘‘patented prism technology.’’
Did anyone understand what it was? Nope. Did it matter? Nope. It
just sounded very impressive. It’s what made their quality control
system not only better but different.

Dramatize the Difference
When you’ve got it, flaunt it.
   If you come up with an innovation, make sure you dramatize it.
Such was the case of Cordis, which is a Johnson & Johnson com-
pany that makes cardiology diagnostic devices.
   One of Cordis’s most popular (and profitable) product lines for
the past six years has been the Brite Tip guiding catheters. Their
brilliantly named Brite Tip is a patented, flexible-tip design. It al-
lows cardiologists to easily ‘‘visualize’’ the distal (far) end of the
catheter so when they anchor it in the artery that will be getting a
stent or a balloon angioplasty procedure, they can ‘‘see’’ exactly
where the tip is.
   Prior to this, they had to best guess, thus many artery openings
were damaged in the process.
158   How a Product Is Made Can Be a Differentiating Idea

   The product’s differentiating feature—the Brite Tip—was a
manufacturing marvel that has now been copied by almost everyone
in the industry. Yet Brite Tip still commands 60 percent of market
share although there are at least seven other competitors out there.
(That’s probably because they’ve become a generic brand name.)

Product Innovation
Some product ideas aren’t buried and aren’t magic. If you’ve got a
new wrinkle, you should make it the cornerstone of how you posi-
tion the product.
   Dove bar soap has been the number one soap in North America
for years. Its success and its difference are right on the package
underneath the brand name: moisturizing lotion. The fact that it’s
made with moisturizing lotion sets up the benefit of better skin care.
But the difference is the lotion in the soap.
   A lot of skis promise that you can ski better on that slippery stuff
called snow. But one brand developed an innovation that really sets
up that benefit of control. The brand is Dynastar and they have
what they call a ‘‘unique pintail design.’’ They combine product in-
novation with benefit when they say, ‘‘Pintail technology for pin-
point control.’’ Now you have a set of skis with a difference.
   DiGiorno Pizza came up with a way to counter the reheating
problem of frozen pizza. (It gets cooked twice.) The dough in their
pizza has never risen or been cooked. So when you put it in the
oven, it actually cooks for the first time. The just-cooked taste puts
it on a par with pizzeria pizza. Now you have a frozen pizza with a
difference.

System Innovation
There are opportunities to be different by coming up with some-
thing that connects to your product or is part of the system.
                                          Making It the Right Way   159

    Black & Decker did just that with its VersaPak innovation. This
was a rechargeable battery for use in a number of different tools.
They even developed a major program to demonstrate this new and
different product by sending VersaPak vans around the country so
customers could try out cordless tools with this new technology.
    The Granite Rock Company of Watsonville, California, was sell-
ing rock and sand to local contractors. (Not a lot of difference in
these kinds of products.) Renting trucks to move large quantities of
construction materials can cost a dollar or more a minute, so time
was important.
    To speed things up, the company developed an automated load-
ing system similar to an ATM machine. It accepted an identifica-
tion card, released the materials, and printed a receipt. They called
it the GraniteXpress system and reduced loading time from 24 mi-
nutes to 7 minutes.
    Now that is a difference when it comes to buying gravel or sand.

Making It the Right Way
Often, there is a wrong way and a right way to make a product. The
wrong or less desirable way is often introduced as a money-saving
process. Consultants like to call this ‘‘improving manufacturing
practices’’ (translation: cutting costs). The right way absorbs the
higher costs so as to produce a better product.
   There are times, if an industry is going the wrong way, when
you can be different by going the right way. Such is the case of
Stanislaus Food Products. They have become the leading manufac-
turer of tomato sauce for a large number of America’s Italian restau-
rants. And they’ve accomplished this while charging higher prices.
Their strategy was to not follow the industry into concentrated
tomato sauce (which is cheaper and easier to ship).
   Dino Cortopassi, the owner of the company, felt that fresh-
packed sauce, which was never put through the concentrate pro-
cess, was a better way to make this product. It costs more but it
tastes better.
160   How a Product Is Made Can Be a Differentiating Idea

   That’s his difference. And much to his competitors’ dismay, most
of the real Italian restaurants in America agree with him.

A Better-Made Pizza
One person who feels that Dino’s way of making sauce is the right
way is John Schnatter, the CEO and founder of Papa John’s Pizza.
   He started using Dino’s sauce when he was making pizzas in his
father’s tavern. He continued to use it, despite its higher cost, as he
started to build a chain called Papa John’s. And because the other
big chains use the not-as-good concentrate tomato sauce, John was
able to differentiate his pizza by explaining how his pizza was made.
The message was very direct: Better ingredients, better pizza.
   Today John has over 3,000 stores. That ‘‘how his pizza was made’’
difference has made Papa John’s the most successful pizza chain in
America.

Making It Square
There is no better product story than that of White Castle. It’s the
country’s first fast-food hamburger chain and has become an Ameri-
can icon. White Castle sells their square, palm-size burgers (also
known as sliders) in more than 330 restaurants in the Eastern and
Midwestern United States.
   Little has changed in their 70-odd-year history, from their sliders
to their castle-shaped buildings. In fact, the grandson of the
cofounder is the CEO.
   Their carefully cultivated product strategy has outlasted count-
less competitors. The result is that they have developed an almost
cultlike following that carries on from generation to generation.
They even freeze their sliders and ship them to supermarkets in
areas where they have no stores.
   Their results are amazing. On a per unit basis, they are outsold
only by McDonald’s. It’s a prime example of ‘‘steady as she goes.’’
                                           Giving Up the Old Way   161

Making It the Old-Fashioned Way
A similar story comes from Aron Streit Inc., the last independent
matzo company. (For those who aren’t sure, matzo is the authentic,
unleavened, unsalted, and uneverything-else cracker that kept the
Israelites alive on their flight from Egypt.)
   Even though the company has only a small share of a market
dominated by B. Manischewitz, the Streit’s Matzo folks realize
that ‘‘tradition’’ is just about all that distinguishes one matzo from
another. Despite all the trendy outsourcing for many of its other
products, Streit’s still makes their matzos on Rivington Street in
lower Manhattan—the same place the company has made them
since 1914.
   If you read Streit’s promotional material, you’ll discover that the
company knows what the difference is all about. Here’s how Streit’s
puts it: ‘‘Why is Streit’s Matzo different from other domestic matzo
brands? Because Streit’s bakes only Streit’s Matzo in our own ovens.’’
   They still make their matzo the old-fashioned way.

Giving Up the Old Way
The opposite of the Streit’s story is the story of a big ketchup brand
in Venezuela called Pampero.
    By the time we were called in, Del Monte and Heinz had nudged
it from its number one position. Pampero was in a decline. What
was needed was a differentiating-quality idea beyond its current
claims of ‘‘redder’’ or ‘‘better.’’
    Why is it better? What do you do to your tomatoes? After some
prodding, what emerged was the fact that Pampero removes the skin
so as to enhance the flavor and color. It was something their big
competitors did not do in their manufacturing process.
    Now that’s an interesting idea. Pampero could exploit this ‘‘with-
out the skins’’ perception of quality and taste.
    When we told them that this was the best and only way to re-
build their brand’s perception, Pampero became very upset. It seems
162   How a Product Is Made Can Be a Differentiating Idea

the company was in the midst of changing to a money-saving auto-
mated process that didn’t remove the skins (à la Del Monte and
Heinz). Pampero didn’t want to hear about doing things the old-
fashioned way.
    Our recommendation was to stop the modernization plans, as
‘‘skins off’’ was the differentiating idea. Doing things like your big-
ger competitors is how to get killed in the wars out there.

Charge a Little More
If you have a ‘‘better-made’’ story, you’ve got the basis to charge a
little more for your product. That’s what Dino Cortopassi did for his
tomato sauce. That also communicates to your customers that your
competitors are doing things the cheap way.
    That’s exactly what Fresh Samantha is doing in the very mature
fruit juice category. The secret to their growing share in this market
is to take fresh fruits and vegetables and run them through massive
juicers. The result is very expensive, separately packaged fruit
drinks. Are they really better than other juice products? Probably
not. But America’s health-conscious consumer tends to think so. It
just goes to show that sometimes the way you make a product can be
a way to say you’re special.

Handmade in Malaysia
Nothing is as special as making it by hand.
    Not too long a drive out of Kuala Lumpur is the factory that
makes Royal Selangor. This is a company that makes what many
feel is the finest pewter in the world.
    A tour of the factory shows you what makes it different. All of it
is crafted with great care by hand.
    When something is handcrafted (or claims to be), people have a
sense that what they’re buying is like art. To the customer, it makes
                                        Environments That Help Heal   163

no difference that the people making these products earn very little.
To them, they are artisans who take great care and skill in produc-
ing these products.
   Even if a machine can craft a better product, if it’s done by hu-
man beings, people feel that it’s worth more and it’s better.
   The ultimate lawn mower is a machine called Locke. Used at the
Vatican, Yankee Stadium, and the White House, it bills itself as
being built by hand. (They also send you a bill for $2,500.)
   So if you have a chance to talk about anything that’s handmade
in your product, just do it.

Environments That Help Heal
When you design and build a hospital in ways that are conducive to
health, you can actually transform an institution that frightens
many people into one that is supportive and nurturing.
    According to a number of studies, good hospital design welcomes
the patient and family, reduces stress, helps people find their way
around, engages the senses, and connects to nature and beauty.1
    How do you make a hospital friendly and healthy? It starts with
first impressions: Valet parking, free parking, and shuttles from re-
mote parking lots. The lobby should have greeters, music, and flow-
ers. Public spaces should have glass doors and accent lighting. Paint
colors can be cheerful, instead of ugly. (Cheerful colors cost the
same as ugly colors.)
    Courtyards, rooftop gardens, and terraces bring the outside world
into this stressful environment. Waiting areas should have natural
light, artwork, fountains, and fish tanks. (But no blaring TVs.)
Nurses’ stations should be open and accessible. Small kitchens on
patient floors let families bring their own food and make decisions
in a ‘‘family meal’’ environment.
    If you think all this is wishful thinking, please visit Griffin Hospi-
tal in the industrial city of Derby, Connecticut. This hospital ad-
mits 12,000 patients annually, serves 140,000 outpatients annually,
164   How a Product Is Made Can Be a Differentiating Idea

and it boasts every ‘‘how it’s made’’ feature we just described. Physi-
cian and nurses applaud its design. Patient satisfaction ratings aver-
age 98 percent. And it’s the only hospital in America to have been
included every year since 1999 in the annual Fortune magazine
rankings of the ‘‘100 Best Companies to Work For.’’

Caskets That Are Different
Batesville is the number one casket maker in America. And no one
works harder at being different.
   Only Batesville offers ‘‘cathodic protection’’ on their metal cas-
kets. This is the same science that protects the Alaskan pipeline
and ships from the ravages of corrosion.
   They also offer ‘‘Monoseal,’’ which is a system that keeps caskets
from leaking. If you can believe it, each casket is vacuum tested for
possible leaks. (That’s impressive when you consider how easy it is
for them to bury their mistakes.)
   They cap all this off by offering a warranty that guarantees some
caskets up to 75 years.
   When Aunt Miriam is buried in a Batesville, her family knows
they are burying her in the best and she will be protected from the
elements.

Crackers That Are Different
Everyone has grown up with animal crackers. For almost 100 years,
Barnum’s Animals, the sweet crackers shaped like circus animals,
have been a mainstay of Nabisco.
  Their unique bright-red-train-car-of-a-box and cracker shapes
have been a year-in-and-year-out success despite the fact that little
has been done to support this brand over the years.
  That’s right—no television, no print, no radio. Yet, it’s one of
the most familiar brands and products in the category.
  It’s a testimony of how a difference can be all in the making.
                         C H A P T E R

                                18

  Being the Latest Can Be a
     Differentiating Idea

I
    n this high-tech, rapidly changing world, people have become
    accustomed to the ‘‘next generation’’ of products. It’s not only
    anticipated, but expected.
  Rather than try to be better, we advise companies to try to be
next. That’s a sure way to be different.
  The psychology is obvious. No one is comfortable buying what
could be perceived as an obsolete product. So the way to leapfrog
your competition is to position yourself as what’s new and better
(with emphasis on the new).

                               165
166    Being the Latest Can Be a Differentiating Idea

Making Yourself Obsolete
For years we have preached that strong leaders attack themselves
with next-generation products. No one has done this better than
Intel.
    Their march of microprocessors has been a marvel to behold (see
Table 18.1).
    They dominated the sophisticated chip business by constantly in-
troducing the next generation at the expense of their existing mi-
croprocessors. That way no competitor has been able to mount an
attack, even on price. (Yes, that’s a lower price, but it’s a lower price
on an obsolete chip.)
    Gillette’s strategy of introducing the next generation of razor blade
is also an example of using this approach to dominate a market.
    The same goes for General Electric and its efforts to improve the
humble lightbulb. Their latest example is a bulb called Enrich. This

              Table 18.1 Intel’s Microprocessors (1974
              through 2007)
           1974                              The 8080
           1982                              The 286
           1985                              The 386
           1989                              The 486
           1993                              Pentium
           1995                              Pentium Pro
           1997                              Pentium II
           1998                              Pentium II Xeon
           1999                              Pentium III
           1999                              Celeron
           2000                              Pentium III Xeon
           2001                              Itanium
           2002                              Pentium 4
           2003                              Pentium M
           2004                              Pentium 4E
           2007                              Core 2 Quad
                                                  A Ski Boot Saga   167

unique blue glass bulb brings out the vibrant colors in furnishings
and decorations by heightening color contrast.

A Ski Boot Saga
Unlike microprocessors, new generations of ski boots don’t come
along very often. And when they do, it has to be something dramat-
ic to get people out of the old and into the latest. (After all, they’ve
broken them in.)
   For those of you who aren’t big skiers, Lange is the leading high-
performance boot. It’s what most professional skiers wear. (A prefer-
ence differentiator.) But as with automobiles, there are a number of
other high-performance boots from which to choose, several of
which are perceived as more comfortable.
   In what can only be described as a flat market at best, to take
business from these boot makers required more than just a new fea-
ture. It required a new generation of boot that was more than high
performance. (How many skiers race?)
   What was needed was a development that made Lange the next
generation of boot that would give them a chance to target the en-
tire upmarket segment of ski boots.

A Safety Development
The engineers at Lange started working on a way to solve the 300
percent increase in the number of knee injuries in skiing. In analyz-
ing the problem, they discovered that while skiing was safer than
ever, falling backward was the culprit because the boot firmly held
the skier’s foot on the ski, thus causing strain and injury to the knee.
   To solve the problem, they came up with a ‘‘rear-release system’’
that, when the skier falls backward, automatically loosens the back
of the boot, taking the strain off the knee.
   Rather than introduce this as just another feature, we recom-
mended that they introduce this as ‘‘a new generation of ski boot
168   Being the Latest Can Be a Differentiating Idea

that helps protect your knees.’’ What’s nice about this concept is
that it’s broader than high performance. While not everybody races,
everyone has a pair of knees.
   This new development has only continued their long history of
technological developments in ski boots. In 1970, they pioneered
the first boot to help protect against ankle injuries. Now, 30 years
later, they are pioneering the first boot to help protect against knee
injuries. This reinforces their credentials of technological
leadership.
   A boot that protects your knees sure is a different kind of boot.

The Battle over Acid Stomachs
The drug industry are the masters of next generation. Consider the
power of being the latest in the battle for the stomach.
   The histamine 2 receptor antagonists (H2RAs) revolutionized
the treatment of ulcers and other acid-related diseases when they
became available in the mid-1970s. Patients finally had a medica-
tion that could heal ulcers, and the need for ulcer surgery plum-
meted. Tagamet, the first H2RA, generated $1 billion a year in
sales at its peak. It was eventually eclipsed by Zantac, which consis-
tently boasted between $2 billion and $3 billion a year in sales.
Healthy profits were also enjoyed by the two other H2RAs that the
FDA approved in the late 1980s, Pepcid and Axid.
   In 1993, the next generation of acid-reducing drugs, the proton
pump inhibitors (PPIs), made their U.S. debut with Prilosec.
H2RAs and PPIs suppress acid secretion by different mechanisms:
The H2RAs block the actions of histamine at the receptors on the
gastric cells that line the stomach, while the PPIs decrease the pro-
duction of acid by deactivating the so-called acid pump inside the
gastric cells.
   The therapeutic advantages of PPIs over the H2RAs are im-
proved acid suppression and less frequent administration. Early pro-
motional campaigns for Prilosec focused on the drug’s mechanism of
action.
                                          Add Another Technology   169

   In 1996, just three years after its introduction in the United
States, Prilosec replaced Zantac as the market leader. By 1998, Pri-
losec had cornered 33 percent of the ulcer drug market and had be-
come the best-selling drug in the world, bringing in $3.98 billion in
worldwide sales.
   Now looming on the horizon is the discovery of the ulcer-causing
bacterium H. pylori that could shift therapy from acid suppressors to
antibiotics.
   In this business, you make hay while the sun shines on your
generation.

Break with the Past
The drug industry’s new generations have a natural separation be-
cause they are chemically different and usually work differently
within the body.
   It’s important that this ‘‘break’’ be established so as to convince
the prospect that this is indeed a new technology. The more the
separation, the easier the sale.
   This is what’s happening in the battle between microwaves and
conventional ovens (which the old-fashioned ovens won).
   Manufacturers of microwaves are launching a new assault, which
will overcome the cooking problems that surround microwave cook-
ing (inedible-looking and unevenly cooked food). They have a new
generation of microwaves that use an additional technology that
makes food crisp and brown: things like halogen lamps or hot air.
   But rather than call them ‘‘better microwaves,’’ they are calling
them ‘‘speed cookers.’’ They hope that this will create the needed
break with the past (and they sure do need a break).

Add Another Technology
What you’re seeing in the microwave battle is the strategy of adding
another technology as a way to create a new-generation product.
This is a very effective way to create a difference because people
170   Being the Latest Can Be a Differentiating Idea

will quickly see this as an improvement whether they understand it
or not. (Two technologies are better than one.)
   Milestone Scientific did just this when they added computer
technology to, of all things, the very simple hypodermic needle.
They created the Wand, which was billed as the first computer-
controlled injection system.
   The small computer is used to control and deliver the perfect
amount of anesthetic, which creates an almost painless injection.
(They even had a magic ingredient called SloFlo technology.)
   What was most dramatic was the fact that the thumb-controlled
hypodermic syringe hadn’t really changed much in 150 years. A
‘‘new generation’’ was long overdue.
   Dell Computer, the company that built its difference around
being ‘‘direct,’’ has added another technology. They are bundling in
Web services with their PCs. We call this ‘‘upping the ante’’ as a
way to maintain your difference.

Take Advantage of History
If there has been a history of change in a category and you have
been part of it, you should use that to your advantage. If you intro-
duced a prior ‘‘new generation,’’ you have enormous credentials to
use with your next-generation efforts.
   Such was the case with Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC),
which is now a part of Compaq. They had an opportunity to launch
the next generation of 64-bit computer architecture. Unfortunately,
they let the opportunity slip away, as did the future of the company.
   For those who missed some important computer history, when
the entire world was at 16-bit, DEC pioneered the 32-bit VMS op-
erating system and VAX architecture to become the world’s second-
largest computer company.
   So they had a chance to connect the 64-bit workstation to this
very successful 32-bit minicomputer. The trick was to take advant-
age of the fact that the experts said that no one needed 32-bit
                                  The Latest Doesn’t Always Work   171

machines when they arrived. (Wrong.) The same yawns were in
evidence when DEC’s 64-bit architecture was unveiled. DEC’s best
strategy would have been to raise the question: Will history repeat
itself? If it happened once in history, chances are it would happen
again.
   And in the computer world, if enough think it will happen, it
happens. DEC never made the effort to convince enough people
that the 64-bit will happen.

The Latest Doesn’t Always Work
Now for the bad news. There are some pitfalls in the next-generation
game that you must avoid at all costs. If you don’t, you could have
real problems. Here’s an outline of what to avoid:

   Don’t solve a nonexistent problem. Your next-generation product
    must solve a real problem, not one that’s unimportant. Dow
    Chemical introduced Dowtherm 209, a new antifreeze coolant
    that was billed as ‘‘doing no harm if it leaked into the crank-
    case’’ (and by the way, it cost twice as much as old-generation
    coolants). The trouble was that conventional coolants hardly
    ever leaked into the engine. Why pay twice as much for a non-
    existent problem? Most people didn’t.
   Don’t mess with tradition. There are real problems that people
    don’t want solved. They like the old-fashioned way. Nothing is
    as traditional as eating unshelled peanuts at the ballpark. Un-
    fortunately, everyone was up to their ankles in shells by the
    end of the game. To avoid the shell mess, Harry M. Stevens
    introduced preshelled peanuts in cellophane packages. People
    were outraged. Sales fell, complaints rose. Back to walking on
    shells.
   It must be better. Why go for the next thing if it isn’t a better
    thing? The U.S. mint brought out the Susan B. Anthony $1
    coin as a replacement for the $l bill. To the mint, it was a big
172    Being the Latest Can Be a Differentiating Idea

      improvement because they would save $50 million a year in
      printing and processing costs. To the public, there were no per-
      ceived benefits. It looked like a quarter and many thought it
      was ugly. Goodbye, Suzy.

The Latest Can Sneak Up on You
In The Innovator’s Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great
Firms to Fail, a gentleman from the Harvard Business School intro-
duces the concept of ‘‘disruptive technologies.’’1
   The point he makes is that new technologies often arrive as
wolves in sheep’s clothing. They don’t ever line up with your exist-
ing customers’ needs or Wall Street’s expectations of profit. They
don’t look like much, but once established they improve so quickly
that they become a mainstream technology that truly becomes the
next thing.
   DEC, king of minicomputers, ignored the PC because as a tech-
nology it wasn’t serious. It was a toy. Well, in not too many years
that toy put DEC out of business.
   Merrill Lynch was king of the hill with more and more sophisti-
cated services, while Charles Schwab picked off the least attractive
end of the market. Schwab has innovated to the extent that they
are barely recognizable as a discount broker.

What’s Next Should Be Different
The only antidote for disruptive technology appears to be a willing-
ness to set up or buy a completely independent organization to work
with this new technology. It could be an independent company or a
different brand.
   The mistake appears to be trying too hard to cling to the old
thing or trying to put the new thing into a company that only
knows and understands the old way.
   If Kodak feels that electronic cameras pose a threat to traditional
film, they shouldn’t try to absorb that technology into Kodak. That
                                   What’s Next Should Be Different   173

should be a different company and a different brand. Then let the
new organization attack the old one.
   A decade ago, a pioneering bank went to Canada to see whether
a bank with no branches, no ATMs, no checkbooks, and no mini-
mum balances could survive. (Now that’s different.)
   It not only survived, it prospered. So the Dutch financial con-
glomerate known as ING launched ‘‘ING Direct’’ in eight more
countries. In the United States, ING Direct is now the largest Inter-
net bank, with more than half of its $90 billion in online deposits.
   Without a single branch, ING Direct became the 24th largest
bank of any kind in the United States. As of mid-2007, it had 5
million accountholders, with 100,000 more signing up each month.
   With no bricks and mortar, this upstart can afford to pay 4.5 per-
cent interest on a savings account. (The average U.S. bank pays less
than 1 percent.) When you keep things simple and inexpensive, you
offer one type of checking, one type of savings account, and just two
types of mortgages: A 5-year and a 7-year.
   Why no 30-year mortgages? ING Direct’s CEO argues that since
most people move or refinance within seven years, they just don’t
need it.2
   It’s that kind of different thinking that has kept ING Direct
ahead of the web-only bank offerings from Citibank, HSBC,
Capitol One, and E-Trade—all of whom offer their own no-fee,
no-minimum-balance accounts with above-average interest rates.
                         C H A P T E R

                                19

          Hotness Is a Way to
             Differentiate

W
          hen you’re hot, the world should know you’re hot. As you
          read in Chapter 16, people are like sheep. That’s why they
          love to know what’s hot and what’s not. It’s also why word-
of-mouth is such a powerful force in marketing. That word-of-mouth
is usually one person telling another person what’s hot. This is im-
portant, for while America loves underdogs, people bet the winners.

Afraid to Boast
Unfortunately, many companies are shy about telling about their
success. First they say that boasting isn’t nice. It’s pushy. It’s bad
manners. But what’s really behind this reluctance is a fear that they
won’t stay hot forever. And then what? Won’t they be embarrassed?

                                175
176    Hotness Is a Way to Differentiate

   What we try to explain is that getting a company or product off
the ground is like launching a satellite. What you often need is
some early thrust to get you into orbit. Once you’re in orbit, it’s a
different game.
   Being hot or experiencing sales growth beyond that of your com-
petitors can give you the thrust you need to get your brand up to alti-
tude. Once there, you figure out something else to keep you there.

Corbett Canyon: A Case in Point
To better understand this process, let’s go to the world of wine,
where differentiation is no easy task.
   It’s the story of Corbett Canyon, a wine that comes from the
coastal canyons in central California. It’s a wine that, for openers,
selected a uniquely shaped bottle that stands out in the sea of wine
you are faced with as you enter a retail store. That was the first
difference.
   Next, they created a unique radio commercial that used a canyon
echo device to make the name more memorable (Canyon, Canyon,
Canyon). A unique bottle, a memorable radio commercial, a popu-
lar price, and the wine took off. Quickly they became the fastest-
growing wine in America.
   The final step was to announce this via their radio program. The
natural way to do this is to have a couple discuss what brand is the
fastest-growing and to name competitors as guesses. Then you give a
‘‘hint, hint, hint.’’ Of course the answer is obvious. It’s the wine that
comes from those ‘‘canyons, canyons, canyons’’ in central California,
a place where wonderful wine can be produced.
   Now they have a differentiating idea that could put them in orbit.

Executing a Shift
We must admit that the ‘‘canyon’’ strategy we just developed was a
hypothetical exercise. You can’t stay hot forever, so you have to get
ready to shift your strategy once your momentum slows. In the case
                                             Many Ways to Be Hot   177

of Corbett Canyon, they will have to find a way to explain their
success. Whether it’s canyons, taste awards, value, or something.
   The beauty of a ‘‘hotness’’ strategy is that it sets up a long-term
differentiating idea. The marketplace has been primed to believe the
story behind your success. Without this last effort, instead of reaching
orbit you can fall back and burn-up in the competitive atmosphere.

Hot Chicken
Sometimes trends can make you hot. Such is the case with Ameri-
ca’s taste buds, which, thanks to the success of Mexican food, are
ready for more heat. So spicy chicken is a hot new product category.
   Popeyes Chicken serves up Cajun-style fried chicken that is zes-
ty, to say the least. ‘‘We’re out to save America from bland chick-
en,’’ say their TV commercials.
   Popeyes’ $12 million ad budget is puny compared to its giant com-
petitor, the Colonel. But its mouth-watering taste is a red-hot point
of difference—enough to drive them past Church’s and Chick-Fil-A
into the second sales slot in chicken restaurants behind KFC.
   All Popeyes should add to their recipe is the fact that they are
moving up on KFC, the king of bland chicken. Most people know
that Popeyes chicken is hot. Now they should be made aware of the
fact that their sales are hot as well.

Many Ways to Be Hot
When you’re using a ‘‘hotness’’ strategy, you have the opportunity
to define why you’re hot. What many don’t realize is that there are
many ways to structure that definition. Here’s a roundup of the most
popular ways:

   Sales: The most often used approach is your sales versus your
     competitors’ sales. But don’t think it has to be annual sales. It
     can be any time period you choose: six months, two years, five
178    Hotness Is a Way to Differentiate

      years. The time you choose to measure is the one that makes
      you look best. Remember that you are free to pick the parame-
      ters. Also, you don’t have to compare yourself to your compet-
      itors. You can compare yourself to yourself.
   Industry ratings: Most industries have annual ratings for per-
      formance. They could be industry magazines like Restaurant
      News or consumer magazines such as U.S. News & World
      Report or organizations like J.D. Power. If you win ratings from
      one of these, use them as aggressively as possible.
   Industry experts: Some industries have experts or critics who are
      often quoted or write columns. This is especially true in the high-
      tech world, where you have an Esther Tyson or the Gartner
      Group. Sometimes you can use their quotes or reports as a way
      to define your success. Hollywood uses this device to establish a
      hot movie, as does the publishing world for a hot book.

Every Way to Be Hot
An advertisement for Fortune magazine is the epitome of using
‘‘hot’’ as a differentiator. This ad used just about every way to be hot
that Fortune could put into a full page in the New York Times.1
   They had quotes from industry and business magazines. They had
quotes from newspapers. They had a quote from a customer. They
had four kinds of sales figures. Then they ended the advertisement
with a non-tag line: ‘‘Fortune. Hotter than ever.’’
   Does the reader know how well BusinessWeek or Forbes are doing?
Nope. Does it matter? Nope. All they know is that Fortune seems
to be a hot magazine that must be doing something different.

The Press Can Make You Hot
While it’s helpful to blow your own horn, it’s even better if you can
get someone else to do it. This is where an aggressive public rela-
tions program can pay big dividends.
                                    The Press Can Cool You Down   179

   What’s afoot here is the fact that ‘‘third-party’’ credentials are
very powerful. Whether it’s your neighbor or your local newspaper,
people feel that these sources are unbiased. So when they say you’re
hot, you must indeed be hot.
   Creating a success in public relations is like throwing a rock
into a pond. The circles start small but spread throughout the pond.
You start with the experts, spread to the trade papers, and expand
out to the business and consumer press.
   An interview with the CEO of a high-tech Internet service com-
pany makes the point about the importance of the press.

The Press Can Cool You Down
Getting hot is one thing. Staying hot is another. Because ‘‘hotness’’
can be a tough act to sustain.
   Here are the 10 trendiest hotels in the world in 2007, according
to a swanky newsletter. They are on the cusp of fashion. They are
untraditional, sensual, modernist havens where the local stars, fa-
mous guests, and coolest people gather:

   1. SoHo Grand Hotel, New York City
   2. The Metropolitan, London
   3. Delano, Miami
   4. Palazzo Versace, Queensland, Australia
   5. Design Suites, Buenos Aires
   6. Grand Hyatt, Hong Kong
   7. Bel-Ami, Paris
   8. St. Paul Hotel, Montreal
   9. Chedi Muscat, Muscat, Oman
  10. Mondrian, Los Angeles

  Undeniably, these are ‘‘must’’ choices for the happening traveler.
But how trendy will they be in 2010, or in 2015?
180   Hotness Is a Way to Differentiate

  What’s hot today can be passé tomorrow. The press can make you
hot, then cool you down. Just ask Arsenio Hall.

How iPhone Got Hot
No one creates ‘‘Hotness’’ like Steve Jobs. He comes out on that
stage in his jeans and just dazzles the press. Nothing demonstrates
this like the introduction of the iPhone. Word-of-mouth was the
main vehicle and what they received was valued at $400 million
dollars.
    In Piper Jaffray’s annual team survey, more than 84 percent had
heard of the iPhone and 25 percent said they would pay $500 for it.
The only advertising repeated ‘‘Hello’’ 30 plus times by a variety of
film and TV stars from generations past and present. It was aired
only during the Oscars.
    Whether this product ever becomes a wild success à la the iPod is
still a question. But it sure did get a lot of press that made it seem
very hot.

Publicizing a Problem You’re Solving
An indirect way to use the press is to entice them to write about the
problem that you happen to be solving with your product or
company.
   If people perceive that you are indeed a part of the solution to a
big problem, they will indeed see you growing in importance. And
the press does like to write more about problems than successes (bad
news versus good news).
   Nothing dramatizes this like the success of Prius, Toyota’s new
hybrid car. People bought these fuel economical cars to show the
world that they are sensitive to these environmental problems. GM
was not high on this technology until the press overwhelmed them
about the problem and forced them into the me-too game.
                         C H A P T E R

                                20

        Growth Can Destroy
          Differentiation

I
     f there is one culprit in how brands lose their uniqueness, our
     vote goes to the concept of growth. The desire to constantly get
     bigger seems to be almost a reflex action. We suspect that’s be-
cause it’s at the heart of how people get rewarded. CEOs pursue
growth to ensure their tenures and increase their take-home pay.
Wall Street brokers pursue growth to ensure their reputations and
increase their take-home pay.
   But is it necessary? As economist Milton Friedman says, ‘‘We
don’t have a desperate need to grow. We have a desperate desire to
grow.’’
   In our view, two bad things happen when companies chase the
god of growth. First, they become distracted and miss the opportu-
nity to pour it on and preempt that differentiating idea, or to make
it bigger and better.

                                181
182    Growth Can Destroy Differentiation

Problem 1: Distraction
Earlier we wrote about Silicon Graphics and their leadership in
high-performance computers. But instead of pouring on the resour-
ces and preempting their ‘‘high-performance’’ differentiating idea,
they were under Wall Street pressure to broaden their business. To
those analysts, high-performance computing is a niche, and not up
to a 20 percent per annum growth. This led them into personal
computers (PCs) and the less-than-high-performance Microsoft
Windows NT operating system. None of these things helped very
much.
   When you’re the Porsche of computers, you don’t move into
cheaper computers. You dominate the high-performance business by
getting more customers to want high-performance computing. (After
all, what wealthy company wants low-performance computing?)

Problem 2: Line Extension
The other bad thing that happens is that in an effort to pursue ‘‘end-
less growth,’’ companies fall into what we call the line extension
trap. It’s typical megabrand thinking: you hang your brand on as
many related or even nonrelated categories as possible. It’s what we
call ‘‘inside’’ thinking about a successful brand and how to make it
bigger and better.
   Unfortunately, the only thinking that works in the marketplace
is the ‘‘outside’’ thinking that works in the mind of the prospect.
Consider what happened to these big companies:

   General Motors had five well-differentiated brands that repre-
      sented 50 percent of the U.S. business. Each brand, in an effort
      to grow, started to chase the same business. They ended up
      priced alike and looking alike. The five undifferentiated brands
      now represent 28 percent of the business.
   Nabisco had a runaway hit with its SnackWell’s devil’s food
      cookies. They quickly added other types, as well as toaster
                                                   ESPN everything?   183

     cakes and crackers, none of which tasted as good as their origi-
     nal success. SnackWell’s started to run downhill. There has
     been talk that Nabisco is considering throwing in the towel on
     the brand.
   McDonald’s built a widely successful business on inexpensive,
     high-speed hamburgers. But then it wanted to become more of
     a restaurant that offered kids’ hamburgers, grown-ups’ hambur-
     gers, pizza, chicken—you name it. Suddenly, a new CEO saw
     the problem and went back to basics. As he said, ‘‘We took our
     eyes off the fries.’’

    Robert Goizueta, the late CEO of Coca-Cola, said, ‘‘In real estate
it’s location, location, location. In business it’s differentiate, differ-
entiate, differentiate.’’
    The more things you try to become and the more you lose focus,
the more difficult it is to differentiate your product.

ESPN everything?
First there was ESPN—a brilliant idea—a new category in televi-
sion. Then, they line-extended like crazy:

Television
   ESPN (1979 to present)
   ESPN on ABC (2006-present, replacing ABC Sports)
   ESPN International (1989 to present)
   ESPN2 (1993 to present)
   ESPNEWS (1996 to present)
   ESPN Classic (1997 to present)
   ESPNU (2005 to present)
   ESPN Deportes (2004 to present)
   ESPNHD (2003 to present)
184    Growth Can Destroy Differentiation

   ESPN2HD (2005 to present)
   ESPN Plus (to present)
   ESPN PPV (to present)

Internet
   ESPN Motion (2003 to present)
   ESPN 360 (2005 to present)
   ESPN.com

Radio
   ESPN Radio (1992 to present)
   ESPN Deportes Radio

    Were they successful? We’d have to say, yes.
    Hoovers (a Dun & Bradstreet company that evaluates compa-
nies) calls ESPN the ‘‘superstar of the sports broadcasting world,’’
with 2005 sales of $4.1 billion, reaching 97 million U.S. homes and
available in 190 countries. Are all the versions successful? We don’t
know because ESPN is 80 percent owned by Walt Disney/ABC Ca-
ble, it does not report its own profitability.
    They have been successful for two reasons. One, no strong com-
petitor has emerged to become the alternative. Two, they have de-
livered ‘‘Sports broadcasting’’ in different forms so in a way they
haven’t undone their basic position of leadership. Their identity is
still intact.

Damaging Your Difference
Marketers fail to realize the long-term damage they do by growing
beyond their original identity. They set up serious questions about a
brand’s difference:
   If Michelob is a first-class premium beer, can it retain its better-
      taste perceptions with a watered-down light version? Not
      likely.
                                               Wall Street Rebels   185

   If Volvo is a safe car with tanklike styling, can it suddenly be
    perceived as a sporty convertible with conventional styling?
    Not likely.
   If Nike is athletic shoes and clothing, can it suddenly be per-
    ceived as an equipment manufacturer? Not likely.
   If Ralph Lauren’s tweedy Polo brand is what the preppy
    groups wear, can it suddenly be perceived as a cool extreme-
    sportswear brand for mountain bikers, runners, and snow-
    boarders? Not likely.

   What happens is that by presenting yourself as something other
than what you’re known for begins to erode your special difference.
You begin to cloud your identity. As you read earlier, minds can lose
focus.
   Next, you force people to change their mind about what you are
about. This is never a good strategy because people hate to change
their mind. As psychologists will tell you, changing an attitude
means that a person must change his or her beliefs. (Good luck on
that one.)
   Finally, you have the problem of becoming that ‘‘something
else.’’ How is your new effort different? Where are your credentials
for that new thing? (Good luck on that one.)
   So what you end up doing is undermining your basic identity or
difference while, at the same time, you have a hard time selling your
new one. Can you succeed that way? Not likely.

Wall Street Rebels
We must be fair about Wall Street. While they do push growth,
there are times when they stand up and yell if they think a company
has gone over the edge in trying to keep up their growth rate.
   They didn’t do much when Starbucks started to sell food along
with coffee. But it sure happened when they announced plans to
focus on the Web instead of finding ways to sell more coffee. As the
186   Growth Can Destroy Differentiation

Wall Street Journal reported, ‘‘Investors dropped Starbucks Corp.
stock like a cup of scalding mocha.’’1
   The reason: a growing concern that the infatuation of Starbucks
founder Howard Schultz with the Internet may have diverted atten-
tion within the company from selling coffee. They just couldn’t see
Starbucks becoming some kind of cyber-megamerchant where cus-
tomers go to buy everything from gourmet foods to furniture.
   As a senior equity analyst put it, ‘‘The discipline is not
doing everything but discerning between the nice-to-have busi-
ness and the need-to-have. Their bread and butter is in their
backyard.’’
   We couldn’t have said it any better.

Less Can Be More
What companies often do is fail to recognize that maintaining focus
on their basic business can work out a lot better in the long run.
   If Volvo makes the safest car in the world, why suddenly move
into sporty vehicles? Better to look around the world and go where
they need safe vehicles. Have you ever driven on a road in India?
You sure do want the safest car you can find. The same goes for
many roads around the world that are populated with many unsafe
drivers and very few policemen.
   And what about SUVs? Maybe you can come up with a safer ver-
sion that does better in crash tests or doesn’t tip over so easily.
   With the state of the world’s roads, we don’t see ‘‘safety’’ as a
limiting idea. We see it as an idea that still has a long way to go.

Growth via Multiple Brands
But don’t think that we’re opposed to getting bigger and richer.
That’s the American way. We’re opposed to how people try to do it.
  There is a better way.
                                         A Spanish Multibrand Story   187

   While you can save marketing money by sticking with one
brand, experience has shown that multiple brands can translate to
bigger overall market share. Coke and Nike, big single brands, each
has about 30 percent of its respective market.
   Gillette, on the other hand, has multiple brands (Trac II, Atra,
Sensor, Mach 3, Fusion, and Good News) and has 65 percent of its
market. We call this ‘‘the complementary approach’’ because you
have brands that complement rather than compete with one another.
   This calls for different names, different positions, and different
target audiences. Sometimes you can accomplish the same thing
with subbrands. BMW has effectively done this with its 3, 5, and 7
series of cars. They all are ‘‘ultimate driving machines,’’ but they are
positioned differently to cover different market segments.

A Spanish Multibrand Story
When Spain’s national oil company privatized, the new company,
Repsol, had three of the country’s gasoline brands and about half of
its gas stations. There was a new brand created when the company
went private (Repsol). Then there was the old, well-known brand of
government-owned days (Campsa). Finally, there was a regional
brand in the north of Spain (Petronor).
   All this would be like one U.S. oil company owning Mobil, Tex-
aco, and Merit: not a bad deal, if you could get away with it.
   They had three different names, but all were treated as the same.
It was as if they had one brand inside the company and three brands
outside.
   To protect their 50 percent market share, they decided to differ-
entiate the brands by attribute.

A Brand for the Car
Thanks to a great deal of corporate introductory advertising about
the new Repsol brand, most people in Spain gave this new company
188    Growth Can Destroy Differentiation

high marks in the attribute of ‘‘innovation and technology.’’ Also,
the Repsol brand had pioneered 98-octane gasoline (something
even the United States doesn’t have). All this tended to set up a
strategy that would focus on people who were very car oriented.
And since cars are very expensive in Spain, this was a large percent-
age of people.
   The concept that captured this strategy was ‘‘Repsol. The best for
your car.’’
   Of course, to bring this concept to life they had to focus on car-
oriented products and promotion. In addition to 98-octane gaso-
line, we recommended that they develop a new synthetic oil for
today’s new engines.

A Brand for Service
Perceptual research showed that the long-term Campsa brand was
perceived very favorably. In terms of the attribute of ‘‘reliability,’’ it
scored exceptionally high as compared to other gas station brands
(even 50 percent higher than the new Repsol brand).
   This led us to recommend that Campsa take advantage of these
perceptions and emphasize its many years of service to the Spanish
motorist. The way to express this idea: ‘‘Campsa. Sixty years of
service.’’
   The way to implement this strategy was to continue to publish
their very popular Campsa Driving Guide (maps, restaurants, hotels,
and so on).
   Campsa stations also had begun to put 7-Eleven stores in certain
locations. We recommended that they extend these stores to all lo-
cations, as well as introduce any new service ideas they had on the
drawing board. A typical example of this would be the credit card
self-service pumps you see at many stations in the United States.
   It turned out that Campsa was also sponsoring a racing program.
In this case, we recommended that they discontinue the program
and leave the racing to Repsol.
                                               A Korean Disaster   189

  Of course, the Campsa advertising could take viewers through
the 60 years of service, thus reminding people of the excellent job
they have done for six decades.

A Brand for Price
The last brand was regional and really had no strong perceptions
attached to it. In effect, it had a clean slate in the mind, and could
be repositioned in any way the company wanted.
   We saw a future possibility for Petronor as a price brand. The way
to express this concept: ‘‘Petronor. More miles for your money.’’
   In terms of explanation, this brand would be put in high-volume
locations, have self-service pumps only, low prices, limited services,
and be paid for in cash only.
   While price is not yet an issue in Spanish gasoline, this brand
certainly could be set up if price wars ever do break out. The point
is that sometimes you have to change things today, so that you’re
ready for tomorrow.
   Covering three major segments with three different brands will
greatly help Repsol cope with the arrival of the multinational oil
companies.
   It’s how the big oil company in Spain plans to stay the big oil
company in Spain.

A Korean Disaster
Daewoo is the second-largest conglomerate, or chaebol, in South
Korea. And they narrowly escaped becoming the country’s largest
ever bankruptcy in July of 1999.
   South Koreans joke that the motto of their chaebols is ‘‘from cup
noodles to satellites.’’ But saying they have diverse interests
is understating the problem. Daewoo is into telecommunications,
personal computers, construction, securities, shipyards, hotels,
190   Growth Can Destroy Differentiation

electronics, automobiles, and on and on. There are, count them, 25
subsidiaries.
   This was growth at its worst as the government leaned heavily on
Korean financial institutions to fund the grandiose ambitions of
chaebol expansion. And while these organizations learned how to
make stuff, they never figured out how to sell it at a profit.
   With $50 billion in debt, it’s no wonder that vultures are circling
as various pieces are being sold off. This overgrown conglomerate is
in for some serious dieting.
                         C H A P T E R

                                21

        Differentiation Often
         Requires Sacrifice

A
       s you read in Chapter 20, wanting too much can be bad for
       your business. Well, here’s the flip side: Giving up something
       can be good for your business.
   Once upon a time, there was a company called Emery AirFreight.
They were the biggest freight forwarders and their strategy was to
offer overnight delivery, two-day delayed delivery, small-package
delivery, and large-package delivery. (Whatever you want deliv-
ered, we’ll deliver it.) Then along came Federal Express. They sacri-
ficed a lot of business and offered only small packages overnight.
Their difference: overnight.
   FedEx became a well-differentiated success. Emery went
bankrupt.

                                191
192   Differentiation Often Requires Sacrifice

More Is Less
When you study categories over a long period of time, you can see
that adding more can weaken growth, not help it.
   In its heyday (about 1980), Miller beer had two brands: High Life
and Lite. Their sales ran about 35 million barrels of beer. Then they
added Genuine Draft. By 1990, sales had slipped to 32 million bar-
rels. Undaunted, they continued to add more and more Miller
brands. Sales continued to go nowhere as Budweiser got stronger
and stronger.
   Finally, after almost 20 years of ‘‘more,’’ their parent company,
Philip Morris, came to town and fired the top management of Mill-
er. (What took them so long?)

What Do Cowboys Smoke?
Philip Morris should know a ‘‘more is less’’ problem when they see
one. The same thing happened to their flagship brand, Marlboro.
   In an effort to maintain growth, Marlboro introduced Marlboro
Lights into Marlboro Country. Then they introduced Marlboro Me-
diums, then Marlboro Menthol, and even Marlboro Ultra-Lights.
Suddenly, for the first time in memory, the brand started to turn
down.
   It’s obvious what the problem was about: Real cowboys don’t
smoke menthols and ultra-lights.
   Philip Morris isn’t stupid. They are back in Marlboro Country
with the red-and-white package. There’s not a menthol or medium
in sight.

The Basic Problem
The more you add, the more you risk undermining your basic differ-
entiating idea. If, as in Marlboro’s case, they stand for full flavor,
how can that attribute hold up when you start to offer other flavors
or weakened flavors?
                                               What’s a Porsche?   193

    Michelob was once a very successful, expensive full-flavored
beer. Then it introduced Michelob Light and Michelob Dry. The
brand went downhill. Heineken, another expensive full-flavored
beer, obviously learned from that mistake. Their light beer was
called Amstel Light, which is doing very nicely with the brilliant
differentiating idea: ‘‘95 calories never tasted so imported.’’
    Once upon a time, a company called Eveready had a strategy to
offer whatever kind of battery you wanted. Then along came Dura-
cell. They sacrificed a lot of business and offered only alkaline
batteries.
    Duracell became the specialist in long-lasting alkaline batteries
and a differentiated success. But they were not the leader and had
nothing to lose. As you saw in an earlier chapter, the need for
growth tends to make market leaders vulnerable. Rather than give
up anything, they kept adding more. Most failed brands once had a
differentiating idea that they destroyed by adding more and more
versions. Chevrolet was once a good-value family car. Now what is
it? (No one knows.)

What’s a Porsche?
When you ask that question, what comes to mind for most people is
a mental picture of the famous 911, which is a rear-engine, air-
cooled, 6-cylinder car. It’s a classic.
   But rather than sacrifice, Porsche decided to introduce the 928,
which was a midengine, water-cooled, 8-cylinder car that was more
expensive.
   So now, what’s a Porsche? The answer: a front/rear, air/water,
4/6/8-cylinder, cheap/expensive car. Or, to be more accurate, con-
fusion. The result was that sales plummeted to a point that by 1993
the three Porsches were selling about one-tenth of what the 911
sold in 1986.
   All those non-911s are gone and sales of the real 911 and a less
expensive version have rebounded.
194   Differentiation Often Requires Sacrifice

Convergence: The Latest ‘‘More’’
Convergence is the opposite of sacrifice, as it is all about products
that do more.
   And it’s hard to avoid predictions about converging products in
the worlds of computing, communications, consumer electronics,
entertainment, and publishing.
   These predictions go way back. A July 18, 1993, cover story
in Newsday predicted that convergence will cause the eventual
demise of videotapes, video stores, newspapers, TV channels,
telephone operators, Yellow Pages, mail-order catalogs, college
textbooks, library card catalogs, beepers, VCRs, checkbooks,
and cassette players.
   (We suspect you’ve noticed that all those things that were pre-
dicted to go away are still alive and well. So much for that
prediction.)
   The latest predictions have telephones, video, and the Internet
all converging at our television sets. Even the cartoonists are getting
into the act. Our favorite has a gentleman, with his large-screen
Sony on his shoulder saying hello into it.
   If you study history, convergence rarely happens. Products that
do more than they should are quick to die.

Old and New Convergence Disasters
In 1937, we had the convertoplane, a combination of helicopter
and airplane that never got off the ground. Neither did the 1945
Hall Flying Car or the 1947 Taylor Aerocar.
   In 1961, Amphicar was the first combination boat and automo-
bile. The idea sank. (People figured they could park their boat at
the marina and get into their car and drive home.)
   In recent times, we had AT&T’s EO Personal Communicator, a
cellular phone, fax, electronic mail, personal organizer, and pen-
based computer. Then there was Okidata’s Doc-it, a desktop print-
er, fax, scanner, and copier. Finally, we were introduced to a PDA,
                                         Different Kinds of Sacrifice   195

or Apple’s Newton MessagePad, a fax, beeper, calendar keeper, and
pen-based computer.
   All of these are no longer with us. In this case, more is dead.

Why Convergence Doesn’t Work
Creating products that do more than one thing requires sacrifice of a
different kind. Designing multifunctional products forces your de-
signers to give up what could be an outstanding single-function de-
sign for a lesser design that accommodates the extra functions.
   Can a great car be a great boat at the same time? Of course not. If
you want a really fast car, get a Ferrari. A fast boat? Get a Cigarette
boat.
   Can a great Formula One racing tire be a great passenger car tire
at the same time? Of course not. (Racing tires don’t have any tread.)
   People want the best of the breed, not a mutt that contains sev-
eral breeds.
   People don’t want to give up important features so that they can
do other things with it. Just because you can build it is no insurance
that people will buy it.
   If your difference is that your product can do a lot of things not
very well as opposed to a product that does one thing exceptionally
well, you haven’t got much of a difference.

Different Kinds of Sacrifice
Over the years, we’ve seen three different kinds of sacrifice that are
required in the game of differentiation:

  1. Product sacrifice: Staying focused on one kind of product is far
     superior to the everything-for-everyone approach (unless you
     use multiple brands): Duracell in alkaline batteries, KFC in
     chicken, Foot Locker in athletic shoes, White Castle in small
     hamburgers, Subaru in four-wheel-drive cars, Southwest
196    Differentiation Often Requires Sacrifice

      Airlines in short-haul air travel. You can become different as
      the expert and the best of the breed in this kind of product.
  2. Attribute sacrifice: Staying focused on one kind of product at-
     tribute is superior to telling a multiple attribute story. It en-
     ables you to be different by taking ownership of a perceived
     benefit. Volvo took ownership of ‘‘safety’’ in automobiles.
     Crest took ownership of ‘‘cavity prevention.’’ Nordstrom took
     ownership of ‘‘service.’’ Dell took ownership of selling ‘‘di-
     rect.’’ Your product might offer more than one attribute, but
     your message should be focused on the one you want to
     preempt.
  3. Target market sacrifice: Staying focused on one target segment
     in a category enables you to be different by becoming the pre-
     ferred product by the segment: Pepsi for the younger genera-
     tion, Corvette for the generation that wants to be young,
     Corona beer for the yuppies on their way up, Porsche for the
     yuppies who have made it.

   When you chase after another target segment, chances are you’ll
chase away your original customer.
   Whatever you do, you should not get greedy but stay true to your
product type, your attribute, or your segment.

How to Feel Good about Sacrifice
When companies are told they have to sacrifice, they often get very
upset with the idea. After all, no one really wants to give up any-
thing or get locked into what they feel is a limited market.
   But then we let them in on the good news. It goes like this: What
you advertise, what you sell, and what you make money on can be
three different things.
   Let’s take Burger King as an example. They should advertise
‘‘Broiling, not frying,’’ because that makes them different from
McDonald’s. Once people arrive, they can sell them chicken or fries
                                         Different Kinds of Sacrifice   197

or whatever. Who cares? And as for making money, that comes
from selling soft drinks, which certainly doesn’t need advertising.
   You get the idea? In many cases, the sacrifice is found primarily in
how you communicate or craft your message to the marketplace as
to why you’re different. Once you capture those prospects, you’re
free to sell them whatever. And how you make your money is yet
another issue.
   So, while ‘‘sacrifice’’ limits you in how you present yourself to
attract customers, you’re not really limited in what you sell them
once they are in the door. (Federal Express does handle packages
that don’t just go overnight.)
   Now, don’t you feel a little better?
                          C H A P T E R

                                 22

             Being Different
           in Different Places

G
         o global, young man. That was the advice from Theodore
         Levitt when his seminal article, ‘‘The Globalization of Mar-
         kets,’’ was published in 1983. Since then, globalization has
become a dominant theme of international business strategy.
   It really is a neat idea: You drive a global brand with one big dif-
ferentiated idea, everywhere from Akron to Auckland. Your brand
gets recognized on the shelf by travelers and natives alike. A single
marketing team means you save on staff and time. A single global
name and design lowers production and manufacturing costs. The
same pool of commercials used everywhere means you save on pro-
duction dollars. (And your ad agency is happy, too: They have less
work to do.)
   Seldom has one concept been so overused and misused.

                                 199
200    Being Different in Different Places

Play It Where It Lies
Like marketing, golf is a global game, too. But early on, golfers learn
something that many marketers ignore: You have to play it where it
lies.
   The idea of marketing a standardized product with a uniform
message around the world remains ‘‘purely theoretical,’’ according
to the president of the Hellenic Institute of Marketing in Greece.
Although a product concept may be universal, it must be adapted
to differences in local culture, legislation, and even production ca-
pabilities. Consumers’ interests and needs are not the same
everywhere.
   And let’s not overlook local competition. By the time you show
up on the other side of the globe, a local firm may have preempted
your differentiating idea.

The Finnish Coffee Caper
That was the case in Finland, a little country with a big coffee habit.
Finns are among the world’s heaviest coffee drinkers, with an aver-
age consumption of 160 liters per person.
   General Foods targeted Finland with its Swedish coffee brand,
Gevalia, a blend of Colombian, East African, and Indonesian beans.
(Gevalia’s label proclaims that it serves ‘‘His Majesty the King of
Sweden and the Royal Court.’’) But the megamarketer’s entry was
thwarted by the decades-old local brand, Paulig coffee.
   In Finland, Paulig owns the high ground in coffee. It’s the origi-
nal. It tastes good. It owns the social occasion. (The social aspect of
coffee in Finland is important, as well as treating yourself to a cup of
coffee after a job well done.)
   So was there room for a standardized coffee product with a uni-
versal message? Not in Helsinki. Paulig, the home-grown brew, kept
perking along with its more than 50 percent share. Gevalia barely
made a dent.
                             A Global Pioneer Finds There Are Limits   201

The Universals
Yes, there are some universal aspects to life and marketing.
   Oil of Olay was the first beauty product to say a woman can be
beautiful at any age, and that idea speaks to women the world over.
   Some companies can turn their national origins and heritage into
global identities (as long as they’ve got the massive budgets to fan
the flames). Levi Strauss and Disney export the American dream.
Chanel and Louis Vuitton represent French chic. Armani repre-
sents Italian style. Burberry stands for classic English values.
   But for most marketing mortals who are chasing ‘‘one global vil-
lage,’’ the facts just don’t support the dream.

A Global Pioneer Finds There Are Limits
Nestlé has been a global company from its earliest days. In the
1860s, pharmacist Henri Nestlé worried about the dying children.
(Infant mortality was higher in Switzerland than in most emerging
countries today.) He developed one of the first Nestlé products, an
infant cereal to help feed them.
   Henri Nestlé had two grand visions. First, he immediately went
international. The product was in five European countries four
months after launch. Second, he wanted his own brand. Store
brands (private labels) already existed, but he was one of the first to
create a manufacturer’s brand.
   But even with its potent global thrust, Nestlé has realized over
the years that global brands alone can’t win the war.
   An analysis a few years ago by the McKinsey consulting firm
showed that the company regularly sends out different horses for
different courses. Nestlé has:

   Several dozen worldwide brands, such as Baci, Buitoni, Carna-
     tion, Kit Kat, Maggi, Mighty Dog, and Perrier (the USPs vary
     by country).
202    Being Different in Different Places

   More than a hundred regional brands, such as Alpo, Conta-
      dina, Herta, Mackintosh, and Vittel (no globality here).
   More than 700 local brands, such as Brigadeiro, Solis, and
      Texicana (not even close to global).

Hold the Beef, Please
McDonald’s cholesterol kitsch comes from its American origins and
heritage. The icon of the golden arches wants to think globally, but
it is forced to act locally.
    Consider the following:

   In Germany, the second-largest market outside the United
      States, there are different challenges. Menus are much more
      varied (Oriental Burgers) and there are more vegetarian offer-
      ings (Veggie McNuggets).
   In Italy, there’s a special espresso counter at McDonald’s where
      you can buy hot drinks.
   In China, commercials use children to explain to the older
      generation what McDonald’s is all about. (There is no heritage
      to import.)
   But in Australia, which has one of the highest concentrations
      of outlets per mouth in the world, McDonald’s reinforces its
      U.S. credentials with commercials featuring dead American
      stars such as Marilyn Monroe and James Dean.

   Says the international account director for Leo Burnett, which
has handled the McDonald’s brand in 18 countries: ‘‘Marketing
food is a tricky business precisely because everyone has an idea
of what good food should be, and it’s usually a different idea. The
U.S. overtones of a McDonald’s sandwich might be aspirational in
Latin America or even some of the Asian markets but, by the same
token, these overtones are guaranteed to make European hackles
                                                Different in India   203

rise and trigger complaints about American culinary cultural
imperialism.’’1
   Which probably explains why McDonald’s commercials in the
U.K. tend to focus on the qualities of the food rather than their
American heritage.

Beer That Travels
Heineken is a global beer.
   The world’s second-largest brewer is meticulous about product
consistency. All its breweries stick to the same recipe. To make sure
the product is the same everywhere, every 14 days their breweries
send samples to professional tasters in the Netherlands. The com-
pany also buys back bottles from small shops as far away as Shanghai
for testing.
   Employees are not permitted to alter a single line on the label,
lighten the packaging colors, or vary the shape of the bottle. (Step
out of line by one iota and you go directly to Heineken hell.)
   But what about the differentiating idea for this premium beer?
Standardizing the taste is one thing. Karel Vuursteen, Heineken’s
former CEO, admits that standardizing the marketing is impossible.
   Says Vuursteen, ‘‘We don’t believe you can communicate to
all cultures in the same way. In the United States and Western
Europe, beer is a normal part of life, it’s thirst-quenching. In Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, it’s very macho. In many Southeast Asian
countries, it’s almost a ‘feminine’ product—sophisticated. Thus, we
give our local representatives a lot of freedom in sales and
advertising.’’2

Different in India
This is the land of nonstandard marketing.
  You say you want to take your products to India and get a piece of
that big middle class (260 million Indians).
204    Being Different in Different Places

   Be careful, there’s still not a lot of money around. The median
household income is still only $833 a year. At that level, a cheap
television and a cheap sewing machine are the best families can do.
Sure, people buy cell phones, but to keep costs down they note the
number calling and ring back on a conventional phone. Average
usage is less than five minutes a month.
   To deal with this world, you have to make your products afford-
able. You sell very small cigarettes or packets of toothpaste that cost
just a few cents.
   Reebok sells $23 running shoes. Kentucky Fried Chicken has
gone to India with budget-priced meals and local vegetarian and
spicy dishes. (Sales are up 200 percent as a result.) McDonald’s sells
the Maharajah Mac (two all-mutton patties). GE-Godrej, an Indo-
U.S. joint venture, recognized that home appliances double as sta-
tus symbols and have been successful by producing attractive refrig-
erators that look good in the living room.
   To sell in India, you have to do it India’s way, not your way.

Some Rules for the Road
Before you decide that one differentiating idea can take your brand
around the world, here are some things to keep in mind:

   The current idea may be the wrong idea. Sometimes, you’ll do bet-
      ter by bringing back an old idea.
         For reasons we’ll never comprehend, Coke moved away from
      ‘‘the real thing,’’ its powerful message that there’s only one
      original and all the other colas are just copycats.
         But in Russia, there’s a rediscovery of roots and a respect of
      authentic things. So in Moscow, ‘‘Drink the legend’’ is Coke’s
      national TV and poster campaign. It’s the real thing, in a new
      translation.
   Attributes can change when you cross borders. As you read earlier,
      the attributes of beer itself can range from macho to feminine,
      depending on local customs.
                                         Some Rules for the Road   205

     The attributes of an individual brand can change, too. In Mex-
  ico, the Corona brand is a humble, low-rent beer. You can pick
  up a six-pack in a Mexico City supermercado for about $2.50.
  But in the United States, Corona has a spring-break, palm-trees,
  drink-it-with-a-lime upscale image. That same six-pack will cost
  you $6 in Atlanta. Much to the bewilderment of Mexicans, Co-
  rona is now the top-selling imported beer in the United States.
     Or consider yogurt. In the United States, yogurt is generally
  seen as a healthy food, and the Dannon brand celebrates that.
  But in France, Danone was seen as too indulgent, too pleasure
  oriented. So the company created the Institute of Health, a real
  research center dedicated to food and education.
 Your market leadership may not translate. Nescafé is Nestlé’s top-
  selling coffee brand around the world.
     But in India, Nestlé had to create a special instant coffee
  named Sunrise to please local taste buds. Sunrise is blended
  with chicory to give a strong and familiar flavor. Sunrise out-
  sells the world-famous Nescafé in India.
 Your heritage may not be respected. Kellogg’s is a proud old name
  for cereal. But the folks from Battle Creek got a cold shoulder
  in India, where hot food is preferred for breakfast because Indi-
  ans believe it infuses them with energy. (Indians believe food
  shapes personality and mood.)
     So much for heritage.
 Your specialty may get blurred. What’s Lux? Well, you see the
  name throughout Asia, usually accompanied by sexy American
  stars with box office appeal. (Celebrities such as Demi Moore,
  Liz Taylor, and Brooke Shields hawk Lux products.)
     In Indonesia, Lux is a soap.
     In China, Taiwan, and the Philippines, Lux is a shampoo.
     In Japan, it’s everything from soaps to shampoos.

    It’s tough to convince the world you’re a specialist when
  your expertise varies according to geography.
206   Being Different in Different Places

One for All?
The client services director for a global design firm says: ‘‘The same
branding is reassuring, but it can mean different things in different
markets. The benefits seem to be mainly for the companies. They
save on economies of scale. They have fewer people thinking strate-
gically about the brand.’’3
   And that’s the problem with all-out globalization. Tastes vary.
Preferences vary. People vary.
   You can differentiate anywhere.
   But you can’t differentiate everywhere with the same idea.
                         C H A P T E R

                                23

            Maintaining Your
               Difference

A
      s you just read in earlier chapters, the desire for endless
      growth often leads to the ‘‘everything for everybody’’ trap.
      This, in turn, leads to the end of differentiation. (We won’t
bore you with any more examples.)
   But there are some important guidelines to maintaining your dif-
ference—guidelines that can help keep you from wandering off into
the wilderness and getting lost.

Remember Your Difference
When companies or brands are being built, management is usually
very involved with the essence or difference of a product or service.
But as time goes on and new management arrives, that difference

                                207
208   Maintaining Your Difference

can be in jeopardy as new egos come into play and corporate memo-
ry begins to fade.
   Somehow you must find a way to maintain the understanding of
your difference with ensuing generations of management. You can’t
let them wander off strategy. That’s exactly what General Motors
did with their brands when, for financial reasons, they began to
price them alike and make them look alike.
   That faulty memory led to a dramatic loss of market share.

The Sears Story
Sears is a legendary retailer under attack. Wal-Mart, Kmart, Target,
Home Depot, Ames, Circuit City, and a host of other retailers are
making their life and future very difficult.
   Being different is critical in an overretailed world. But how do
they do it? If you study what made Sears successful, you realize that
they were the first and only retailer to build major brands: Kenmore
appliances, Craftsman tools, DieHard batteries, Roadhandler tires,
and Weatherbeater paint. These were very good products at very
good prices and they were guaranteed. And they were only available
at Sears.
   History tells you that it’s these brands that makes Sears different.
So their future depends on maintaining the strength of these brands
and doing what they did in the past: Build some new ones.
   Remembering what made them successful is the key to differenti-
ating Sears.

Stay Contrary
Bob Lutz, the president of Chrysler, wrote a book called Guts
(Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, 2003). In it is a chapter that’s
worth the price of the book. It’s titled ‘‘When Everybody Else Is
Doing It, Don’t.’’ We couldn’t have said it any better. Being differ-
ent often requires ‘‘going against’’ thinking. You have to have the
guts to go against what is often conventional wisdom.
                                    A Contrary Move in Jet Engines   209

   As we wrote in an earlier chapter, when a nineteen-year-old
named Michael Dell started his own little computer company, he
knew he couldn’t compete with established companies for floor
space in stores. However, the rules of the industry, at that time, dic-
tated that computers had to be sold in stores. Every company in the
industry believed that customers wouldn’t trust a mail-order com-
pany to provide such a high-end item.
   Michael Dell broke the rule. He ignored conventional wisdom in
the industry and direct-marketed. And in no time he built a billion-
dollar company.
   Most organizations believe the way to succeed is to emulate the
most successful members in their given category. So they begin
to drift away from their difference in search of the business that a
competitor already has in hand. Pepsi dropped its ‘‘new generation’’
focus for an ‘‘everybody’’ focus. Burger King goes after the little
kids that belong to McDonald’s. Cadillac tried twice to sell small
Cadillacs to the younger set.
   What these companies fail to realize is this: ‘‘Once contrary, al-
ways contrary.’’

A Contrary Move in Jet Engines
One of the best ways to be contrary is to redefine the business and
the way it’s done.
   Beset by earlier technical problems, the GE90 jet engine has run
a distant third behind Pratt & Whitney and Rolls-Royce to power
the Boeing 777. So when the new 777X long-range version of the
plane was being developed, General Electric saw an opportunity to
redefine the business. The strategy came in two parts.
   Part one was to convince Boeing to sell the plane as a package—
aircraft and engines. This is a break from the normal practice where
Boeing sells the aircraft to the airlines, which then makes an engine
decision (General Electric, Pratt & Whitney, or Rolls-Royce). Gen-
eral Electric pulled this off with a unique preset cost of so many
210   Maintaining Your Difference

dollars per flight-hour maintenance deal that takes the risk out of
maintenance costs for the airline.
   Part two was an agreement by General Electric to pick up half
the development costs for the new version, thus taking from Boeing
some risk of meeting performance guarantees.
   In return for this new approach, Boeing made General Electric
the exclusive engine supplier for this long-range aircraft. At about
$12 million a copy, that contrary move by General Electric could
be worth $20 billion in revenue over the coming 20 years.

Be Consistent
Once you’ve established what makes you different, your next assign-
ment is to reflect that difference in everything you do. This single-
mindedness will influence not only your customers but your own
employees as well.
   Consistency comes in many forms. One form is consistency of
message. Often companies develop a simple but effective differenti-
ating message, which shows up in their advertising. But the public
relations people head off in a different direction. Then you have the
promotional people who want to do their thing, which is the same
for the corporate affairs people who are talking to stockholders and
Wall Street.
   Instead of each group running with the same idea, they want
their own ideas so that they can get the credit for their work, not
someone else’s work.
   The only person who can keep everyone pointed in the same di-
rection is the CEO. He or she has to keep everyone focused on the
same message.

Making the Tough Calls
If, as we wrote earlier, Burger King were to focus on older kids, the
CEO would have to go to the franchisees and make sure they get rid
                                          Consistency in Operation   211

of their swing sets. The CEO would say to the product people, ‘‘No
more kiddie meals,’’ and to the promotional people, ‘‘No more Dis-
ney tie-ins.’’ The CEO would go to the advertising people and the
agencies and say, ‘‘We’re a grown-up place and McDonald’s is a kid-
die place. All of our messages for the foreseeable future should drive
this idea.’’
   Finally, he would have to have the guts to go to Wall Street, the
board, and the stockholders and explain why the company is walk-
ing away from the kids-and-family segment. (This is all very tough
stuff, which is probably why the company never pursued this strat-
egy which we presented to them years ago.)

Consistency in Operation
In an earlier chapter, we mentioned Wells Fargo bank and their use
of heritage to differentiate themselves around the attribute of speed
of service. The concept: ‘‘Fast then. Fast now.’’
   But to take ownership of that difference, the bank will have to do
a lot more than just run an integrated communications program.
They will have to work very hard at developing fast responsive
services.
   They also will have to build a very aggressive internal program to
make their people more sensitive to being responsive to customer
needs. The promise of being ‘‘fast’’ requires that you deliver on this
promise. And your customers will quickly notice any inconsistency.
   Years ago, when Avis proclaimed that they ‘‘try harder,’’ their
people had to exhibit that kind of effort.
   Or when United set out to have ‘‘friendly skies,’’ their personnel
had to keep that smile on their faces, no matter how angry the pas-
sengers. (We suspect that this program was dropped because being
friendly after a several-hour delay is impossible.)
   Again, maintaining this kind of consistency is in the hands of the
CEO. He or she has to be the cheerleader in this consistency effort.
   The most friendly and funny skies in the airline business belong
to Southwest Airlines. What made that happen is CEO Herb
212   Maintaining Your Difference

Kelleher. When you saw Herb on a plane, he was the funniest of the
lot.

Stay Connected
There are times when you have to change your position. The market
has shifted underneath you, and either you’re onto another differ-
entiating idea or you’re dead. That is what kept Lotus alive when
Microsoft took over the spreadsheet business with Excel for Windows.
   But this is usually an exception, not the rule. More times than
not, your program should be a continuous effort to maintain and
even improve your difference. Change because the marketplace
changes is one thing. Change for the sake of change is another.
Some of this happens when you pursue endless growth.
   Implementing endless product variations, just to pump sales, only
clutters the shelves and shifts the balance of power to the retailer
who owns the shelf space. (Consider the cough/cold remedy aisle in
your average supermarket. There are so many variations you can’t
even find what you’re looking for.)
   Running out endless line extensions just to get bigger numbers
only mucks up brand perceptions and opens the door for specialized
and well-differentiated competition. The beer business has regular,
light, draft, dry, and now ice beers. It’s no wonder the only growth
in recent years has been in the microbrewery segment.

Evolve Your Difference
Crest toothpaste has been one of Procter & Gamble’s main brands
for many years. They have owned the attribute of ‘‘less cavities’’ for
over 30 years.
   But thanks to fluoride in water, where the average person once
had 15 cavities in the early 1960s, that number had dropped to 3
cavities in the early 1990s. As a result, the cavity prevention attri-
bute was losing its power. Tartar control and gingivitis protection
were becoming more important attributes.
                                                  Don’t Just Sit There   213

    What Crest should have done is what we call ‘‘evolving your dif-
ference.’’ In other words, broaden their difference but do it in a way
that stays connected to their past. The obvious move was for Crest
to reposition themselves as the ‘‘pioneer in tooth care’’ and to intro-
duce a new Crest that dealt with cavities, tartar control, and
gingivitis.
    Unfortunately, that’s exactly what Colgate did with their new
Total product as after more than 30 years, Colgate snuck back in
first place. (Currently, Crest is making a comeback with its new
Pro-Health toothpaste.)

Don’t Just Sit There
What this illustrates is that the market is a changing place and your
difference often needs some adjusting.
   Toys ‘‘R’’ Us created a unique format—a warehouse packed with
every kind of Barbie and Hot Wheels imaginable. It drove its near-
est competitors into bankruptcy and had things pretty much locked
up.
   What happened next was described in Fortune magazine:

  But then the world changed. Now Toys ‘‘R’’ Us has much tougher
  competitors: Wal-Mart and the Internet. Wal-Mart sells Poké-
  mon, Furby, Barbie and Hot Wheels—most of the toys that Toys
  ‘‘R’’ Us has—at cheaper prices. A harried mom wandering the
  aisles at Toys ‘‘R’’ Us told me, ‘‘I don’t usually come here. I’ll just
  pick something up when I’m at Wal-Mart.’’ And whatever you
  can’t find at Wal-Mart, chances are you can now find it on eToys
  or Amazon.com.1

   Unfortunately, Toys ‘‘R’’ Us still dwells in their glory days and
still clings to their old format. They haven’t evolved their
difference.
   Now that Wal-Mart sells more toys, Toys ‘‘R’’ Us might consider
Fortune magazine’s suggested name change: Toys ‘‘Were’’ Us.
214    Maintaining Your Difference

An Irish Legend

Waterford crystal is one of the best-known and highly perceived
brands in the category.
   But pricing trends have threatened to push the brand into a
Rolls-Royce category: very nice but very expensive. And at $40 to
$50 a glass, the potential for breakage becomes a strong inhibitor.
There is no shortage of less expensive crystal from which to choose
(and to drop).
   Should they just sit there, or is there a way to get around this
pricing problem? Our vote was ‘‘evolve the brand.’’ The strategy
was to introduce a ‘‘lifetime replacement program’’ for Waterford
tableware that is accidentally broken. The offer was a low replace-
ment cost of one-half the list price.
   The program was simple. A registry number is assigned to a pur-
chase of tableware. When a glass is broken, this number as well as
the ‘‘Waterford’’ mark are returned to the factory. A replacement
goes directly to the customer. The program is doable because it
eliminates the retailer. This way, a ‘‘one-half list price’’ would prob-
ably generate a small profit or break even.
   This ‘‘evolving’’ concept could be expressed by positioning
Waterford as ‘‘an investment for life.’’
   Did they do it? No. What they did instead was introduce a cheap-
er ‘‘By Waterford’’ line extension brand.
   The moral here and in the Toys ‘‘R’’ Us story is that evolution
requires change that is not always very comfortable for people to
embrace.

Evolving versus Tinkering
There’s a big difference between evolving a brand and fooling
around with it. Evolving usually addresses a competitive move or a
serious change in the market.
                                            Evolving versus Tinkering   215

   Tinkering usually involves cosmetic changes or silly line exten-
sions or efforts to exploit a trend. It’s also how offices full of market-
ing people keep from getting bored. Consider the following.
   Someone on the Prell shampoo brand says, ‘‘Hey, why don’t we
add a blue Prell to our line of green Prell?’’ Of course this ignores
the consumer perception that if it isn’t green, it can’t be Prell. It’s
what makes Prell different.
   Bad idea.
   Someone on the Pepsi brand says, ‘‘Hey, why don’t we take ad-
vantage of the New Age purity fad, and introduce a clear Pepsi?
We’ll call it Crystal Pepsi.’’ Of course this ignores the consumer per-
ception that if it isn’t brown, it’s not going to taste like a cola. And
isn’t Pepsi the best-tasting cola?
   Bad idea.
   At McDonald’s someone says, ‘‘Hey, let’s take advantage of the
pizza trend and add McPizza to the menu!’’ Of course this ignores
the consumer perception that hamburger joints can’t know much
about making pizza. And aren’t they the folks that have made bil-
lions of hamburgers?
   Bad idea.
   Someone at Anheuser-Busch says, ‘‘Hey, why don’t we add dry
and ice beers to our lineup?’’ Of course this ignores the consumer
perception that beer is usually wet and not served over ice. And
doesn’t this all clash with their wonderful heritage? Would grand-
father have done this?
   Bad idea.
   Differentiating has got to line up with the perceptions in the
mind, not go against them. What people inside the company per-
ceive as ‘‘improvements’’ only cause confusion inside the mind of
the prospect.
   They undermine your difference.
                         C H A P T E R

                                24

 Differentiation in the New
       World of Buzz

S
      uddenly, everyone is running their mouths about word-of-
      mouth marketing. You can tell things are getting a little out
      of hand when you discover there is now a Word-of-Mouth
Marketing Association called WOMMA. And there are conferen-
ces popping up all over the world on this subject. One recent con-
ference had over 400 attendees.
   And that’s not all. Now we have a new dictionary to learn.
Word-of-mouth is now buzz marketing, viral marketing, community
marketing, grassroots marketing, evangelist marketing, product
seeding, influencer marketing, cause marketing, conversation crea-
tion, brand blogging, and referral programs. That’s the good stuff.
What isn’t so good is stealth marketing, shilling, infiltration, com-
ment spam, defacement, and falsification.

                                217
218    Differentiation in the New World of Buzz

   If you’re like us, you’re probably a little confused about all this, so
let’s put some things into perspective.

It’s Not so New
First of all, word-of-mouth isn’t new, much less ‘‘the next big thing’’
that WOMMA declares. A third-party endorsement of your product
has always been the Holy Grail. It makes your product more believ-
able. In prior days, we used to try to find the ‘‘early adopters’’ for a
product. We figured they had big mouths and loved to tell their
friends and neighbors about their new widget.
   What’s different today is people have many more ways to com-
municate. Instead of just verbal we now have digital communica-
tions. Online chatter far surpasses over the fence chatter in every
way, with the exception of clearly knowing the person with whom
you are chattering. The trouble is that the ease of communicating
en masse has raised the noise level to mind boggling levels. That’s
the good news.

Now the Bad News
How many people really want to chatter about products? Do you
really want to talk about your toothpaste or your toilet paper? Even
people with prestige products such as an expensive automobile tend
not to chatter about them. All you really want is to be seen driving
up in one. Now, if it’s Harley Davidson motorcycle, sure. That’s be-
cause you’re part of a club, and that’s all they talk about. But they
don’t need buzz.
   No product in memory got as much buzz and public relations as
the Segway gyroscopic scooter. The problem is that most of the buzz
was negative. ‘‘Funny looking or dangerous on sidewalks’’ is not
what you want to hear. Buzz can kill you if you don’t have the right
product.
                                          Now for Really Bad News   219

   The very expensive movie King Kong was a bust because a lot
of negative word-of-mouth. ‘‘Too long, too loud, and overdone.’’
The Pontiac G6 giveaway on Oprah got a lot of buzz but the car
died at the box office. People would take one for free, but not if they
had to pay for it. You’ve got to have a product or service people
want to talk about in a positive way, and there aren’t many of these
around.

Now for Really Bad News
There’s no way to control that word-of-mouth. Do I want to give up
control and let consumers take over my campaign? No way. They
aren’t getting paid based on how many widgets get sold. If I go to all
this trouble developing a differentiating strategy for my product, I
want to see that message delivered. Buzz can get your name men-
tioned but you can’t depend on much else. Not too many mouths
will do a stand-up commercial about your product versus its compet-
itor. Nor will they check with you in advance on what to say.
   This all brings us to our word-of-mouth on word-of-mouth mar-
keting. It’s not the next big thing. It’s just another tool in your ar-
senal. If you have a way to get your strategy or point of difference
talked about by your customers and prospects, that’s terrific. It will
help, but you’re going to have to surround it with a lot of other ef-
fort, including, if you pardon the expression, advertising. You just
can’t buy mouths the way you can buy media. And mouths can stop
talking about you in a heartbeat once something else comes along
to talk about.
   But what I suspect has really upset some folks at WOMMA is a
sociology professor at Columbia University named Duncan Watts.
Armed with mathematical models, he discovered that these ‘‘Influ-
entials’’ are not all that effective and have little impact beyond
their own immediate neighborhood. That’s not good when you’re
trying to create a cascade through a large network of people. So buzz
marketing is being found to be not as epidemic astouted.
220   Differentiation in the New World of Buzz

An Enlightening Interview
We came across a Wall Street Journal interview with an advertising
agency about just such a marketing tactic. All the right questions
were asked about Diageo’s Smirnoff trying to generate buzz for a
new iced tea malt beverage. Here are some of the questions, an-
swers, and our observations about the agency’s responses:
  Q: Why did this advertising appear only online?
  A: The client didn’t have a lot of money.
      Observation: Diageo is a rich company. If iced tea with Smirn-
      off is a big idea, why not spend enough to introduce it prop-
      erly? The 22nd law in The 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing
      was called the Law of Resources: Without proper resources,
      even the best ideas will not get off the ground. It looks like
      they are violating this law.
   Q: On first viewing the video, I didn’t know it was for Smirnoff
Ice Tea. Why hide the brand name and product?
  A: We can’t play by the rules of advertising, because if people see
the product too much, they will reject it.
      Observation: That’s a big problem. Introducing a new product
      that’s barely visible and easily missed isn’t going to get the job
      done.
   Q: So if you don’t mention the brand, then people are supposed
to think it’s not an ad?
  A: It’s just that it doesn’t feel like an ad. They see it as fun.
      Observation: Are you entertaining people and having fun, or
      are you trying to sell something? Without a reason to buy a
      product, you won’t have many people, beyond the curious,
      who will buy it.
  Q: How did the client react to lack of the Smirnoff name?
  A: They bought into it. They understand that advertising is no
longer talking at someone. It’s about engaging with the consumer.
                                        Buzz Is Only Another Tool   221

You have to be more entertaining. Brands aren’t advertisers any-
more. They are something consumers get involved with and take
part in.
      Observation: That pretty much answers our earlier questions.
      This agency sees itself in the entertainment business, not the
      selling business. Hollywood has come to Madison Avenue. If
      that’s the case, we can only add the famous Edward Murrow
      line: ‘‘Good night, and good luck.’’

Buzz Is Only Another Tool
Once again, it’s important to understand that all these new ways to
reach consumers are just new tools. You still have to have the right
product, the right strategy, and the right differentiating idea with
respect to your competition.
   Consider the release of the movie Snakes on a Plane. It boasted
vigorous marketing on the Internet. The strategy was designed to
involve younger fans and drive them into theaters at a time when
movies were working hard to hold their own against other forms of
entertainment.
   The results were big expectations because of extensive buzz, but
not much business. Some experts suggested that the most entertain-
ing part of the experience was talking about the movie on the Inter-
net, not going to the film.
   Our view? How many people want to see a movie about snakes
on a plane? Only those horror film addicts who love that kind of
stuff. As for the mainstream audience, a lousy idea is a lousy idea no
matter how much buzz it receives.
   But, hey, we could be wrong. General Motors’ Pontiac is spend-
ing all its marketing dollars online to introduce its new G5 coupe.
The company admits that such a strategy certainly won’t generate
as much awareness as traditional media, but it will reach the target
audience of younger men.
   Reaching them is one thing. Selling them is another. It will be
interesting to see how it all works out. Using the Internet to keep in
222    Differentiation in the New World of Buzz

touch with customers makes sense, as does using it along with tradi-
tional media. To us, using it exclusively to launch a new product is
pushing the envelope.
   As the younger buzz crowd would say, ‘‘That’s radical, man.’’

Some Real World Research
With all the hype about buzz and the new gadgets, it’s important to
stay in touch with where consumers go for their entertainment. An
article in Advertising Age spelled out the real numbers.

   On the boob tube: About 93 percent of the audiences prefer the
      old-fashioned way, on a chair or couch in front of the ubiqui-
      tous appliance, according to Jack Oken, general manager-
      strategic measurement initiatives at Nielsen Media Research.
   On iPods: Nielsen surveys reveal consumers spend an average
      of 45 minutes a day listening to music on the devices but only
      three or four minutes watching video, Mr. Oken said. Most of
      it tends to be stuff passed along by friends, not professional-
      quality dramas and comedies.
   On the Web: Many viewers use the Internet for ‘‘snacking,’’ or
      reviewing particular segments of a show, said Amanda Welsh,
      IMMI’s senior VP-research. For many, the Web is ‘‘more of a
      backup’’ that viewers use ‘‘to fill in for what they missed or
      want to rewatch,’’ she said. Not necessarily the best environ-
      ment for an important new campaign.
   On the mobile phone: Gambling on this in the short term is dic-
      ey. ‘‘A lot of (marketers) are spending money hoping to hit a
      jackpot,’’ Mr. Oken said, ‘‘but nobody really knows if the jack-
      pot is large enough to warrant the money they are spending.’’

  The moral of the story is steady as it goes. Things will gradually
change, but very slowly.
                                             The Ultimate Example   223

The Ultimate Example
BMW is a model of how to go about things in this brave, new digital
world. As you’ve read in prior chapters, they clearly established
their point of difference by preempting the attribute of driving
(The Ultimate Driving Machine). They have been consistent in
this concept and not changed it over the past 30 years or so.
   They then cooked up the ultimate product placement by having
James Bond replace his Aston Martin for a new Z3 BMW in one of
his movies. After all, while he is notoriously rough on cars, he is the
ultimate driver. Even though the car only spent 90 seconds on
screen it lent itself to great cross-promotion that doubled BMW’s
goal for preorders of the Z3.
   Then they went online with Hollywood-produced driving vi-
gnettes. They hired Clive Owens to appear in five separate episodes
about a professional driver who is hired to help someone out of a
difficult situation. ‘‘The Driver’’ became the ultimate personifica-
tion of the BMW performance message. After only nine months,
BMW films.com had attracted 10 million film views by 2.13 million
people. Research indicated that more than half were BMW owners
or ‘‘luxury intenders.’’
   As they would say of Mr. Bond and you could say of BMW, no
one does it any better.
                         C H A P T E R

                                25

       You Can Differentiate
            Anything

T
         ed Levitt, a famous Harvard professor, once wrote that ‘‘You
         can differentiate anything, even commodities.’’ He was abso-
         lutely correct. To illustrate that premise, we would like to
introduce three of our nonbusiness projects, several of which hadn’t
happened when we sat down to write the first edition of this book.
The three are the unmarketing of drugs, restoring America’s global
image, and differentiating the Democrats from the Republicans.
(How’s that for ‘‘Anything’’?)
    Let’s start with drugs. Reducing drug use in America has been the
longest running, most unsuccessful marketing program in history.
Some years ago, we were asked to suggest a better approach because
‘‘Just say No’’ didn’t seem to be accomplishing very much.
    Millions of Americans want to consume drugs, and we’ve repeat-
edly pointed out the difficulty of trying to change people’s minds.

                                225
226    You Can Differentiate Anything

How do you reduce the demand for drugs? The trick is to find a way
to hang a very negative idea on drug use. That means a reposition-
ing strategy is necessary.
   Put on your marketing hat. You’ve just received a call from the
president. You’re to head up a new government-sponsored commu-
nications program to replace the current hodgepodge of a program,
which has had little impact on reducing demand.
   Obviously, some changes are called for if progress is to be made.
And progress is desperately needed. After years of effort and billions
of dollars spent in law enforcement, it would appear there is only
one long-term way to decrease the use and sale of drugs in America:
You have to find a way to decrease demand.
   Decreasing supply only increases the price and profit potential for
suppliers willing to take the risks. Since the product cost is so low
and the return so high, experience shows that there is no effective
way, outside of legalizing drugs, that will force illegal drug suppliers
out of business. For every drug dealer you shut down, two will open
up. So what’s the strategy?

Study the Trends
Let’s start with a quick examination of the trends in substance
abuse. As with any problem, you don’t just focus on the product at
hand. You try to get a feeling for the entire category. We call this
the context of the market.
    In this case, the smoking of cigarettes offers important parallels
to the problem of drug consumption. Like drugs, cigarettes intro-
duce a foreign substance into the body. They can be addictive, and
it is widely accepted that they are bad for you. In fact, around 1990,
they were reported to kill 50 times as many Americans as drugs do.
    The main difference between cigarettes and drugs is that ciga-
rettes are legal, as well as an important revenue source for the gov-
ernment. Thus, just about everyone knows that cigarettes are bad
for you, yet cigarette sales, while declining, have not shown a steep
                                                Shift the Battlefield   227

decline. (Today, cigarettes kill only 45 times as many Americans as
drugs do.)
    It would appear that the educational approach that presents the
health hazards of smoking has failed to overcome the image en-
hancement that cigarette companies have promised in their adver-
tising. Eliminating cigarette advertising from the broadcast medium
has hurt the industry’s ability to launch new brands, but the message
gets through via a wide array of media still available to cigarette
advertisers.
    On the basis of the cigarette lesson, you can probably surmise
that if drugs continue to be perceived as ‘‘in,’’ an educational, ‘‘bad
for you’’ approach might not be a good tactic to dramatically reduce
demand. The same can be said for the advertising industry’s effort—
to the tune of hundreds of millions of dollars—which, for the most
part, also says ‘‘bad for you’’ in a number of different ways.

Shift the Battlefield
What this examination of the cigarette experience shows you is that
the traditional ‘‘top-down’’ approach of telling people what’s bad for
them rarely works. It’s time to shift the battlefield.
   What appears to be more of an influence on the consumption of a
product is its social message. (Before World War II, for example,
every star in a Hollywood movie smoked. Today, few smoke on film
but even that few is too many.)
   This insight offers an opportunity. Unlike cigarette manufac-
turers, drug producers and sellers cannot use advertising to promote
a fashionable image for their drugs. On the other hand, the govern-
ment can use advertising to make drugs less and less fashionable to
use. If America runs true to form, this will dramatically reduce de-
mand. When a product is ‘‘out’’ in America, it doesn’t sell. Now to
your important decision: What concept can you use to make drugs
unfashionable?
   When you study the situation, one obvious repositioning stra-
tegy jumps out. It has been widely demonstrated that drug use is a
228    You Can Differentiate Anything

one-way street: Heavy users are in danger of losing their jobs, their
friends, their families, their self-esteem, their freedom, and eventu-
ally their lives.
   What this sets up is a simple play on words that can be a two-
edged sword against the drug dealers, pointing out the bad things
that drugs can do to you while presenting them in the context of a
social image or a negative attribute.
   The differentiating idea: Drugs are for losers.

America Dislikes Losers
If the perception that drugs are for losers can be established, a mor-
tal blow at demand will be struck. If America disdains anything, it’s
a loser. Underdogs are acceptable, but a winner is what America
admires most and what everyone aspires to be.
    Now it’s time for you to turn your repositioning idea into a na-
tional strategy by figuring out who should deliver this message. The
natural choice is to have ex-drug users or relatives of users tell their
sad and moving stories. The natural medium is television, with its
emotional and personal impact.
    Celebrities and sports stars who have had publicized drug prob-
lems could be asked to participate in this program. Examples: Ex-
baseball-star Denny McLain might talk about how he went to jail
and lost his freedom, or John Belushi’s wife might talk about how
her husband lost his life
    At the end of every commercial, the subject would look in the
camera and say, ‘‘Drugs are for losers.’’ As more and more famous
and infamous people deliver that message, America will begin to
see that drugs take you down, not up.
    When this happens, the demand for drugs will start to shift
downward, and the drug business will become a lot less profitable.
This is bound to make organized crime think twice about the risk/
return ratio in the drug business.
                                      Making Over America’s Image   229

Making Over America’s Image
In today’s hypercompetitive world, countries are becoming impor-
tant brands in terms of tourism and business, and it doesn’t take too
many trips out in the world to sense that Brand America is in
trouble.
   If you’re interested in the numbers, the Pew Research people
have them all. The basic message: America’s image is in a dramatic
decline just about everywhere. This is not a good thing in a world
being driven by the global economy. Whether you’re Boeing, Apple
Computer, General Electric, or Ford Motor, it’s not helpful when
people dislike the country of origin. It gives your global competitors
an emotional edge.

The State Department Calls
No one appreciates this more than Brand America’s salesforce,
namely the State Department.
   Just before the Iraq war we were asked by them to develop a mar-
keting program to help diplomatic officers better sell America, its
products and its efforts to the world community. Obviously, it’s
something that is desperately needed. The only differentiating idea
attached to the United States is a terrible one: ‘‘The world’s last
superpower.’’ All this expression does is to portray us as the world’s
bully. And some of the administration’s language and policies only
reenforced this perception. In China, for example, the media often
refers to America as the global police.

Differentiating with Benefits
Coming up with a better marketing concept was fairly simple. Go to
the world community with a program that offered more benefits, not
one with threats. The strategy was to have President George W.
230   You Can Differentiate Anything

Bush say to the world that we are shifting from self-vision to a new
world vision simply expressed as: ‘‘Helping the world to be a safer,
freer, and more prosperous place.’’ That’s what everyone wants, and
we can help deliver those benefits. Here’s a simple, but wise, obser-
vation as to why this approach should work. It’s from the New York
Times columnist Thomas Friedman as he wrote, ‘‘If you convey to
people that you want them to succeed, they will take criticism.
If you convey that you hold them in contempt, they won’t listen
to you.’’ Taking ownership of those attributes would truly make
America different.

Supporting Policies
We even showed the diplomatic officers how they could use this
strategy to help sell policies. The Road Map to Peace in the Palesti-
nian/Israeli conflict was about security. Reconstructing Afghanistan
was about prosperity as was supporting Turkey for membership in
the European Union. Supporting women’s rights in the Middle East
and the youth in Iran was about freedom. Every basic policy worth
pursuing could be supported by this overall concept.
    Interestingly, many programs in the State Department were al-
ready heading in this direction. In terms of safety, for example,
America’s public diplomacy brought in conflict resolution experts
to work with and train people in techniques to prevent violence in
South Africa. In terms of prosperity, a faulty legal system scares off
investors. public diplomacy assisted Chile in promoting judicial re-
form and a transparent legal system. They have become one of
South America’s most prosperous economies.
    There are some that might argue with this idea. Why is the world
our problem? Why make the world better? The reasons are obvious.
From a business point-of-view, a more orderly world will decrease
our enormous expenses in security and defense. It will expand our
income via trade and thus increase our employment. In other words,
it’s good for business, and it’s good for America.
                                       Differentiating the Democrats   231

The Right People in the Room
Unfortunately, as we warned the State Department, you need the
right people in the room to sell a strategy. You needed all the top
people, starting with the CEO. (See Chapter 26.) And, at that time,
America’s top management was preoccupied with invading Iraq,
not improving America’s image.
   The top people would be in a good position to increase our efforts
and investments in public diplomacy. We’ve let this function dra-
matically slide in recent years. A former Russian foreign minister
made an important observation, ‘‘America is like a big business that
decided it doesn’t need a PR department. Every business needs PR.
Even a monopoly needs PR.’’
   Our only concern is whether or not they will be selling the right
thing. ‘‘Democracy,’’ as nice as it sounds to us, is not what everyone
wants. (For example, try selling that idea in China.) What people
do want are the benefits of a good democracy: security, freedom,
and prosperity. And of the three, our bet is that prosperity would be
the most popular. That would be a good choice because it is the
ultimate weapon in the war on terrorism.

Differentiating the Democrats
The final case study on differentiating anything started with a call
from Nancy Pelosi. She was interested in developing a strategy for
the Democratic Party that could be used during the 2006 elections.
Being concerned citizens about the incompetence of the Republi-
can administration, we took on the assignment.
   As you saw in Chapter 9, there are four steps to differentiation
that we carefully took the Democratic Party through. This process
starts with step one, the competition and looks to attack at a point
of weakness. This point wasn’t hard to determine because the Re-
publican Party was aggressively pushing its base. (Rich, white, and
Christian conservative.) They were governing from the right as
232   You Can Differentiate Anything

opposed to doing what is right. They could be accused of catering to
a narrow slice of their ideological constituency at the expense of the
vast majority of Americans.
    Step two was to look for the differentiating idea. There was
an opportunity to seize the middle ground by attacking at the
weakness in the Republican strategy of governing for their right
wing base. As the syndicated columnist E. J. Dionne Jr. wrote,
‘‘If there is a line for the opposition party to draw in politics
now, it concerns whether government will defend the interests
of the few or the interests of the many.’’ The best way to ex-
press that difference: ‘‘Good governance for all, not just for the
few.’’ The benefit of this strategy is that in a democracy, no one
wants to be ignored. They expect their government to take into
consideration their needs and desires. They don’t like to see a
government bought by special interests.
    Step three is the credentials or proving your point. The Demo-
cratic Party has a long history of being the inclusive party. Social
Security, Civil Rights, Affirmative Action are all examples of gov-
ernance for all, not just for some. The most dramatic proof was
when, some years ago, the Democratic Party decided to govern for
black and white, the Democratic South became the Republican
South.
    Step four is that of communications. The Democratic Party must
bring this strategy to life in all forms of communications. This
means clearly presenting what good governance for all means in
terms of principles and legislation.

What Happened?
Nancy Pelosi tried to implement much of this thinking into party
efforts as was feasible. And, sure enough, the Independents and
middle ground Democrats and Republicans rose up and put the
Democrats in charge in the House and the Senate. After all this
                                       Differentiating the Democrats   233

incompetence, polls indicated that the public was ready to hear
about a message of better governance.
   The future? As in marketing, the trick is to execute this strategy.
That’s never easy in Washington where it is like herding cats. As
Lou Gerstner of IBM fame once said, ‘‘Strategy is execution.’’ That
brings us to the final chapter on who does the executing?
                         C H A P T E R

                                26

           Who Is in Charge
           of Differentiation?

T
       op management has to be in charge of making sure that a
       differentiating strategy is generated, communicated, and
       maintained. In other words, the CEO has to be involved.
   And yet, all too often the ‘‘right strategy’’ is taken for granted.
Top management assumes that all those experienced marketing
people and advertising agencies have all that stuff worked out. So
they go back to working on their problems with the board or making
sure that next year’s numbers look good.
   And the problems begin.

                                235
236    Who Is in Charge of Differentiation?

Why CEOs Fail
Fortune magazine let some management guru write about what the
magazine called failed CEOs. Their definition was executives ‘‘that
were pushed, saw their company bought, or left a company that had
lost its way.’’1
   In this analysis, the author didn’t even list ‘‘bad strategy’’ as one
of the ‘‘six habits of highly ineffective CEOs.’’ And, in fact, he went
on to say that the majority of problems were caused by bad execu-
tion, not high concept boners. To Fortune, if you put the right per-
son in the right job, all will be well.
   We’re not so sure about that. When we looked at their lineup of
CEO failures, we saw more lousy strategy than lousy execution.
Here’s a sampling:

   Robert Allen (AT&T, 1988 to 1997): Here’s a CEO who never
      took advantage of AT&T’s leadership position, which was the
      ultimate differentiator. Instead he tried on several occasions to
      get the company into computers. The efforts failed and cost
      billions. Bad strategy.
   Joseph Antonini (Kmart, 1987 to 1995): He tried to compete
      with Wal-Mart on price and lost. It’s tough to go against an
      organization like that without a structural advantage. He
      needed a strategy beyond price to attract people to Kmart. He
      had none.
   Al Dunlap (Sunbeam, 1996 to 1998): From his performance,
      Chairman Al wouldn’t know a good differentiating idea if
      he fell over it. All he knew how to do was pass out his book,
      cut costs, and try to dazzle Wall Street. All show and no
      strategy.
   Carl Hahn (Volkswagen, 1982 to 1992): Hahn watched VW’s
      market share in the United States plummet while he tried to
      sell fast, big, expensive VWs to a market that wanted small,
      economical, and reliable VWs à la Beetle. Those were the
                                                     Missing the Point   237

     attributes that they owned in the mind. He stubbornly pursued
     a failed strategy.
    Arnold Langbo (Kellogg’s, 1992 to 1999): Too many brands, too
     many businesses such as bagels and frozen lasagna, inflated pri-
     ces, and no explanation of what makes Kellogg’s the best cere-
     als. Very little strategy.
    Robert Palmer (DEC, 1992 to 1998): Palmer failed to execute a
     ‘‘being the latest with 64-bit’’ differentiating strategy. It was
     DEC’s only hope to stay alive. This lack of a next-generation
     strategy is why DEC, as a company, is no longer with us.
    Michael Quinlan (McDonald’s, 1987 to 1998): Quinlan fell into
     the ‘‘everything for everybody’’ trap and failed to use their
     hamburger leadership to full advantage. McPizza, McLean,
     Mac at Night—it was all a ‘‘Mc’’ too far and very little strategy.
    John Sculley (Apple Computer, 1983 to 1993): Sculley failed to
     preempt and maximize the ease-of-use attribute that Apple en-
     joyed in both their operating system and their PCs. He was
     slow on the next generation, and he bet big on the overcompli-
     cated Newton and lost. He should have stayed at Pepsi.
    Robert Stempel (GM, 1990 to 1992): Stempel inherited a com-
     pany that had destroyed its well-differentiated brands by pric-
     ing them alike and making them look alike. He didn’t
     recognize that this was a losing strategy. In no time he was
     toast.

Missing the Point
So what does it take to get things done? Says the article in Fortune:
‘‘People first, strategy second.’’ In fact, ‘‘Strategy is less than half the
battle.’’
   Talk about missing the point by a country mile.
   Whatever happened to having the idea first, then assembling the
people and machinery to make it a reality?
238   Who Is in Charge of Differentiation?

   The strategic idea—the differentiating idea—is easily half the
battle, not to mention the more important half.
   Without the powerful single idea, all the motivation and people
skills in the world aren’t going to help.
   The problem with articles like this is that they let some guru with
a consulting business make a case for what just isn’t true. And
what’s worse, it encourages others to take good strategy for granted.

What Really Went Wrong?
You can quickly see what happened. This group of executives didn’t
have execution problems, they had ‘‘what to do and not to do’’
problems. And they were probably misled by a lot of high-priced
managers armed with brilliant presentations and big promises.
   The problem with many companies is that top people often don’t
get involved in the strategic process. When we presented the ‘‘64-bit
strategy’’ at DEC, Bob Palmer was nowhere to be found. He didn’t go
to meetings like that. Well, maybe he should have, because a CEO
has to understand what’s on the table and what his options are, if any.
   Most big moves often challenge old businesses. The result is a
reluctance to foster the new ideas. Peter Drucker calls this ‘‘slaugh-
tering tomorrow’s opportunity on the altar of yesterday.’’

Why CEOs Must Be Involved
What you encounter often in the midlevel of companies are people
with a bad case of personal agenda. They are trying very hard to put
their mark on something so as to progress up the corporate ladder.
They make their decisions based not on what’s good for the com-
pany but on what’s good for their careers.
  Or worse than that, they are trying to avoid mistakes that could
put their careers in peril.
  We once developed a strategy for a company that essentially
challenged their soon-to-be-announced effort to try to sell a new
generation of computer systems. At the end of the session, an
                                               One That Went Right   239

executive looked me in the eye and said: ‘‘Where were you when I
needed you two years ago?’’ (Two years ago, this bad decision was
sent to the board of directors for initial approval.)
   Even though this executive now realized it was the wrong deci-
sion, he was saying that he couldn’t admit to a mistake of that mag-
nitude. Understandable from his point of view, but tragic from the
company’s point of view. Especially when you consider that a com-
petitor took the same strategy and built a multibillion-dollar busi-
ness around it.
   Only the CEO was in a position to change the plans, and he
wasn’t in the room.

‘‘I’m in Charge’’
Another problem you may encounter is the ‘‘corporate ego’’ of your
managers or your advertising agency. There might be an interesting
‘‘outside’’ idea on the table, but they may have a problem with an
outsider doing their job. ‘‘After all,’’ they’ll say to themselves, ‘‘I’m
in charge. If I accept someone else’s thinking, my superiors will
think less of me.’’
   This can be a very difficult situation. We’ve discovered that,
rather than dismiss an outside recommendation out of hand, this
type of person invariably adds his or her own thinking to the situa-
tion. Makes his or her contribution, so to speak. What results is a
modified strategy that isn’t really the same. It’s like changing a
cake’s recipe—it may look the same, but it sure doesn’t taste like
the same cake. (Advertising agencies are especially good at this
kind of modification.)
   The higher you are presenting in an organization, the less likely
you are to come across these kinds of ego problems.

One That Went Right
Jim Manzi, the former CEO of Lotus Development Corporation,
was also faced with a bleak future. Microsoft had preempted the
240   Who Is in Charge of Differentiation?

next generation of spreadsheet software. Their 1-2-3 spreadsheet
was in trouble, as was Lotus.
   Microsoft Excel had a big difference with its Windows operating
system.
   Manzi went to the meetings, listened to the outside ideas, and
decided to pursue the recommended ‘‘groupware strategy,’’ or soft-
ware for networks of computers. His difference was that he was first
with a software called Notes, the first successful groupware program.
   Five brutal years later and at a cost of half a billion dollars, Jim
Manzi had the next big thing and the momentum to go with it.
   IBM bought the company for $3.5 billion and everyone was hap-
py. The right strategy paid off.

The Best Do Their Own
When you study success, you tend to find that the best CEOs do
their own strategy. Herb Kelleher at Southwest Airlines, arguably
the industry’s most successful airline, calls the shots. And no one is
better at being different than Herb.
    Jack Welch certainly couldn’t run a company the size of GE by
going to the meetings and being involved with strategy. But he had
extraordinary longevity in top executives. Almost all of his team
ran the different business units for an average of 12 years. He trusted
his top people to figure out how to be different.
    John Schnatter of Papa John’s Pizza does his own strategy, as we
suspect does Bill Gates of Microsoft. And we’re sure that Martha
Stewart called the shots on her rapidly spreading decorating and
lifestyle empire until her legal problems. These are young entrepre-
neurs who are building their businesses and they don’t trust their
strategy to middle-level executives. (Can you blame them?)

A Success from Finland
In 1992, forty-one-year-old Jorma Ollila was made CEO of a strug-
gling Finnish conglomerate named Nokia. He unloaded pieces of
                                           A Successful Lady’s View   241

the old company, such as computers, cables, and TVs, and concen-
trated its resources on mobile communications. He sensed that with
some sacrifice, Nokia could seize a leadership role.
   He set out to be different. As the digital phone standard took off
in Europe, he was ready with easy-to-use phones equipped with the
very different trademark TV-shaped screen. New differences were
quickly introduced, such as longer-life phones, fashion colors, and
even customized differences for major markets (louder rings in Asia,
different standards, voice recognition where keyboards are a
problem).
   Quickly Nokia built up the perception of being the most ad-
vanced mobile phone on the market. (Nice difference.) Now
Nokia is the world’s leading mobile phone. (A better
difference.)
   Ollila was in charge of keeping Nokia different. To do it, he
pushed the company to churn out new models of phones at a dizzy-
ing rate. He’s layed the infrastructure for a new wider-bandwidth
wireless technology called ‘‘the Third Generation.’’ (Analog and
digital were the first two generations.)
   It looks to us as if Nokia could be the leader for a while. Ollila did
things the right way.

A Successful Lady’s View
No one does the differentiating thing in magazines better than Tina
Brown. When she was at Vanity Fair, she pushed celebrity journals
to the limit. She created a big stir at the staid New Yorker. Critics
and fans alike admit that she can make a splash and draw attention
to her products.
   But what we were struck with was her five lessons on marketing
that were reported in the Wall Street Journal:2

  1. Trust your instincts. I will listen to anybody . . . . But I usually
     come to my senses and try to get back in touch with what I
     initially thought. (She does her own strategy.)
242   Who Is in Charge of Differentiation?

  2. Have a strong visual identity . . . . Doing bits and pieces of
     everybody else . . . isn’t going to help you. (Your product
     should be different.)
  3. Throw a party. A launch needs all the help it can get. It is a
     big country. You have to reach a lot of people. (You have to
     differentiate in the mind.)
  4. Be creative with spending. Find new talent and package your
     product in a different way. If you don’t have a (large) budget,
     you have to have a point of view. (Once again, be different.)
  5. Utilize your existing talent in different ways. With writers, for
     instance . . . the trick is finding what turns them on . . . mak-
     ing them feel they can write about topics they couldn’t before.
     (One more time, be different.)

   Here’s a very successful lady who is obviously in charge of strat-
egy and a strong believer in being different. Not bad thinking for a
magazine editor. She gets it.
   In 1966, Peter Drucker defined leadership when he wrote: ‘‘The
foundation of effective leadership is thinking through the organiza-
tion’s mission, defining it and establishing it, clearly and visibly.’’
   Well, we’re now in a new millennium and an age of killer com-
petition. We would change only one word in that definition to
bring it up to date: ‘‘The foundation of effective leadership is think-
ing through the organization’s difference, defining it and establish-
ing it, clearly and visibly.’’
   Rosser Reeves would have agreed with that revision.
                            EPILOGUE

O
        nce again, we’ve visited the subject of differentiation.
        Hopefully, dear reader, you’ve gotten the message about
        just how important this strategy is and a better understand-
ing of how to implement it.
   We feel compelled to leave you with some words from Peter
Drucker, the father of business consulting. Many years ago, he
wrote:

  Because the purpose of business is to create a customer, the business enter-
  prise has two—and only these two—basic functions: marketing and inno-
  vation. Marketing and innovation produce results; all the rest are costs.
  Marketing is the distinguishing, unique function of the business.

   Tragically, as the years passed, that advice was ignored or never
seen. CEOs spent very little time with the marketing function. Few
listened to David Packard’s (of Hewlett-Packard fame) advice:
‘‘Marketing is too important to be left to the marketing people.’’
Most simply delegated this function and focused on what Drucker
said were expense items—things like finance, organization, custom-
ers, boards, manufacturing, and so on. And very few, with the ex-
ception of someone like Apple’s Steve Jobs, took the time to
understand the process and be actively involved.
   The CEO should be the ultimate, chief marketing officer if he or
she is to follow Drucker’s advice. Top management has to be in-
volved in doing the right thing by effectively differentiating or

                                     243
244   Epilogue

distinguishing the company or product, and defending that strategy
against all those marketing folks who want to make their marks.
   This brings us to the number one question that we receive as we
talk about this subject to audiences around the world, ‘‘How do I
involve my top management in this process of differentiation? Is
there any shortcut to follow?’’
   There is only one answer: ‘‘Get them to read this book.’’
                           NOTES

Chapter 1 The Tyranny of Choice
1. Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 1998 annual report, pp. 4–6.
2. Interview with the authors, March 29, 1999.
3. Barry Schwartz, The Paradox of Choice (New York: HarperCol-
   lins, 2004), p. 13.
4. James Glieck, Faster (New York: Pantheon Books, 1999).

Chapter 2 The Creeping Commoditization of
Categories
1. Harvard Business Review (March 2002).

Chapter 3 Whatever Happened to the Unique
Selling Proposition?
1. Rosser Reeves, Reality in Advertising (New York: Knopf, 1960),
   pp. 47–48.
2. ‘‘Creative Differences,’’ Advertising Age (November 17, 1997): 1.

Chapter 4 Reinventing the Unique Selling
Proposition
1. Interview with the authors, March 19, 1999.

                               245
246   Notes

2. Tara Parker-Pope, ‘‘Stopping Diaper Leaks Can Be Nasty
   Business, P&G Shows Its Rivals,’’ Wall Street Journal (April 5,
   1999).
3. ‘‘Differentiation or Salience,’’ Journal of Advertising Research
   (November–December 1997): 7–14.
4. Robert McMath, What Were They Thinking? (New York: Times
   Business, 1998), p. 86.
5. ‘‘Differentiation or Salience,’’ op. cit.

Chapter 5 Quality and Customer Orientation
Are Rarely Differentiating Ideas
1. Jan Berry, ‘‘Consumers Keep the Upper Hand,’’ American Demo-
   graphics (September 1998).
2. Christopher W. Hart and Michael D. Johnson, Marketing Man-
   agement (Spring 1999).
3. Leonard Berry and A. Parasuramy, Marketing Services (New
   York: Free Press, 1991), p. 137.
4. ‘‘The Return of Michael Porter,’’ Fortune (February 1, 1999):
   135–137.

Chapter 6       Creativity Is Not a Differentiating
Idea
1. ‘‘Ad Accountability,’’ Advertising Age (March 22, 1999): 26.
2. ‘‘Speakers at Four A’s Meeting Urge Agencies to Meet Compe-
   tition from Management Consultants,’’ New York Times (April
   26, 1999).
3. Interview with the authors, March 29, 1999.
4. Sergio Zyman, The End of Marketing as We Know It (New York:
   Harper Business, 1999).
                                                       Notes   247

Chapter 7 Price Is Rarely a Differentiating Idea
1. David Ogilvy, ‘‘Fiftieth Anniversary Luncheon Speech,’’
   Advertising Research Foundation, New York City, March 18,
   1986.
2. ‘‘Siberian Soft-Drink Queen Outmarkets Coke and Pepsi,’’ Wall
   Street Journal (August 23, 1999).
3. David Cowan, ‘‘Free For All,’’ Wall Street Journal (July 28,
   1999).

Chapter 10 Differentiation Takes Place in the
Mind
1. Journal of Consumer Marketing.
2. ‘‘The Logic of Product Line Extension,’’ Harvard Business Review
   (November–December 1994).

Chapter 11 Being First Is a Differentiating Idea
1. Frank Sulloway, Bound to Rebel (New York: Vintage Books,
   1997).
2. ‘‘A New Brand of Bottled Water with a Twist,’’ New York Times
   (June 3, 1999): C10.

Chapter 13 Leadership Is a Way to
Differentiate
1. Hans and Michael Eysenck, Mindwatching (London: Prion/
   Carlton Publishing, 1997).
2. ‘‘Ads Hit Target,’’ USA Today (January 15, 1996): 6B.
248   Notes

Chapter 14        Heritage Is a Differentiating Idea
1. Interview with the authors, March 29, 1999.
2. Ted Anthony, ‘‘In a Dizzying Market, America’s Oldest Brands
   Court Continued Prosperity,’’ Associated Press Newswires
   (March 22, 1999).
3. Ibid.
4. ‘‘DDB Worldwide Hopes to Build on the Legacy of 50 Years of
   Industry Innovation,’’ New York Times (June 1, 1999): C12.
5. ‘‘The Beauty of Global,’’ Business Week (June 28, 1999): 70.
6. David Yale, New York Times (July 14, 1999).

Chapter 15 Market Specialty Is a
Differentiating Idea
1. Robert Kiener, ‘‘Hitting on All Cylinders,’’ Nation’s Business
   (June 1999): 57–58.

Chapter 16        Preference Is a Differentiating Idea
1. Robert Cialdini, ‘‘Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion’’
   (William Morrow, 1993).
2. Randy Cohen, ‘‘Madison Avenue Medicine,’’ New York Times
   Magazine (June 27, 1999): 20.
3. Stanley Resor, ‘‘The Spirit of Emulation,’’ Printer’s Ink (April
   1929).

Chapter 17 How a Product Is Made Can Be a
Differentiating Idea
1. Putting Patients First (San Francisco, Jossey-Bass, 2003).
                                                       Notes   249

Chapter 18 Being the Latest Can Be a
Differentiating Idea
1. Clayton Christensen, The Innovator’s Dilemma: When New Tech-
   nologies Cause Great Firms to Fail.
2. ‘‘Nothing but Net,’’ Business Week (August 2, 1999): 72.

Chapter 19 Hotness Is a Way to Differentiate
1. ‘‘Critics Agree,’’ New York Times (March 15, 1999): C14.

Chapter 20 Growth Can Destroy
Differentiation
1. ‘‘Starbucks Holders Wake Up, Smell the Coffee, and Sell,’’
   Wall Street Journal (July 2, 1999): B3.

Chapter 22 Being Different in Different Places
1. ‘‘How McDonald’s Tailors Its Brand Identity to Local Markets,’’
   Campaign (August 1997): 29.
2. ‘‘Brewing a Worldly Brand,’’ Andersen Consulting Outlook (June
   1999).
3. Bhavna Mistry, ‘‘On a Global Mission,’’ Marketing Event
   (October 9, 1997): 41.

Chapter 23 Maintaining Your Difference
1. Fortune (September 20, 1999): 220.
250   Notes

Chapter 26 Who Is in Charge of
Differentiation?
1. ‘‘Why CEOs Fail,’’ Fortune (June 21, 1999): 69.
2. ‘‘Finding the Seduction Point,’’ Wall Street Journal (July 26,
   1999): 1.
                           Index

22 Immutable Laws of Marketing,     Air conditioning, 100
     The, 5, 220                    Allen, Robert, 236
3M, 121                             Aloha Airlines, 40
7-Eleven stores, 188                Aloha Pass, 39
                                    Alpert, Hershel, 74
ABB (Asea Brown Boveri), 157        Alperts Furniture Showplace,
ABC, 5                                   73–74
AccuRay, 157                        Amazon, 71, 72
Acura, 3                            American Airlines, Advantage
Advertising:                             Program, 39–40
  cost of, 80–81                    American Association of
  creativity in, 45–53                   Advertising Agencies, 48
  expense of, 80–81                 American Motors, 2
  exposure to, 84–85                American Society for Quality
  as a tool for growth, 47               Control, 37
  unique selling propositions       Americare, 3
     (U.S.P.), 19–25                Ames, 108, 208
  vagueness in, 46–47               Anacin, 28
Advertising Age, 17, 47, 222        Analysis, problems with,
Advil, 23, 95                            30–31
Aetna/US Healthcare, 3              Animal crackers, 164
Airborne, 100–101                   Antonini, Joseph, 236

                                  251
252    Index

Apple, 237                           Benetton, 139
  Newton, 87                         Bentley, 3
Apple Computer, 81                   Bernbach, Bill, 48, 62, 130
Armani, 201                          Berry, Leonard, 40
Aron Streit Inc., 161                Black & Decker, 159
Asea Brown Bovari (ABB), 157         Blockbuster Video, 139
Aston Martin, 3, 223                 Bloodless surgery, 111–112
AT&T, 59–60, 194, 236                Blue Cross, 3
Attributes:                          BMW, 3, 17, 23, 43, 61, 187, 223
  automobiles and, 105–106             repositioning and, 110
  creating, 111–114                  Boasting, importance of, 175–176
  credit cards and, 107              Boeing, 209–210
  definition of, 103                 Bose Wave radio, 32–33
  environment and, 114–115           Bottled water, 101–102
  fast food and, 108–109             Bragging, power of, 118–119
  negative, 110–111                  Brand, building, step 1, 21
  ownership of, 103–115              Brand America, making over,
  owning, 104                             229–231
  retailing and, 107–108             Brand graveyard, 8
  water and, 109–110                 Brand Keys, Inc., 12, 18
Audi, 3                              Brand names, importance of, 96
Automobiles:                         Brands:
  attributes of, 105–106               differentiated, 13
  differentiation, 14, 16–17           human, 13
  leadership among, 123                leadership in, 122–123
Automotive industry, choices in,       and promotions, 60–61
     2–3, 8–9                        Brand science, 21
Auto Zone, 68                        Breadth of line, 67–74
Avis, 49, 76, 211                    Bridgestone, 3
Axid, 168                            Brigg umbrella, 147
                                     Brite Tip, 157–158
Babies ‘‘R’’ Us, 68                  British Air, 78
Baby Superstore, 68                  British Department of Trade
Banana Republic, 140                      and Industry, 37
Banking industry, and mergermania,   Brooks Sports, 152
     17                              Brown, Tina, 241–242
Barnum’s Animals, 164                Bru, 109
Bass Pro Shop, 2                     Burberry, 201
Batesville caskets, 86, 164          Burger King, 149, 196, 208,
Becker beer, 147–148                      210–211
Beers, leaders in, 127                 attributes, and, 108–109
Being first, 93–102                  Business Travel News, 154
                                                         Index   253

BusinessWeek, 42, 133, 178        Chupa Chups, 123–124
Buzz marketing, 217–223           Church’s Chicken, 32, 177
                                  Cialdini, Robert, 146
Cabela’s, 2                       Cigna, 3
Cadillac, 65                      Circuit City, 208
Caldor, 108                       Citibank, 173
Camel cigarettes, 152             Clio awards, curse of, 17
Campeau, 139                      Coca-Cola, 49, 79, 89, 104, 183, 187
Campsa, 187, 188–189                and Crazy Cola, 63
Capitol One, 173                  Cohen, Randy, 151
Carrier, Willis, 100              Colgate, 27, 213
Cars:                             Columbia (healthcare), 3
  choices in buying, 2–3, 8–9     Columbia Savings Bank, 35
  differentiation, 14, 16–17      Commerce Bank, 35
  top selling, 9                  Commitment versus satisfaction,
Category:                              41–42
  commoditization, 11–18          Commodities, definition of, 13
  killers, 67–68                  Commoditization, category, 11–18
  ownership of, 118               Compaq, 58, 170
CEO, differentiation and the,     CompUSA, 68
     235–242                      Computer industry, choices in, 8–9
Chanel, 153, 201                  Conde Nast Traveler, 146, 154
Change, implementing, 212         Conglomerations, 189–190
Charles Schwab, 58–59, 148, 172   Consumer electronics, 4
Charmin, 142                      Consumer Reports, 7
Chenango Memorial Hospital, 112   Consumers Digest, 7
Chick-Fil-A, 32, 177              Continental, 3
Chile, beer in, 147–148           Contrary moves, 208–215
China:                            Convergence, 194–195
  choice in, 4                    Copernicus, 17
  cognac and, 154                 Corbett Canyon, 176
  heroes and, 153                 Cordis, 157–158
  national food brands and, 4     Corning, 121
Chiquita, 25                      Corona beer, 196, 205
Choice:                           Cortopassi, Dino, 159–160, 162
  emotion and, 49–50              Corvette, 196
  explosion of, 6                 Costco, 57
  an industry, 5–7                Cowan, David, 64
  motivation to buy and, 7        Cox, Bob, 35
  spreading, 4                    Craftsman, 208
  tyranny of, 9–10                Crain, Rance, 47
Chrysler, 2, 3, 94, 123, 208      Crazy Cola, 63
254    Index

Creativity, 45–53                       category, 14–17
  defense of, 47                        CEO and, 235–242
  logic and, 76–80                      growth and, 181–190
  overusing, 50–52                      heritage and, 125–135
  trap, 46                              hotness and, 175–180
Credit cards, attributes and, 107       leadership and, 117–124
Crest, 27, 156, 196, 212–213            market specialty as, 137–144
Cross pens, 127                         next generation products and,
Customer defections, 37                    165–173
Customer Loyalty Engagement             percentage of, 14–16
     Index, 12–13                       preference and, 145–154
Customer orientation, as a              price and, 55–65
     differentiating idea, 37–43        problems, 12
Customer satisfaction, war for,         product development and,
     37–38                                 155–164
                                        sacrifice and, 191–197
Daewoo, 189–190                         steps to, 75–82
Dannon, 205                           DiGiorno Pizza, 158
DDB Worldwide Communications,         Digital Equipment Corporation
     129–130                               (DEC), 170–171, 172
DEC, 170–171, 172, 237, 238           Discounters, 68–69
Decision making, raw material for,    Disney, 201
     22                               Division, law of, 5, 11
Dell, Michael, 209                    Dixiana, 60
Dell Computer, 58, 59, 170, 196       Dole, 25
Del Monte, 161, 162                   Domino’s, 91
Diageo, 220–221                       Dove soap, 158
Diaper market, 29–30                  Dow Chemical, 171
DieHard batteries, 208                Dowtherm 209, 171
Difference, maintaining, 207–215      Doyle Dane Bernbach, 129–130
Differentiate, breadth of line and,   Dreyer, William, 122
     67–74                            Drucker, Peter, 17, 238, 242, 243
Differentiating:                      Drugs, reducing use of, 225–228
  commodities and, 25                 Dunlap, Al, 236
  democrats and, 231–233              Dunlop, 3
  with feelers, 23–24                 Duracell, 140, 193, 195
  with intuitives, 23                 Dynastar, 158
  with sensors, 24
  with thinkers, 23                   ECO, 110
Differentiation:                      Edison, Thomas, 102
  attributes as a way to, 103–115     Edwards Lifescience, 121
  buzz and, 217–223                   Edy, Joseph, 122
                                                            Index   255

Ehrich, Terry, 141                   French’s, 139
Einstein, Albert, 86                 Fresh Samantha, 162
Emery AirFreight, 191                Friedman, Milton, 181
Emotions, myths about, 50            Friedman, Thomas, 230
Endorsements, 151–153                Functional risk, 88
Enrich lightbulb, 166–167            Fuzion, 3
ENSR, 140
Environment, attributes and,         Galbraith, John Kenneth, 89
     114–115                         Gallo, Ernest, 129
ESPN, line extensions and,           Gap, The, 139
     183–184                         Garden Ridge, 69
eToys, Inc., 70                      Gartner Group, 178
E-Trade, 173                         Gates, Bill, 240
Eveready, 140, 193                   Gatorade, 141
Evian, 94                            General, 3
Evolution, 214–215                   General Electric, 24, 138, 166–167,
Experts, in differentiation, 137          209–210, 240
Eysenck, Hans, 118                   General Foods, 200
Eysenck, Michael, 118                General Motors (GM), 2, 3, 17, 123,
                                          156, 180, 182, 208, 221, 237
Family businesses, 134                 advertising and, 82
Faster, 9–10                         Generic advantage, 96
Fast food, attributes and, 108–109   Gerstner, Lou, 233
Federal Express, 91, 96, 191, 197    Gevalia, 200
Federer, Roger, 53, 151              Gillette, 31–32, 98, 166, 187
Feelers, 23–24                         attributes and, 106–107
Ferrari, 17                          Gimbel’s, 139
Finland, 200                         Giovanni, A. P., 129
Firestone, 3                         Glassman, Richard, 101
Firstborns, 94–95                    Glieck, James, 9–10
Fishing, 2                           Globalization, rules, 204–205
Fit, importance of, 153              Global marketing, 199–206
Focus:                               Global markets, 3
   key to attributes, 104–105        Goizueta, Robert, 183
   losing, 89–90                     Goodrich, 3
Foot Locker, 59, 140, 195            Goodyear, 3
Forbes, 178                          Gore-tex, 121
Ford, 2, 3, 5, 17, 123               Granite Rock Company, 159
Fortune, 164, 178, 213, 237          GraniteXpress system, 159
Four Seasons, 154                    Greene, Joe, 49
Franzia, Teresa, 129                 Green Giant, 25
Free items, 64                       Griffin Hospital, 163–164
256    Index

Growth, differentiation and,           Huish Detergents, 133
    181–190                            Human brands, 13–14
Guts, 208                              Hunt-Wesson, 31
                                       Hyundai, 3
Hahn, Carl, 236
Halo effect, 105                       IBM, 76, 78, 240
Hamm, Mia, 151                         Ice cream, leadership in, 122
Handcrafted products, 162–163          Identity, undermining, 185
Hankook, 3                             Imitators, success of, 97–98
Haomen Brewery, 153                    India, marketing in, 203–204
Harley Davidson, 218                   Infiniti, 3
Harvard, 94                            ING Direct, 173
Harvard Business Review, 90            Ingredients:
  about customer defections, 37           high-tech, 156–157
Healthcare, choice in, 3–4                magic, 156
Health Maintenance Organization        Innovations, dramatizing, 157–158
     (HMO), 3                          Innovator’s Dilemma: When New
Heineken, 147–148, 203                      Technologies Cause Great Firms
Heinz, 118, 142, 161, 162                   to Fail, The, 172
Hellenic Institute of Marketing, 200   Insecurity, customer choice and,
Hellmann’s, 139                             145–146
Hemmings Motor News, 141               Intel, 28, 166–167
Heritage:                              Internet, free items on the, 64
  character and, 135                   Interstate Department Stores, 139
  location and, 130–131                IntraNetics, 113–114
  psychology of, 126                   Intuitives, 23
  updating and, 130                    iPhone, 180
Hertz, 24, 49, 79, 94                  iPod, 180, 222
  market leadership and, 120           Iron Computer, 82
Hewlett-Packard, 58, 94
Hillsdale College, 78                  Jaguar, 3
History, using, 170–171                James, Lebron, 53
Home Depot, 68, 69, 208                J.D. Power, 150–151, 178
Honda, 3                               Jeep, 3
Hoovers, 184                           Jobs, Steve, 81, 180, 243
Hopkins, Claude, 27–28                 Johnson & Johnson, 157–158
Hospital:                              Jordan, Michael, 53, 151, 153
  design, 163–164                      Journal of Advertising Research, 33
  surveys, 150–151                     Journal of Consumer Marketing,
Hotels, trendiest, 179                      90
Hotness strategy, 177–178              Joyce, Regna, 151
HSBC, 173                              Joy perfume, 64
                                                          Index   257

J.P. Morgan, 46                    Learning, 86
Jumbo Sports, 63                   Lechters, 68
J. Walter Thompson, 152            Lenzing, 121
                                   Leo Burnett, 202
Kaiser, 3                          Levi Strauss, 201
Keeper Springs Mountain Spring     Levitt, Theodore, 24, 33, 199, 225
     Water, 101–102                Lexus, 3, 43, 146, 151
Kelleher, Herb, 57, 211–212,       Liberia, 4
     240                           Limited, The, 139
Kellogg’s, 205, 237                Linear Technology, 121
Kenmore, 208                       Line extension, 182–183
Kennedy, Brian, 120                Listerine, 87
Kennedy, Robert F., Jr., 102       L. J. Hooker, 139
KFC, 32, 177, 195, 204             L.L.Bean, 2, 127
Kia, 3                             Locke, 163
Kimberly-Clark, 29                 Logic, creativity and, 76–80
Kleisner, Ted, 130                 Lollipop, leading, 123–124
Kmart, 57, 68, 208, 236            Longevity, 125–135
Kodak, 172–173                        price and, 60
Kraft, 138–139                     L’Oreal, 133
Kranson Industries, 101            Losers, list of, 97–98
Kumho, 3                           Lotus, 77, 212, 239–240
                                   Louis Vuitton, 201
Land Rover, 3                      Lucky Strike, 152
Langbo, Arnold, 237                Lutz, Bob, 208
Lange, 167–168                     Lux soap, 152, 205
Lasky, Michael, 29
Law:                               Magna International, 142–143
  of division, 5, 11               Malaysia, 162–163
  heritage and, 128–129            Malcolm Baldrige National Quality
  of resources, 99, 220                award, 41
Lazarus, Charles, 67               Manischewitz, 161
Lazarus, Richard and Bernice, 50   Manzi, Jim, 239–240
Lazarus, Shelly, 48                Marketing Imagination, The, 24
Leadership:                        Marketing Management, 38
  differentiation through,         Market leaders and price, 59–60
     117–124                       Markets, virgin, 41
  psychology of, 117–118           Markkula, Mike, 81
  sales and, 121                   Marlboro, 192
  science, 121                     Maserati, 3
  strength of, 122–123             Mass MoCA, 112–113
  technology, 121, 168             MasterCard, 107
258    Index

Mazda, 3                              Nabisco, 182–183
McDonald’s, 53, 149, 160, 183, 196,   National markets, versus global
     209, 211, 215, 237                    markets, 3
  attributes and, 108–109             Nestle, 201–202, 205
  global markets, 202–203, 204        Nestle, Henri, 201
MCI, 59–60                            New Coke, 50
McIlhenny, Paul C. P., 128            Newsday, 194
McMath, Robert, 30                    Newsweek, 94
Medicaid, 3                           New Yorker, 241
Mediprin, 95                          New York Times, 178
MedPartners, 3                        Next generation products,
Mennen, 87                                 165–173
Mercedes, 3, 17, 60, 151                problems with, 171–172
  repositioning, 110                  Nickola, 63
Mergermania, 17                       Nielsen Media Research, 222
Merrill Lynch, 59, 172                Nike, 59, 146, 151–152, 185, 187
Me-tooism, 28, 33                       slogans and, 53
Michelin, 3                           Nissan, 3
Michelob, 184, 193                    Nokia, 53, 240–241
Microprocessors, 166                  Noodle Kidoodle, 68
Microsoft, 240                        Nordstrom, 196
Microwaves, 169                         effects on banks, 40–41
Midwest Express Airlines, 43, 146     Nordstrom, William E., 42
Milacron, 121                         North Korea, 4
Milestone Scientific, 170             Nuprin, 95
Miller beer, 192
Mindwatching: Why We Behave the       Obsolescence, 166–167
     Way We Do, 118                   Ogilvy, David, 62
Minivans, 94                            and the power of the press, 150
Miracle-Gro, 23–24                    Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, 48
Mitsubishi, 3                         Oil of Olay, 201
Monetary risk, 88                     Oken, Jack, 222
Money, raising, 81                    Okidata, 194
Moog, Carol, 7, 50, 126               Ollila, Jorma, 240–241
Motrin, 95                            On Competition, 42–43
Mouthwash, repositioning and, 110     Online brokers, 148–149
Mt. Olive, 142                        Operational effectiveness, 42–43
Muller, George, 14                    Opincar, John, 82
Multibrands, 187–188                  Oral-B, 24, 31
Multiplan, 3                          Originality, importance of, 95
Multiscan, 131                        Orville Redenbacher, 65
Myth, marketing, 41                   Orvis, 2
                                                              Index   259

Otis Elevator, 24                       Politics, heritage and, 128
Overcommunication, 84                   Polling, 149–150
Owen-Jones, Lindsay, 133                Polo, 185
Owens, Clive, 223                       Pond’s cold cream, 152
Oxford, 3                               Popeyes Chicken, 32, 177
                                        Popular Science Best of What’s New
Pacificare of California, 3–4                 award, 33
Packard, David, 243                     Porsche, 3, 193
Palmer, Robert, 237, 238                Porter, Michael, 42–43, 56
Palm Pilot, 87                          Positioning, 83–91
Pampero, 161–162                        Power of the press, 150
Papa John’s Pizza, 160, 240             Pratt & Whitney, 209
Paradox of Choice, The, 7–8             Preference:
Partnetships, 151–152                     as a differentiator, 145–154
Party City, 69                            hotels and, 154
Passikoff, Robert, 12                   Preferred Provider Organizations
Passion and Reason, 50                        (PPO), 3
Patents protection, 29–30               Prell, 215
Paulig coffee, 200                      Price, 162
Peer Review Organizations                 differentiation and, 55–65
     (PRO), 3                             market leaders and, 59–60
Pelosi, Nancy, 232                        ultimate, 64
Penthouse, 94                           Prilosec, 168–169
People, 94                              Principle of social proof, 146
Pepcid, 168                             Prius, 180
Pepsi, 49, 89, 95, 104, 196, 209, 215   Process Re-Engineering movement,
Perdue, Frank, 25                             12
Petronor, 187, 189                      Procter & Gamble, 29, 81, 212
PetSmart, 68                              versus Wal-Mart, 132–133
Philadelphia brand cream cheese,        Product development, 155–164
     139                                Product innovation, 158
Philip Morris, 192                      Products:
   advertising and, 81                    first, 93–102
Physical risk, 88                         number of new, 28–29
Physician Hospital Organizations          pioneer, 94
     (PHO), 3                           Promotions:
Piper Jaffray, 180                        attractions of, 61–62
Pirelli, 3                                brands and, 60–61
Pizza Hut, 91                           Prucare, 3
Placeholders, 11                        Psychological risk, 88
   category, 13                         Psychology, of heritage, 126
Playboy, 94                             Publicity, importance of, 81
260    Index

Public relations, using, 178–179          Royal Orchid program, 40
Publishing, specialist in, 141            Royal Selangor, 162
Puffery, 45, 46                           Runners World, 152
Pujals, Fernandez, 102                    Running Times, 152
Purchasing, reasons for, 87–88            Russia, soft drink costs, 62

Quality, as a differentiating idea,       Saab, 3
    35–37                                 Sacrifice, kinds of, 195–196
Quality Index, and healthcare,            Sales, leadership in, 121
    3–4                                   Satisfaction versus commitment,
Quality Institute International,                41–42
    Inc., on satisfaction, 42             Saturn, 3
Quinlan, Michael, 237                     Schnatter, john, 160, 240
Quorum, 3                                 Schultz, Howard, 186
                                          Schwartz, Barry, 7–8
Ralph Lauren, 150                         Science, leadership in, 121
Rauschenberg, Robert, 112                 Science Diet, 146
Ray-O-Vac, 140                            Scotch, 127
Reality in Advertising, 19, 45            Scott, 14, 90, 96
Reebok, 204                               Sculley, John, 237
Reeves, Rosser, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 27,   Seagram, 154
     45, 48, 62, 242                      Sears, 3, 208
Reinhard, Keith, 130                      Sence, John, 152
Report cards, healthcare, 3, 40           Sensors, 24
Repositioning, 110–111                    Service as a differentiator, 42–43
Repsol, 187                               Shopper friendly, making stores,
Resor, Stanley, 152                             69–70
Resources, 80                             Silicon Graphics, 157, 182
  law of, 99                              Slogans, 52–53
  raising, 81–82                          Smirnoff, 220
Restaurant News, 178                      Smuckers, 139
Restaurants, rating and reviewing, 2      SnackWell, 182–183
Retailing, attributes and, 107–108        Sobel, Robert, 128
Rich’s Frozen Foods, 134                  Social proof:
RisCasi & Davis, 128–129                     definition of, 146
Risk, perceived, 88–89                       principle of, 146
Ritz-Carlton, 154                         Social risk, 88
R.J. Reynolds, 98                         Soft drink cost in Russia, 63
Rolex, 65                                 Somalia, 4
Rolls-Royce, 3, 209                       Sony, 156
Roper Starch Worldwide, 36                Sotheby’s, 127
Rosen Motors, 99                          South Korea, 189–190
                                                          Index   261

Southwest Airlines, 57, 195–196,    Talmadge, Constance, 153
     211–212, 240                   Tanzania, 4
Spain, multibrands and, 187         Target, 57, 208
Specialists, hiring, 137–138          attributes and, 108
Specialists, retail, 139–140        Technology:
Specialization, 90–91                 disruptive, 172–173
  becoming generic, 141–142           leadership in, 121, 168
  as a differentiator, 137–144      Telecommunications, 189
  downside to, 142                  Telepizza, 102
  expertise and, 140–141            Television industry:
  publishing and, 141                 choice in, 5
  retail, 139–140                     growth of choice, 5
  weapons of, 140                   Thai Airways, 40
Speed cookers, 169                  Thinkers, 23
Sports Authority, 63, 68            Thinking About Management, 33
Sports retailing, problems with,    Time, 94
     63–64                          Timing, 96–97
Sprint, 60                          Tire Rack, The, 3
Standard stocking units (SKUs),     Tires, choice of, 3
     definition of 2                Total Quality movement, 12
Stanislaus Food Products, 159–160   Toyo, 3
Staples, 68, 139                    Toyota, 17
Starbucks, 185–186                    hybrid approach, 99
Steinway, 127                         Prius and, 180
Stempel, Robert, 237                Toys ‘‘R’’ Us, 67–68, 139, 213
Stevens, Harry M., 171              Trantolo & Trantolo, 128–129
Stewart, Martha, 240                TricorBraun, 101
Strategic positioning, 42–43        Troast, Robert C., 134
Stronach, Frank, 142–143            Tylenol, 146
Stupid ideas, 98–99                 Tyson, Esther, 178
Subaru, 3, 143, 153, 195
Sulloway, Frank, 94–95              Ultimate preference strategy, 148
Sumitomo, 3                         Unique selling proposition (USP),
Summit Bank, 35–36                       19–25
Sun, 94                               definition of, 19–20
Sunbeam, 236                          reinventing, 27–34
Superstores, 67–68                  Uniroyal, 3
Suzuki, 3                           United Airlines, 211
System innovation, 158–159          United Jersey Banks, 79–80
                                    US, 94
Tabasco, 127–128                    U.S. News & World Report, 178
Tagamet, 168                          rating healthcare in, 3
262    Index

Vanderbilt, Mrs. Reginald, 152          Welch, Jack, 240
Vanity Fair, 241                        Wellpoint, 3
Venture capital, 81                     Wells Fargo, 87, 127, 211
Venture capitalists and the Internet,   Welsh, Amanda, 222
     64                                 White Castle, 160, 195
VersaPak, 159                           Wine, heritage and, 129
Victoria’s Secret, 140                  Woods, Tiger, 53, 151, 153
Villavicencio, 110                      Word-of-Mouth Marketing
Visa, 107                                   Association (WOMMA),
Vlasic, 142                                 217–218
Volkswagen, 3, 48, 89, 142, 236          controlling, 219
Volvo, 3, 17, 87, 185, 186, 196         Wozniak, Steve, 81
  product difference, 32
Vuursteen, Karel, 203                   Xerox, 89, 91, 94, 96, 141

Wal-Mart, 57–58, 68, 70, 208            Yale, David, 135
 attributes and, 107, 108               Yokohama, 3
 Neighborhood Markets, 70               Young, Steve, 153
 versus Procter & Gamble,               Young & Rubicam, 21
    132–133
 toys and, 213                          Zagat, Tim and Nina, 2
Walt Disney/ABC Cable, 184              Zagat Surveys, 2, 5, 150
Water, attributes and,                  Zane, Chris, 38
    109–110                             Zane’s Cycles, 38–39
Waterford crystal, 214                  Zantac, 168, 169
Waterkeeper Alliance, 102               Zappos.com, 71
Watts, Duncan, 219                      Zyman, Sergio, 50–51
