15934_Sullivan_ffirs_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:03 AM   Page iii

                          Hey,Whipple,
                          Squeeze This
                 A Guide to Creating Great Ads

                                   Third Edition

                                  LUKE SULLIVAN

                                John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
15934_Sullivan_ffirs_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:03 AM   Page vi
15934_Sullivan_ffirs_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:03 AM   Page i

                                  Hey, Whipple,
                                  Squeeze This
15934_Sullivan_ffirs_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:03 AM    Page ii

            Adweek Books address the challenges and opportunities of the marketing
            and advertising industries, written by leaders in the business. We hope
            readers will find these books as helpful and inspiring as Adweek,
            Brandweek, and Mediaweek magazines.

            Great Books from the Adweek Series Include:
            Disruption: Overturning Conventions and Shaking Up the Marketplace,
                 by Jean-Marie Dru
            Truth, Lies and Advertising: The Art of Account Planning, by Jon Steel
            Perfect Pitch: The Art of Selling Ideas and Winning New Business,
                  by Jon Steel
            Eating the Big Fish: How Challenger Brands Can Compete Against Brand
                 Leaders, 2nd Edition, by Adam Morgan
            Life after the 30-Second Spot: Energize Your Brand With a Bold Mix of
                  Alternatives to Traditional Advertising, by Joseph Jaffe
            Pick Me!: Breaking Into Advertising, and Staying There, by Janet Kestin
                 and Nancy Vonk
            Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This: A Guide to Creating Great Advertising,
                 3rd Edition, by Luke Sullivan
15934_Sullivan_ffirs_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:03 AM   Page iii

                          Hey,Whipple,
                          Squeeze This
                 A Guide to Creating Great Ads

                                   Third Edition

                                  LUKE SULLIVAN

                                John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
15934_Sullivan_ffirs_3p.r.qxp           1/2/08        10:03 AM       Page iv

            Copyright © 2008 by Luke Sullivan All rights reserved.

            Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
            Published simultaneously in Canada.

            No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any
            form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise,
            except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without
            either the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the
            appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive,
            Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 750-4470, or on the web at www.copyright.com.
            Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department,
            John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-
            6008, e-mail: permcoordinator@wiley.com.

            Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best
            efforts in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the
            accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied
            warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or
            extended by sales representatives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained
            herein may not be suitable for your situation. The publisher is not engaged in rendering
            professional services, and you should consult a professional where appropriate. Neither the
            publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial damages,
            including but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.

            For general information on our other products and services please contact our Customer Care
            Department within the U.S. at (800) 762-2974, outside the United States at (317) 572-3993 or fax
            (317) 572-4002.

            Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in
            print may not be available in electronic books. For more information about Wiley products, visit
            our web site at www.wiley.com.

            ISBN 9780470190739

            Printed in the United States of America

            10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
15934_Sullivan_ffirs_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:03 AM   Page v

                                     TO MY DEAR WIFE,
                                          CURLIN,
                                 AND OUR GROWING BOYS,
                                    REED AND PRESTON
15934_Sullivan_ffirs_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:03 AM   Page vi
15934_Sullivan_ftoc_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:03 AM    Page vii

                                         CONTENTS

                                 FOREWORD BY ALEX BOGUSKY
                                               xi

                                            PREFACE
                                              xiii

                                           CHAPTER 1
                         Salesmen Don’t Have to Wear Plaid
                                   Selling without selling out
                                               1

                                           CHAPTER 2
                                A Sharp Pencil Works Best
                                Some thoughts on getting started
                                             16

                                           CHAPTER 3
                                  A Clean Sheet of Paper
                               Making an ad—the broad strokes
                                            36

                                           CHAPTER 4
                                Write When You Get Work
                               Making an ad—some finer touches
                                            80

                                           CHAPTER 5
              In the Future, Everyone Will Be Famous for 30 Seconds
                      Some advice on making television commercials
                                         116
15934_Sullivan_ftoc_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   2:52 PM    Page viii

            viii                          Contents

                                          CHAPTER 6
                                 But Wait, There’s More!
                          Does direct-response TV have to suck?
                                           130

                                          CHAPTER 7
                          Radio Is Hell. But It’s a Dry Heat.
                       Some advice on working in a tough medium
                                         148

                                          CHAPTER 8
                                    Big Honkin’ Ideas
                                  Hitting on every cylinder
                                            174

                                          CHAPTER 9
                              “Toto, I Have a Feeling
                     We’re Not in McCann-Erickson Anymore.”
                                 Working out past the edge
                                          198

                                         CHAPTER 10
                               Only the Good Die Young
                                 The enemies of advertising
                                           206

                                         CHAPTER 11
                               Pecked to Death by Ducks
                           Presenting and protecting your work
                                           236

                                         CHAPTER 12
                               A Good Book or a Crowbar
                        Some thoughts on getting into the business
                                          270

                                         CHAPTER 13
                   Making Shoes versus Making Shoe Commercials
                               Is this a great business or what?
                                               296

                                     SUGGESTED READING
                                             307
15934_Sullivan_ftoc_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   2:52 PM   Page ix

                                          Contents          ix

                                        BIBLIOGRAPHY
                                            311

                                    ONLINE RESOURCES
                                            315

                                           NOTES
                                            317

                                    ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
                                            323

                                           INDEX
                                            325
15934_Sullivan_ftoc_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:03 AM   Page x
15934_Sullivan_fbetw_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:04 AM    Page xi

                       FOREWORD BY ALEX BOGUSKY

            I’m late. Way late.
               I just got another e-mail from Luke Sullivan asking when this
            foreword to Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This would be done. I was also
            late reading his earlier e-mail about being late because there were
            about 200 other e-mails in front of that one, most of them about
            something I owed somebody and they were asking why it was late.
               The thing is, I’m not one of those “late people.” Really. I love
            work and I hate being late and I pretty much never miss a deadline.
            I think being late is poor form, so I’m feeling a little like a dolt right
            now.
               It’s just that I’ve been so damn busy. So busy I wasn’t even able to
            fit a martini into my lunch break. Damn. Actually, I haven’t had a
            martini lunch in my entire career. I eat lunch at my desk. Those
            three-martini lunches are long gone, and they’ve been replaced with
            a business that’s more competitive and fast-paced than even the
            movie industry.
               These days, there’s simply a lot more to do. The single television
            spot or print ad has been replaced by the integrated campaign—a
            single big idea that works across every media. An idea that can
15934_Sullivan_fbetw_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:04 AM    Page xii

            xii                   Foreword by Alex Bogusky

            draw the consumer out and compel him or her to spend some time
            with the brand, and maybe even some money. It’s a lot of work and
            it ain’t for the faint of heart. But as my Dad used to say, “It’s better
            than diggin’ ditches.”
               In the end, it’s rarely the deadlines or the amount of work that
            keep us from getting the job done. Hell, it’s never even the lack of a
            big idea. You see, new media, untraditional media, integration,—they
            may be the buzzwords we read every day in the hype that surrounds
            our business. But so far as I know, they’ve yet to come up with a
            powerful form of communication that does not at least begin life as
            words.
               Failure in advertising most often comes from the lack of this
            basic skill in finding the right words. The ability to find the words to
            write down an idea or to present an idea in the most compelling
            way possible. That’s the wisdom that’s in this book—in words. It’s
            why everybody here at Crispin Porter Ⳮ Bogusky has read it at
            least once. And it’s why some of the really brilliant and successful
            people I’ve met in this business have read it two, even three times.
               Which reminds me, I’m going to read it again. When I get the
            time.
15934_Sullivan_fpref_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:04 AM   Page xiii

                                          PREFACE

            THIS IS MY FANTASY.

            We open on a tidy suburban kitchen. Actually, it’s a room off the side,
            one with a washer and dryer. On the floor is a basket full of laundry.
            The camera closes in.
               Out of the laundry pops the cutest little stuffed bear you’ve ever
            seen. He’s pink and fluffy, has a happy little face, and there’s one sock
            stuck adorably to his left ear.
               “Hi, I’m Snuggles, the fabric-softening bear. And I . . .”
               The first bullet rips into Snuggles’s stomach, blows out of his back
            in a blizzard of cotton entrails, and punches a fist-sized hole in the
            dryer behind. Snuggles grabs the side of the Rubbermaid laundry
            basket and sinks down, his plastic eyes rolling as he looks for the
            source of the gunfire.
               Taking cover behind 1⁄16 th-inch of flexible acrylic rubber, Snuggles
            looks out of the basket’s plastic mesh and into the living room. He
            sees nothing. The dining room. Nothing.
15934_Sullivan_fpref_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:04 AM     Page xiv

            xiv                             Preface

              Snuggles is easing over the backside of the basket when the second
            shot takes his head off at the neck. His body lands on top of the laun-
            dry, which is remarkably soft and fluffy. Fade to black.

            We open on a woman in a bathroom, clad in apron and wielding
            brush, poised to clean her toilet bowl. She opens the lid.
              But wait. What’s this? It’s a little man in a boat, floating above the
            sparkling waters of Lake Porcelain. Everything looks clean already!
              With a tip of his teeny hat, he introduces himself.“I’m the Ty-D-Bowl
            Man, and I . . .”
              Both hat and hand disappear in a red mist as the first bullet
            screams through and blows a hole in curved toilet wall behind the
            Ty-D-Bowl Man. Water begins to pour out on the floor as the
            woman screams and dives for cover in the tub.
              Ty-D-Bowl Man scrambles out of the bowl, but when he climbs
            onto the big silver lever, it gives way, dropping him back into the
            swirling waters of the flushing toilet. We get two more glimpses of his
            face as he orbits around, once, twice, and then down to his final
            reward.

            We open on a grocery store, where we see the owner scolding a group
            of ladies for squeezing some toilet paper. The first shot is high and
            wide, shattering a jar of mayonnaise.
15934_Sullivan_fpref_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:04 AM   Page xv

                                  Hey, Whipple,
                                  Squeeze This
15934_Sullivan_fpref_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:04 AM   Page xvi

                                     Fig. 1.1 Whipple
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:04 AM   Page 1

                                            1
                        Salesmen Don’t
                       Have to Wear Plaid
                          Selling without selling out

            I GREW UP POINTING A FINGER GUN at Mr. Whipple. He kept inter-
            rupting my favorite shows. The morning lineup was my favorite,
            with its back-to-back Dick Van Dyke and Andy Griffith shows. But
            Whipple kept butting in on Rob and Laura Petrie.
               He’d appear uninvited on my TV, looking over the top of his
            glasses and pursing his lips at the ladies in his grocery store. Two
            middle-aged women, presumably with high school or college
            degrees, would be standing in the aisle squeezing rolls of toilet
            paper. Whipple would wag his finger and scold, “Please don’t
            squeeze the Charmin.” After the ladies scurried away, he’d give the
            rolls a few furtive squeezes himself.
               I used to shoot him the second he appeared, but later discovered
            greater satisfaction in waiting till the 27th second, when he was
            squeezing the Charmin. Bang! and he was gone.
               Now, years later, I am armed like millions of other Americans
            with a remote control. I still go looking for Whipple, and if I see
            him, I’m takin’ him out.
               To be fair, Procter & Gamble’s Charmin commercials weren’t the
            worst thing that ever aired on television. They had a concept, though
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp      1/2/08   10:04 AM    Page 2

            2                      “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            contrived, and a brand image, though irritating—irritating even to a
            ninth grader.
              If it were just me who didn’t like Whipple’s commercials, well, I
            might write it off. But the more I read about the campaign, the
            more consensus I discovered. In Martin Mayer’s book Whatever
            Happened to Madison Avenue?, I found this:

                [Charmin’s Whipple was] one of the most disliked . . . television com-
                mercials of the 1970s. [E]verybody thought “Please don’t squeeze the
                Charmin” was stupid and it ranked last in believability in all the com-
                mercials studied for a period of years . . .1

                In a book called How to Advertise, I found:

                When asked which campaigns they most disliked, consumers con-
                victed Mr. Whipple. . . . Charmin may have not been popular adver-
                tising, but it was number one in sales.2

            And there is the crux of the problem. The mystery. How did
            Whipple’s commercials sell so much toilet paper?
               These shrill little interruptions that irritated nearly everyone, that
            were used as fodder for Johnny Carson on late-night TV, sold toilet
            paper by the ton. How? Even if you figure that part out, the ques-
            tion then becomes, why? Why would you irritate your buying public
            with a twittering, pursed-lipped grocer when cold, hard research
            told you everybody hated him? I don’t get it.
               Apparently, even the agency that created him didn’t get it. John
            Lyons, author of Guts: Advertising from the Inside Out, worked at
            Charmin’s agency when they were trying to figure out what to do
            with Whipple.

                I was assigned to assassinate Mr. Whipple. Some of New York’s best
                hit teams before me had tried and failed. “Killing Whipple” was an
                ongoing mission at Benton & Bowles. The agency that created him
                was determined to kill him. But the question was how to knock off a
                man with 15 lives, one for every year that the . . . campaign had been
                running at the time.3

             No idea he came up with ever replaced Whipple, Lyons noted.
             Next up to assassinate Whipple, a young writer: Atlanta’s Joey
            Reiman. In a phone conversation, Reiman told me he tried to
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:04 AM   Page 3

                              Salesmen Don’t Have to Wear Plaid                   3

            sell P&G a concept called “Squeeze-Enders”—an Alcoholics
            Anonymous kind of group where troubled souls struggled to end
            their visits to Mr. Whipple’s grocery store, and so perhaps end the
            Whipple dynasty. No sale. Procter & Gamble wasn’t about to let go
            of a winner. Whipple remained for years as one of advertising’s
            most bulletproof personalities.
               As well he should have. He was selling literally billions of rolls of
            toilet paper. Billions. In 1975, a survey listed Whipple’s as the
            second-most-recognized face in America, right behind that of
            Richard Nixon. When Benton & Bowles’s creative director, Al
            Hampel, took Whipple (actor Dick Wilson) to dinner one night in
            New York City, he said “it was as if Robert Redford walked into the
            place. Even the waiters asked for autographs.”
               So on one hand, you had research telling you customers hated
            these repetitive, schmaltzy, cornball commercials. And on the other,
            you had Whipple signing autographs at the Four Seasons.
               It was as if the whole scenario had come out of the 1940s. In
            Frederick Wakeman’s 1946 novel, The Hucksters, this was how adver-
            tising worked. In the middle of a meeting, the client spat on the con-
            ference room table and said: “You have just seen me do a disgusting
            thing. Ugly word, spit. But you’ll always remember what I just did.”4
               The account executive in the novel took the lesson, later musing:
            “It was working like magic. The more you irritated them with repe-
            titious commercials, the more soap they bought.”5
               With 504 different Charmin toilet tissue commercials airing from
            1964 through 1990, Procter & Gamble certainly “irritated them with
            repetitious commercials.” And it indeed “worked like magic.” P&G
            knew what they were doing.
               Yet I lie awake some nights staring at the ceiling, troubled by
            Whipple. What vexes me so about this old grocer? This is the ques-
            tion that led me to write this book.
               What troubles me about Whipple is that he isn’t good. As an idea,
            Whipple isn’t good.
               He may have been an effective salesman. (Billions of rolls.) He
            may have been a strong brand image. (He knocked Scott tissues
            out of the number one spot.) But it all comes down to this: If I had
            created Mr. Whipple, I don’t think I could tell my son with a
            straight face what I did at the office. “Well, son, you see, Whipple
            tells the lady shoppers not to squeeze the Charmin, but then, then
            he squeezes it himself. . . . Hey, wait, come back!”
               As an idea, Whipple isn’t good.
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp      1/2/08    10:04 AM    Page 4

            4                      “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

              To those who defend the campaign based on sales, I ask, would
            you also spit on the table to get my attention? It would work, but
            would you? An eloquent gentleman named Norman Berry, once a
            British creative director at Ogilvy & Mather, put it this way:

                I’m appalled by those who [ judge] advertising exclusively on the
                basis of sales. That isn’t enough. Of course, advertising must sell. By
                any definition it is lousy advertising if it doesn’t. But if sales are
                achieved with work which is in bad taste or is intellectual garbage, it
                shouldn’t be applauded no matter how much it sells. Offensive, dull,
                abrasive, stupid advertising is bad for the entire industry and bad for
                business as a whole. It is why the public perception of advertising is
                going down in this country.6

               Berry may well have been thinking of Mr. Whipple when he
            made that comment in the early 1980s. With every year that’s
            passed since, newer and more virulent strains of vapidity have been
            created: I’m Digger the Dermatophyte Nail Fungus—Ring Around
            the Collar—Snuggles, the fabric softening bear—Dude, you’re get-
            ting a Dell!—He loves my mind and he drinks Johnny Walker
            Red—Don’t hate me because I’m beautiful—I’m not a doctor, but I
            play one on TV—Head on! Apply directly to forehead!—I’ve fallen
            and I can’t get up!
               Writer Fran Lebowitz may well have been watching TV when she
            observed: “No matter how cynical I get, it’s impossible to keep up.”
               Certainly, the viewing public is cynical about our business, due
            almost entirely to this parade of idiots we’ve sent into their living
            rooms. Every year, as long as I’ve been in advertising, Gallup pub-
            lishes their poll of most- and least-trusted professions. And every
            year, advertising practitioners trade last or second-to-last place with
            used car salesmen and members of Congress.
               It reminds me of a paragraph I plucked from our office bulletin
            board, one of those e-mailed curiosities that makes its way around
            corporate America:

                Dear Ann: I have a problem. I have two brothers. One brother is in
                advertising. The other was put to death in the electric chair for first-
                degree murder. My mother died from insanity when I was three. My
                two sisters are prostitutes and my father sells crack to handicapped
                elementary school students. Recently, I met a girl who was just
                released from a reformatory where she served time for killing her
                puppy with a ball-peen hammer, and I want to marry her. My problem
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:04 AM    Page 5

                              Salesmen Don’t Have to Wear Plaid                       5

              is, should I tell her about my brother who is in advertising? Signed,
              Anonymous

                THE 1950S: WHEN EVEN X-ACTO BLADES WERE DULL.
            My problem with Whipple (effective sales, grating execution) isn’t a
            new one. Years ago, it occurred to a gentleman named William
            Bernbach that a commercial needn’t sacrifice wit, grace, or intelli-
            gence in order to increase sales. And when he set out to prove it,
            something wonderful happened.
               But we’ll get to Mr. Bernbach in a minute. Before he showed up,
            a lot had already happened.
               In the 1950s, the national audience was in the palm of the ad
            industry’s hand. Anything that advertising said, people heard. TV
            was brand new, “clutter” didn’t exist, and pretty much anything that
            showed up in the strange, foggy little window was kinda cool.
               In Which Ad Pulled Best?, Ted Bell wrote: “There was a time in
            the not too distant past when the whole country sat down and
            watched The Ed Sullivan Show all the way through. To sell some-
            thing, you could go on The Ed Sullivan Show and count on every-
            body seeing your message.”7
               World War II was over, people had money, and America’s manufac-
            turers had retooled to market the luxuries of life in Levittown. But as
            the economy boomed, so too did the country’s business landscape.
            Soon there were more than one big brand of aspirin, more than two
            soft drinks, more than three brands of cars to choose from.And adver-
            tising agencies had more work to do than just get film in the can and
            cab it over to Rockefeller Center before Milton Berle went on live.
               They had to convince the audience their product was the best in
            its category. And modern advertising as we know it was born.
               On its heels came the concept of the unique selling proposition, a
            term coined by writer Rosser Reeves in the 1950s, and one that still
            has some merit. It was a simple, if ham-handed, notion. “Buy this
            product and you will get this specific benefit.” The benefit had to be
            one that the competition either could not or did not offer, hence the
            unique.
               This notion was perhaps best exemplified by Reeves’s aspirin
            commercials, in which a headful of pounding hammers was relieved
            “fast, fast, fast” only by Anacin. Reeves also let us know that
            because of the unique candy coating, M&M’s were the candy that
            “melts in your mouth, not in your hand.”
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08   10:04 AM    Page 6

            6                     “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               Had the TV and business landscape remained the same, perhaps
            simply delineating the differences between one brand and another
            would suffice today.
               But then came The Clutter. A brand explosion that lined the
            nation’s grocery shelves with tens of thousands of logos and packed
            every episode of Bonanza wall-to-wall with commercials for me-too
            products.
               Then, in response to The Clutter, came The Wall. The Wall was
            the perceptual filter that consumers put up to protect themselves
            from this tsunami of product information. Many products were at
            parity. Try as agencies might to find some unique angle, in the end,
            most soap was soap, most beer was beer.
               Enter the Creative Revolution. And a guy named Bill Bernbach,
            who said: “It’s not just what you say that stirs people. It’s the way
            you say it.”

                           “WHAT?! WE DON’T HAVE TO SUCK?!”
            Bernbach founded his New York agency, Doyle Dane Bernbach, on
            the then radical notion that customers aren’t nitwits who need to be
            fooled or lectured or hammered into listening to a client’s sales
            message. This is Bill Bernbach:

                The truth isn’t the truth until people believe you, and they can’t
                believe you if they don’t know what you’re saying, and they can’t
                know what you’re saying if they don’t listen to you, and they won’t
                listen to you if you’re not interesting, and you won’t be interesting
                unless you say things imaginatively, originally, freshly.8

            This was the classic Bernbach paradigm.
              From all the advertising texts, articles, speeches, and awards
            annuals I’ve read over my years in advertising, everything that’s any
            good about this business seems to trace its heritage back to this
            man, William Bernbach. And when his agency landed a couple of
            highly visible national accounts like Volkswagen and Alka-Seltzer,
            he brought advertising into a new era.
              Smart agencies and clients everywhere saw for themselves that
            advertising didn’t have to embarrass itself in order to make a cash
            register ring. The national TV audience was eating it up. Viewers
            couldn’t wait for the next airing of VW’s “Funeral” or Alka-Seltzer’s
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp       1/2/08     10:04 AM     Page 7

                                 Salesmen Don’t Have to Wear Plaid                              7

              Figure 1.2 In the beginning, there was the word. And it was “Lemon.”

            “Spicy meatball.” The first shots of the Creative Revolution of the
            1960s had been fired.*
              How marvelous to have actually been there when DDB art direc-
            tor Helmut Krone laid out one of the very first Volkswagen ads
            (Figure 1.2). A black-and-white picture of that simple car, no

            *You can study these two seminal commercials and many other great ads from this era in
            Larry Dubrow’s fine book on the Creative Revolution, When Advertising Tried Harder,
            New York, Friendly Press, 1984.
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08    10:04 AM    Page 8

            8                      “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            women draped over the fender, no mansion in the background. A
            one-word headline: “Lemon.” And the simple, self-effacing copy
            that began: “This Volkswagen missed the boat. The chrome strip on
            the glove compartment is blemished and must be replaced. Chances
            are you wouldn’t have noticed it; Inspector Kurt Kroner did.”
              Maybe this ad doesn’t seem earth-shattering now; we’ve all seen
            our share of great advertising since then. But remember, DDB first
            did this when other car companies were running headlines like:
            “Blue ribbon beauty that’s stealing the thunder from the high-
            priced cars!” And “Chevrolet’s 3 new engines put new fun under
            your foot and a great big grin on your face!” Volkswagen’s was a
            totally new voice.
              As the 1960s progressed, the revolution seemed to be successful
            and everything was just hunky-stinkin’-dory for a while. Then came
            the 1970s. The tightening economy had middle managers every-
            where scared. And the party ended as quickly as it had begun.

                                 THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK.
            The new gods wore suits and came bearing calculators. They
            seemed to say, “Enough of this Kreativity Krap-ola, my little scrib-
            blers. We’re here to meet the client’s numbers. Put ‘new’ in that head-
            line. Drop that concept and pick up an adjective: Crunch-a-licious,
            Flavor-iffic, I don’t care. The client’s coming up the elevator. Chop,
            chop.”
               In Corporate Report, columnist William Souder wrote:

                Creative departments were reined in. New ads were pre-tested in
                focus groups, and subsequent audience-penetration and consumer-
                awareness quotients were numbingly monitored. It seemed that with
                enough repetition, even the most strident ad campaigns could bore
                through to the public consciousness. Advertising turned shrill. People
                hated Mr. Whipple, but bought Charmin anyway. It was Wisk for
                Ring-Around-the-Collar and Sanka for your jangled nerves.9

              And so after a decade full of brilliant, successful examples like
            Volkswagen, Avis, Polaroid, and Chivas Regal, the pendulum swung
            back to the dictums of research. The industry returned to the blar-
            ing jingles and crass gimmickry of decades previous. The wolf was at
            the door again. Wearing a suit. It was as if all the agencies were run
            by purse-lipped nuns from some Catholic school. But instead of
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:04 AM   Page 9

                              Salesmen Don’t Have to Wear Plaid                    9

            whacking students with rulers, these Madison Avenue schoolmarms
            whacked creatives with rolled-up research reports like “Burke
            scores,” “Starch readership numbers,” and a whole bunch of other
            useless left-brain crap.
               Creativity was gleefully declared dead, at least by the big fat agen-
            cies that had never been able to come up with an original thought in
            the first place. And in came the next new thing—positioning.
               “Advertising is entering an era where strategy is king,” wrote the
            originators of the term positioning, Al Ries and Jack Trout. “Just as
            the me-too products killed the product era, the me-too companies
            killed the image advertising era.”10
               Part of the positioning paradigm was the notion that the con-
            sumer’s head has a finite amount of space to categorize products.
            There’s room for maybe three. If your product isn’t in one of those
            slots, you must de-position a competitor in order for a different
            product to take its place. The Seven-Up Company’s classic cam-
            paign from the 1960s remains a good example. Instead of position-
            ing it as a clear soft drink with a lemon-lime flavor, 7UP took on the
            big three brown colas by positioning itself as “The Uncola.”
               Ted Morgan explained positioning this way: “Essentially, it’s like
            finding a seat on a crowded bus. You look at the market place. You
            see what vacancy there is. You build your campaign to position your
            product in that vacancy. If you do it right, the straphangers won’t be
            able to grab your seat.”11 As you might agree, Ries and Trout’s con-
            cept of positioning is valid and useful.
               Not surprisingly, advertisers fairly tipped over the positioning
            bandwagon climbing on. But a funny thing happened.
               As skillfully as Madison Avenue’s big agencies applied its princi-
            ples, positioning by itself didn’t magically move products, at least
            not as consistently as advertisers had hoped. Someone could have a
            marvelous idea for positioning a product, but if the commercials
            sucked, sales records were rarely broken.
               Good advertising, it has been said, builds sales. But great adver-
            tising builds factories. And in this writer’s opinion, the “great” that
            was missing from the positioning paradigm was the original
            alchemy brewed by Bernbach.
               “You can say the right thing about a product and nobody will lis-
            ten,” said Bernbach (long before the advent of positioning). “But
            you’ve got to say it in such a way that people will feel it in their gut.
            Because if they don’t feel it, nothing will happen.” He went on to
            say, “The more intellectual you grow, the more you lose the great
            intuitive skills that really touch and move people.”12 Such was the
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:04 AM   Page 10

            10                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            state of the business when I joined its ranks in 1979. The battle
            between these opposing forces of hot creativity and cold research
            rages to this hour.
               It makes for an interesting day at the office.
               As John Ward of England’s B&B Dorland noted, “Advertising is
            a craft executed by people who aspire to be artists, but is assessed
            by those who aspire to be scientists. I cannot imagine any human
            relationship more perfectly designed to produce total mayhem.”13

                   WELCOME TO ADVERTISING. GRAB AN ADJECTIVE.
            When I was in seventh grade, I noticed something about the ads for
            cereal on TV. (Remember, this was before the FTC forced manufac-
            turers to call these sugary puffs of crunchy air “part of a complete
            breakfast.”) I noticed the cereals were looking more and more like
            candy. There were flocks of leprechauns or birds or bees flying
            around the bowl, dusting sparkles of sugar over the cereal or ladling
            on gooey rivers of chocolate-flavored coating. The food value of the
            product kept getting less important until it was finally stuffed into
            the trunk of the car and sugar moved into the driver’s seat. It was all
            about sugar.
               One morning in study hall, I drew this little progression (Figure
            1.3), calling it “History of a Cereal Box.”
               I was interested in the advertising I saw on TV but never thought
            I’d take it up as a career. I liked to draw, to make comic books, and
            to doodle with words and pictures. But when I was a poor college
            student, all I was sure of was that I wanted to be rich. I went into the
            premed program. The first grade on my college transcript, for chem-
            istry, was a big, fat, radioactive “F.” I reconsidered.
               I majored in psychology. But after college I couldn’t find any
            businesses on Lake Street in Minneapolis that were hiring skinny
            chain-smokers who could explain the relative virtues of scheduled
            versus random reinforcement in behaviorist theory. I joined a con-
            struction crew.
               When the opportunity to be an editor/typesetter/ad salesperson
            for a small neighborhood newspaper came along, I took it, at a
            salary of $80 every two weeks. (Thinking back, I believe I deserved
            $85.) But the opportunity to sit at a desk and use words to make a
            living was enough. Of all my duties, I found that selling ads and
            drawing them up were the most interesting.
               For the next year and a half, I hovered around the edges of the
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:04 AM    Page 11

                              Salesmen Don’t Have to Wear Plaid                     11

               Figure 1.3 Too much hype doesn’t persuade anybody, even seventh
               graders. When I was 12, I was appalled by all the cereal commercials
            featuring “sugar sparkles” and drew this progression of cereal box designs.
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:04 AM   Page 12

            12                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            advertising industry. I did paste-up for another small newsweekly
            and then put in a long and dreary stint as a typesetter in the ad
            department of a large department store. It was there, during a break
            from setting type about “thick and thirsty cotton bath towels:
            $9.99,” that I first came upon a book featuring the winners of a local
            advertising awards show.
               I was bowled over by the work I saw there—mostly campaigns
            from Tom McElligott and Ron Anderson from Bozell & Jacobs’s
            Minneapolis office. Their ads didn’t say “thick and thirsty cotton
            bath towels: $9.99.” They were funny or they were serious—startling
            sometimes—but they were always intelligent.
               Reading one of their ads felt like I’d just met a very likable per-
            son at a bus stop. He’s smart, he’s funny, he doesn’t talk about him-
            self. Turns out he’s a salesman. And he’s selling? . . . Well, wouldn’t
            you know it, I’ve been thinking about buying one of those. Maybe I’ll
            give you a call. Bye. Walking away you think, nice enough fella. And
            the way he said things: so funny.
               Through a contact, I managed to get a foot in the door at Bozell.
            What finally got me hired wasn’t my awful little portfolio. What did
            it was an interview with McElligott—a sweaty little interrogation I
            attended wearing my shiny, wide 1978 tie and where I said “I see”
            about a hundred times. Tom later told me it was my enthusiasm that
            convinced him to take a chance on me. That and my promise to put
            in 60-hour weeks writing the brochures and other scraps that fell off
            his plate.
               Tom hired me as a copywriter in January of 1979. He didn’t have
            much work for me during that first month, so he parked me in a
            conference room with a three-foot stack of books full of the best
            advertising in the world: the One Show and Communication Arts
            awards annuals. He told me to read them. “Read them all.”
               He called them “the graduate school of advertising.” I think he
            was right, and I say the same thing to students trying to get into the
            business today. Get yourself a three-foot stack of your own and
            read, learn, memorize. Yes, this is a business where we try to break
            rules, but as T.S. Eliot said, “It’s not wise to violate the rules until
            you know how to observe them.”

                     PORTRAIT OF THE ARTIST AS A YOUNG HACK.
            As hard as I studied those awards annuals, most of the work I did
            that first year wasn’t very good. In fact, it stunk. If the truth be
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:04 AM    Page 13

                              Salesmen Don’t Have to Wear Plaid                   13

            known, those early ads of mine were so bad I have to reach for my
            volume of Edgar Allan Poe to describe them with any accuracy:
            “. . . a nearly liquid mass of loathsome, detestable putridity.”
               But don’t take my word for it. Here’s my very first ad. Just look at
            Figure 1.4 (for as long as you’re able): a dull little ad that doesn’t so

                          Figure 1.4 My first ad. (I know . . . I know.)
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:04 AM     Page 14

            14                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            much revolve around an overused play on the word interest, as it
            limps.
               Rumor has it they’re still using my first ad at poison control cen-
            ters to induce vomiting. (“Come on now, Jimmy. We know you ate
            your sister’s antidepressant pills and that’s why you have to look at
            this bank ad.”)
               The point is, if you’re like me, you might have a slow beginning.
            Even my friend Bob Barrie’s first ad was terrible. Bob is arguably
            one of the best art directors in the history of advertising. But his first
            ad? The boring, flat-footed little headline read: “Win A Boat.” We
            used to give Bob all kinds of grief about that. It became his hallway
            nickname: “Hey, Win-A-Boat, we’re goin’ to lunch. You comin’?”
               There will come a time when you’ll just start to get it. When you’ll
            no longer waste time traipsing down dead ends or rattling the
            knobs of doors best left locked. You’ll just start to get it. And sud-
            denly, the ads coming out of your office will bear the mark of some-
            body who knows what the hell he’s doing.
               Along the way, though, it helps to study how more experienced
            people have tackled the same problems you’ll soon face. On the
            subject of mentors, Helmut Krone said:

              I asked one of our young writers recently, which was more important:
              Doing your own thing or making the ad as good as it can be? The
              answer was “Doing my own thing.” I disagree violently with that. I’d
              like to pose a new idea for our age: “Until you’ve got a better answer,
              you copy.” I copied [famous Doyle Dane art director] Bob Gage for
              five years.14

               The question is, who are you going to copy while you learn the
            craft? Whipple? For all the wincing his commercials caused, they
            worked. A lot of people at Procter & Gamble sent kids through col-
            lege on Whipple’s nickel. And these people can prove it; they have
            charts and everything.
               Bill Bernbach, quoted here, wasn’t big on charts.

              However much we would like advertising to be a science—because
              life would be simpler that way—the fact is that it is not. It is a subtle,
              ever-changing art, defying formularization, flowering on freshness
              and withering on imitation; what was effective one day, for that very
              reason, will not be effective the next, because it has lost the maxi-
              mum impact of originality.15
15934_Sullivan_c01_3p.r.qxp       1/2/08     10:04 AM     Page 15

                                 Salesmen Don’t Have to Wear Plaid                            15

               There is a fork in the road here. Mr. Bernbach’s path is the one I
            invite you to come down. It leads to the same place—enduring
            brands and market leadership—but gets there without costing any-
            body their dignity. You won’t have to apologize to the neighbors for
            creating that irritating interruption of their sitcom last night. You
            won’t have to explain anything. In fact, all most people will want to
            know is: “That was so cool. How’d you come up with it?”
               This other road has its own rules, if we can call them that. Rules
            that were first articulated years ago by Mr. Bernbach and his team
            of pioneers like Bob Levenson, John Noble, Phyllis Robinson,
            Julian Koenig, and Helmut Krone.
               Some may say my allegiance to the famous DDB School will date
            everything I have to say in this book. Perhaps. Yet a quick glance
            through their classic Volkswagen ads from the 1960s convinces me
            that the soul of a great advertisement hasn’t changed in these
            years.* Those ads are still great. Intelligent. Clean. Witty. Beautiful.
            And human.
               So with a tip of my hat to those pioneers of brilliant advertising, I
            offer the ideas in this book. They are the opinions of one writer, the
            gathered wisdom of smart people I met along the way during a
            career of writing, selling, and producing ideas for a wide variety of
            clients. God knows, they aren’t rules. As copywriter Ed McCabe
            once said, “I have no use for rules. They only rule out the brilliant
            exception.”

            *Perhaps the best collection of VW advertisements is a small book edited by the famous
            copywriter David Abbott: Remember Those Great Volkswagen Ads? Holland, European
            Illustration, 1982.
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:05 AM   Page 16

             Figure 2.1 This early ad for my friend Alex Bogusky’s agency in Miami
                      makes a good point. A smart strategy can take the same
                                message and make it work better.
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:05 AM   Page 17

                                             2
                              A Sharp Pencil
                               Works Best
                     Some thoughts on getting started

            IS THIS A GREAT JOB OR WHAT?
               As an employee in an agency creative department, you will spend
            most of your time with your feet up on a desk working on an ad.
            Across the desk, also with his feet up, will be your partner-in my
            case, an art director. And he will want to talk about movies.
               In fact, if the truth be known, you will spend a large part of your
            career with your feet up talking about movies.
               The ad is due in two days. The media space has been bought and
            paid for. The pressure’s building. And your muse is sleeping off a
            drunk behind a dumpster or twitching in a ditch somewhere. Your
            pen lies useless. So you talk movies.
               That’s when the traffic person comes by. Traffic people stay on
            top of a job as it moves through the agency. Which means they also
            stay on top of you. They’ll come by to remind you of the horrid
            things that happen to snail-assed creative people who don’t come
            through with the goods on time.
               So you try to get your pen moving. And you begin to work. And
            working, in this business, means staring at your partner’s shoes.
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:05 AM   Page 18

            18                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               That’s what I’ve been doing from nine to five for over 20 years.
            Staring at the bottom of the disgusting tennis shoes on the feet of
            my partner, parked on the desk across from my disgusting tennis
            shoes. This is the sum and substance of life at an agency.
               In movies, they almost never capture this simple, dull, workaday
            reality of life as a creative person. Don’t get me wrong, it’s not an
            easy job. In fact, some days it’s almost painful coming up with good
            ideas. As author Red Smith said, “There’s nothing to writing. All
            you do is sit down at a typewriter and open a vein.”1 But the way
            movies show it, creative people solve complicated marketing prob-
            lems between wisecracks and office affairs.
               Hollywood’s agencies are always kooky sorts of places where
            odd things are nailed to or stuck on the walls, where weirdly dressed
            creative people lurch through the hallways metabolizing last night’s
            chemicals, and the occasional goat wanders through in the
            background.
               But that isn’t what agencies are like. At least not the four or five
            agencies where I’ve worked. Again, don’t get me wrong. An ad
            agency is not a bank. It’s not an insurance company. There is a cer-
            tain amount of joie de vivre in an agency’s atmosphere.
               Which isn’t surprising. Here you have a tight-knit group of young
            people, many of them making significant salaries just for sitting
            around with their feet up, solving marketing problems. And talking
            about movies.
               It’s a great job because you’ll never get bored. One week you’ll
            be knee-deep in the complexities of the financial business, selling
            market-indexed annuities. The next, you’re touring a dog food fac-
            tory asking about the difference between a “kibble” and a “bit.”
            You’ll learn about the business of business by studying the opera-
            tions of hundreds of different kinds of enterprises.
               The movies and television also portray advertising as a
            schlocky business—a parasitic lamprey that dangles from the
            belly of the business beast. A sort of side business that doesn’t
            really manufacture anything in its own right, where it’s all flash
            over substance, and where silver-tongued salespeople pitch snake
            oil to a bovine public, sandblast their wallets, and make the 5:20
            for Long Island.
               Ten minutes of work at a real agency should be enough to con-
            vince even the most cynical that an agency’s involvement in a
            client’s business is anything but superficial. Every cubicle on every
            floor at an agency is occupied by someone intensely involved in
            improving the client’s day-to-day business, in shepherding its assets
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:05 AM   Page 19

                                  A Sharp Pencil Works Best                     19

            more wisely, sharpening its business focus, widening its market,
            even improving the product.
                Ten minutes of work at a real agency should be enough to con-
            vince a cynic that you can’t sell a product to someone who has no
            need for it. That you can’t sell a product to someone who can’t
            afford it. And that advertising can’t save a bad product.
                In ten minutes the cynic will also see there’s no back room where
            snickering airbrush artists paint images of breasts into ice cubes, no
            slush fund to buy hookers for the clients’ conventions, and no big
            table in the conference room where employees have sex during the
            office Christmas party. (Um, scratch that last one.)
                Advertising isn’t just some mutant offspring of capitalism. It’s
            one of the main gears in the machinery of a huge economy, respon-
            sible in great part for one of the highest standards of living the
            world has ever seen. That Diet Coke you had an hour before you
            bought this book? It’s just one of about 30,000 success stories of
            marketer and agency working together to bring a product—and
            with it, jobs and industry—to life.
                Diet Coke didn’t just happen. Coca-Cola didn’t simply roll it out
            and hope that people would buy it. Done poorly, they could have can-
            nibalized their flagship brand, Coke. Done poorly, it could have been
            just another one of the well-intentioned product start-ups that fail in
            six months. It took a lot of work by both Coca-Cola and its agency,
            SSCB, to decipher market conditions, position the product, name it,
            package it, and pull off the whole billion-dollar introduction.
                Advertising, like it or not, is a key ingredient in a competitive
            economy and has created a stable place for itself in America’s busi-
            ness landscape. Advertising is now a mature industry. And for most
            companies, a business necessity.
                Why most of it stinks remains a mystery.
                Carl Ally, founder of one of the great agencies of the 1970s, had a
            theory: “There’s a tiny percentage of all the work that’s great and a
            tiny percentage that’s lousy. But most of the work—well, it’s just
            there. That’s no knock on advertising. How many great restaurants
            are there? Most aren’t good or bad, they’re just adequate. The fact
            is, excellence is tough to achieve in any field.”2

                        WHY NOBODY EVER CHOOSES BRAND X.
            There comes a point when you can’t talk about movies anymore
            and you actually have to get some work done.
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:05 AM   Page 20

            20                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               You are faced with a blank sheet of paper, and you must, in a
            fixed amount of time, fill it with something interesting enough to be
            remembered by a customer who in the course of a day will see,
            somewhere, thousands of other ad messages.
               You are not writing a novel somebody pays money for. You are
            not writing a sitcom somebody enjoys watching. You are writing
            something most people try to avoid. This is the sad, indisputable
            truth at the bottom of our business. Nobody wants to see what you
            are about to put down on paper. People not only dislike advertising,
            they’re becoming immune to most of it—like insects building up
            resistance to DDT.
               The way Eric Silver put it was this: “Advertising is what happens
            on TV when people go to the bathroom.”
               When people aren’t indifferent to advertising, they’re angry at it.
            If you don’t believe me, go to the opening night of a big Hollywood
            movie. When the third commercial comes up on the screen and it’s
            not the movie, those moans you hear won’t be audience ecstasy.
            People don’t want to see your stinkin’ ad. Your ad is the comedian
            who comes on stage before a Rolling Stones concert. The audience
            is drunk and they’re angry and they came to see the Stones. And
            now a comedian has the microphone? You had better be great.
               So you try to come up with some advertising concepts that can
            defeat these barriers of indifference and anger. The ideas you try to
            conjure, however, aren’t done in a vacuum. You’re working off a
            strategy—a sentence or two describing the key competitive mes-
            sage your ad must communicate.
               In addition to a strategy, you are working with a brand. Unless it’s
            a new one, that brand brings with it all kinds of baggage, some good
            and some bad. Ad people call it a brand’s equity.
               A brand isn’t just the name on the box. It isn’t the thing in the
            box, either. A brand is the sum total of all the emotions, thoughts,
            images, history, possibilities, and gossip that exist in the marketplace
            about a certain company.
               What’s remarkable about brands is that in categories where
            products are essentially all alike, the best-known and most well-
            liked brand has the winning card. In The Want Makers, Mike
            Destiny, former group director for England’s Allied Breweries, was
            quoted: “The many competitive brands [of beer] are virtually iden-
            tical in terms of taste, color and alcohol delivery, and after two or
            three pints even an expert couldn’t tell them apart. So the consumer
            is literally drinking the advertising, and the advertising is the
            brand.”3
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:05 AM   Page 21

                                  A Sharp Pencil Works Best                      21

               A brand isn’t just a semantic construct, either. The relationship
            between the brand and its customers has monetary value; it can
            amount to literally billions of dollars. Brands are assets, and compa-
            nies rightfully include them on their financial balance sheets. When
            you’re writing for a brand, you’re working with a fragile, extraordi-
            narily valuable thing. Not a lightweight job. Its implications are
            marvelous.
               The ad you’re about to do may not make the next million for the
            brand’s marketer nor bring them to Chapter 11. Maybe it’s just a
            half-page ad that runs one time. Yet it’s an opportunity to sharpen
            that brand’s image, even if just a little bit. It’s a little like being
            handed the Olympic torch. You won’t bear this important symbol
            all the way from Athens. Your job is just to move it a few miles
            down the road. Without dropping it in the dirt along the way.

                          STARING AT YOUR PARTNER’S SHOES.
            For me, writing an ad is unnerving.
               You sit down with your partner and put your feet up. You read
            the account executive’s strategy, draw a square on a pad of paper,
            and you both stare at the damned thing. You stare at each other’s
            shoes. You look at the square. You give up and go to lunch.
               You come back. The empty square is still there.
               So you both go through the product brochures and information
            folders the account team left in your office. Hmmm. You point out
            to your partner that this bourbon you’re working on is manufac-
            tured in a little town with a funny name.
               Your partner looks out the window, stares at some speck in the
            distance, and says, “Oh.”
               Down the hallway, a phone rings.
               Reading from the client’s web site, your partner points out that
            the distillers rotate the aging barrels a quarter turn to the left every
            few months. You go, “Hmmm.” You read that moss on trees hap-
            pens to grow faster on the sides that face a distillery’s aging house.
            That’s interesting.
               You feel the glimmer of an idea move through you. You poise
            your pencil over the page. And it all comes out in a flash of creativ-
            ity. (Whoa. Someone call 9-1-1. Report a fire on my drawing pad
            ‘cause I am SMOKIN’ hot.) You put your pencil down, smile, and
            read what you’ve written. It’s complete rubbish. You call it a day
            and slink out to see a movie.
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08   10:05 AM   Page 22

            22                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               This process continues for several days, even weeks, and then one
            day without warning, an idea just shows up at your door, all nattied
            up like a Jehovah’s Witness. You don’t know where it comes from. It
            just shows up.
               That’s how you come up with ideas. Sorry, there’s no big secret.
            That’s basically the drill.
               A guy named James Webb Young, a copywriter from the 1940s,
            laid out a five-step process of idea generation that holds water
            today.
                 1. You gather as much information on the problem as you can.
                    You read, you underline stuff, you ask questions, you visit the
                    factory.
                 2. You sit down and actively attack the problem.
                 3. You drop the whole thing and go do something else while
                    your subconscious mind works on the problem.
                 4. “Eureka!”
                 5. You figure out how to implement your idea.4
               Step two is what this book is about: attacking the problem.
               This process of creativity isn’t just an aimless sort of blue-skying—
            a mental version of bad modern dance. Rather, it’s what author
            Joseph Heller (a former copywriter) called “a controlled daydream,
            a directed reverie.” It’s imagination disciplined by a single-minded
            business purpose.
               So you start to write. Or doodle. (It doesn’t matter which. Good
            copywriters can think visually; good art directors can write.) You
            just pick up a pencil and begin. All beginnings are humble, but after
            several days you begin to translate that flat-footed strategy into
            something interesting.
               The final idea may be a visual. It may be a headline. It may be
            both. It may arrive whole, like Athena arising out of Zeus’s head.
            Or in pieces—a scribble made by the art director last Friday fits
            beautifully with a headline the writer comes up with over the week-
            end. Eventually you get to an idea that dramatizes the benefit of
            your client’s product or service. Dramatizes is the key word. You
            must dramatize it in a unique, provocative, compelling, and memo-
            rable way.
               And at the center of this thing you come up with must be a
            promise. The reader must get something out of the deal. Steve
            Hayden, most famous for penning Apple Computer’s “1984” com-
            mercial, said, “If you want to be a well-paid copywriter, please your
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:05 AM   Page 23

                                  A Sharp Pencil Works Best                       23

            client. If you want to be an award-winning copywriter, please your-
            self. If you want to be a great copywriter, please your reader.”5
                Here’s the hard part. You have to please your reader and you
            have to do it in a few seconds.
                Paul Keye, a well-known West Coast creative, had a good way of
            putting this: “How to write an interesting ad? Try this: ‘Hello. I want
            to tell you something important or interesting or useful or funny.
            It’s about you. I won’t take very long and there’s a prize if you stay
            till the very end.’”6
                The way I picture it is this: It’s as if you’re riding down an eleva-
            tor with your customer. You’re going down only 15 floors. So you
            have only a few seconds to tell him one thing about your product.
            One thing. And you have to tell it to him in such an interesting way
            that he thinks about the promise you’ve made as he leaves the
            building, waits for the light, and crosses the street. You have to
            come up with some little thing that sticks in the customer’s mind.
                By “thing,” I don’t mean gimmick. Anybody can come up with an
            unrelated gimmick. Used car dealers are the national experts with
            their contrived sales events—“The boss went on vacation and our
            accountant went crazy!”—You might capture somebody’s attention
            for a few seconds with a gimmick. But once the ruse is over and the
            salesman comes out of the closet in his plaid coat, the customer will
            only resent you.
                Bill Bernbach: “I’ve got a great gimmick. Let’s tell the truth.”
                The best answers always arise out of the problem itself. Out of
            the product. Out of the realities of the buying situation. Those are
            the only paints you have to make your picture, but they are all you
            need. Any shtick you drag into the situation that is not organically
            part of the product or customer reality will ring false.
                You have more than enough to work with, even in the simplest
            advertising problem. You have your client’s product with its brand
            equities and its benefits. You have the competition’s product and its
            weaknesses. You have the price-quality-value math of the two prod-
            ucts. And then you have what the customer brings to the situation—
            pride, greed, vanity, envy, insecurity, and a hundred other human
            emotions, wants, and needs, one of which your product satisfies.

                         THE SUDDEN CESSATION OF STUPIDITY.
            “You’ve got to play this game with fear and arrogance.”
              That’s one of Kevin Costner’s better lines from the baseball
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:05 AM   Page 24

            24                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            movie Bull Durham. I’ve always thought it had an analog in the
            advertising business.
               There has never been a time in my career I have faced the empty
            page and not been scared. I was scared as a junior-coassistant-copy-
            cub-intern. And I’m scared today. Who am I to think I can write
            something that will interest 10 million people?
               Then, a day after winning a medal in the One Show ( just about
            the toughest national advertising awards show there is), I feel bul-
            letproof. For one measly afternoon, I am an Ad God. The next day
            I’m back with my feet up on the table, sweating bullets again.
               Somewhere between these two places, however, is where you
            want to be—a balance between a healthy skepticism of your reason
            for living and a solar confidence in your ability to come up with a
            fantastic idea every time you sit down to work. Living at either end
            of the spectrum will debilitate you. In fact, it’s probably best to err
            on the side of fear.
               A small, steady pilot light of fear burning in your stomach is part
            and parcel of the creative process. If you’re doing something that’s
            truly new, you’re in an area where there are no signposts yet—no up
            and down, no good or bad. It seems to me, then, that fear is the con-
            stant traveling companion of an advertising person who fancies
            himself on the cutting edge.
               You have to believe that you’ll finally get a great idea. You will.
               And there is nothing quite like the feeling of cracking a difficult
            advertising problem. What seemed impossible when you sat down
            to face the empty white square now seems so obvious. It is this very
            obviousness of a great idea that prompted Polaroid camera inven-
            tor, E.H. Land, to define creativity as “the sudden cessation of stu-
            pidity.” You look at the idea you’ve just come up with, slap your
            forehead, and go, “Of course, it has to be this.”

                         “YOU LIKE ME. YOU REALLY LIKE ME.”
            Solving a difficult advertising problem is a great feeling. Even bet-
            ter is the day, weeks or months later, when an account executive
            pops his head in your door and says sales are up. It never ceases to
            amaze me when that happens. Not that I doubt the power of adver-
            tising, but sometimes it’s just hard to follow the thread from the
            scratchings on my pad all the way to a ringing cash register in, say,
            Akron, Ohio. Yet it works.
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:05 AM   Page 25

                                 A Sharp Pencil Works Best                    25

                   Figure 2.2 A campaign with more legs than the Rockettes.

               People generally deny advertising has any effect on them. They’ll
            insist they’re immune to it. And perhaps, taken on a person-by-
            person basis, the effect of your ad is indeed modest. But over time,
            the results are undeniable. It’s like wind on desert sands. The
            changes occurring at any given hour on any particular dune are
            small. A grain here, a handful there. But over time, the whole land-
            scape changes.
               Try this on: 1980—Absolut Vodka is a little nothing brand. Selling
            12,000 cases a year. That’s nothing. (I’m sure 6,000 of that was me.)
            Ten years and one campaign later, this colorless, nearly tasteless,
            and odorless product is the preferred brand, selling nearly 3 million
            cases a year. All because of the advertising (Figure 2.2).
               More anecdotal, but equally impressive, were the results of the
            trade campaign created to attract advertisers to the pages of Rolling
            Stone magazine. After Fallon McElligott’s famous “Perception/
            Reality” campaign was up and running (Figure 2.3), publisher Jann
            Wenner was reported as saying, “It was like someone came in with a
            wheelbarrow of money and dumped it on the floor.”
               It’s a great business, make no mistake. I see what copywriter Tom
            Monahan meant when he said, “Advertising is the rock ‘n’ roll of
            the business world.”
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08   10:05 AM    Page 26

            26                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                 Figure 2.3 First scribbled on a napkin in a New York City diner by
                   writer Bill Miller, this campaign went on to be named one of the
                                    10 best campaigns of the 1980s.

                                     BRAND = ADJECTIVE.
            Each brand has its own core value. Dan Wieden says it another way:
            Brands are verbs. “Nike exhorts, IBM solves, and Sony dreams.”
            Even Mr. Whipple, as bad as he was, helped Charmin equal soft.
               This is an important point, and before we talk about strategy, it
            bears some discussion.
               People don’t have time to figure out what your brand stands for.
            It is up to you to make your brand stand for something. The way to
            do it is to make your brand stand for one thing. Brand ⫽ adjective.
            Everything you do with regard to advertising and design—whether
            it’s creating the product or designing the web site—adheres to
            absolutely draconian standards of simplicity.
               Recently, I was on the phone with a client who works for a
            nationwide chain of grocery stores. This director of marketing men-
            tioned in passing that the number of brands on the shelves in his
            stores had just passed 50,000.
               That’s 50,000 brands competing for a customer’s attention.
               50,000.
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:05 AM   Page 27

                                  A Sharp Pencil Works Best                      27

               This number alone should take the spring from the step of any
            advertising person whose job it is to make the silhouette of a brand
            show up on a customer’s radar. Until recently, it’s been reasonable
            to assume that the way to make customers remember a brand is to
            differentiate it from its competitors: “The model of car we’re selling
            has incredible styling and the other guy’s brand doesn’t.”
               But your competition isn’t just the other guy’s car.
               When you sit down to do an ad, you are competing with every
            brand out there. You’re competing with the 50,000 packaged-good
            brands on the shelves at the grocery store, as well as every other
            product and service and logo in the country. You’re competing for
            attention with every TV commercial that has ever aired, with each
            billboard on every mile of highway, with the entire bandwidth
            across the radio, and every one of the 100 trillion pixels on the Web.
            All those other advertisers want a piece of your customer, and
            they’re going to get it at your client’s expense. Looked at from this
            perspective, through the teeming forest of brands vying for cus-
            tomers’ attention, cutting through the clutter may require more
            than giving a sharp knife-edge to your brand. It calls for a big, noisy,
            smoking chain saw.
               But a kick-ass Super Bowl commercial isn’t what I mean by a
            chain saw.
               The chain saw you need is simplicity.

                                       SIMPLE = GOOD.
            When you think about it, what other antidote to clutter can there
            possibly be except simplicity?
               Perhaps we should try cutting through the clutter with clutter
            that’s extremely entertaining? Should we air clutter that tests well?
            Or clutter that wins awards or clutter with a big 800 number?
               I propose that the only possible antidote to clutter is draconian
            simplicity.
               Draconian simplicity involves stripping your brand’s value
            proposition down to the bone and then again to the marrow, carving
            away until you get down to brand ⫽ adjective. Make your brand
            stand for one thing. Pair it with one adjective.
               But which adjective?
               If you ask consumers in focus groups to talk about buying a car,
            with sufficient amounts of Dr Pepper and M&M’s, they will amaze
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:05 AM   Page 28

            28                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            you with their complex analysis of the auto-buying process. I’m not
            kidding. These groups go on for hours, days. But if you ask a guy in a
            bar, “Hey, talk to me about cars,” he’ll break it down to a word—
            usually an adjective.
               “Yeah, gonna get me a Jeep. They’re tough.”
               Porsches, they’re fast. BMWs perform. And Volvos, they’re . . .
            what?
               If you said “safe,” you’ve given the same answer I get from liter-
            ally every person I’ve ever asked. Ever.
               In every speech I’ve ever given, anywhere around the world,
            when I ask audiences, “What does Volvo stand for?” I hear the same
            answer every time: “Safety.” Audiences in Berlin, Los Angeles,
            Helsinki, Copenhagen, New York City all give the same answer. The
            money Volvo has spent on branding has paid off handsomely. Volvo
            has successfully spot welded that one adjective to their marque.
            And here’s the interesting bit: In the past couple of years, Volvo
            hasn’t even made it onto the top 10 list of safest cars on the market.
            So here’s a brand that, having successfully paired its logo to one
            adjective, rides the benefit of this simple position in customers’
            minds long after its products no longer even merit the distinction.
            Such is the power of simplicity.
               The adjective you choose is key. Once it’s married to a brand,
            divorce can be ugly. On the good side, once it’s paired with the
            brand, that one square foot of category space is taken. If all the
            good adjectives are taken, don’t settle for the second best.
            (“‘Refreshing’ is taken? Oh well . . . gimme ‘Quenching.’”) Second
            best won’t be different enough. Try a polar opposite. Or consider a
            flanking move. In ketchup, the adjective everyone fought over for a
            long time was to be the ”tomato-iest.” Then one day Heinz came
            along claiming it was the “slowest,” and sales went up—and stayed
            up. You can also try creating a whole new adjective that alters the
            playing field in your favor. (Axe cologne’s “Bom Chicka Wah Wah”
            comes to mind.) The right adjective, the answer, will come out of the
            product. Or from your customers. Ask them. They know the answer.
               Find an adjective and stick to it. But it’s the sticking to it that so
            many brands seem to have trouble with. The problem may be that,
            from a client’s perspective, there are many things to admire about
            the product.
               “How can we narrow down our brand’s value proposition to a
            word? Our product lasts longer, it’s less expensive, it works better.
            All that stuff’s important.” Yes, those secondary benefits are impor-
            tant, and, yes, they have a place: in the brochures, on the packaging,
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:05 AM   Page 29

                                  A Sharp Pencil Works Best                     29

            or two clicks into the web site. All those other benefits will serve to
            shore up the aggregate value proposition of a brand, once cus-
            tomers try it. But what they’re going to remember a brand for, the
            way they’re going to file it on their desktops, is with a word.
               Find that word.
               You may argue that I have oversimplified here. And I have; I’ll
            accept the criticism. Because I’m arguing for purism in an area
            where it’s often impossible to think that way. Many brands simply
            do not lend themselves to such clean theoretical distinctions. But at
            least try; try to find that one word.
               You’re going to thank me when it comes time to sit down and
            think up an ad.

                              BEFORE YOU PUT PEN TO PAPER.
            Before you do any new thinking, there’s some background work to
            do. You won’t be doing it alone, though. You’ll have help from the
            people in account service.
               The account folks are the people in charge of an account at an
            agency. They analyze the market, study the competition, and
            arrange for and interpret the research. They formulate strategy, set
            budgets, and do a whole bunch of other stuff, some of it boring.
            They also help you present work to the client. Overall, they’re the
            liaison between client and agency, explaining one to the other.
               Some account people are great, some so-so, and some bad. It will
            pay to hitch up with the smart ones as soon as you can. The good
            ones have the soul of a creative person and will share your excite-
            ment over a great ad. They’re articulate, honest, and inspiring, and
            they have a better batting average at selling your work.
               Here are some things I’ve learned from the great account people
            I’ve worked with.

            Start by examining the current positioning of your product.
            There’s a book called Positioning: The Battle for Your Mind, one I
            recommend with many caveats. (Though the strategic thinking of
            the authors is sound, I have many differences with them on the sub-
            ject of creativity, which they declare irrelevant.)
               The authors, Ries and Trout, maintain that the customer’s head
            has a finite amount of space in which to remember products. In
            each category, there’s room for perhaps three brand names. If
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:05 AM   Page 30

            30                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            your product isn’t in one of those slots, you must ”de-position” a
            competitor to take its place.
              Before you start, look at the current positioning of your product.
            What positions do the competitors occupy? What niches are unde-
            fended? Should you concentrate on defining your client’s position,
            or do some de-positioning of the competition? Do they have an
            adjective? What’s your adjective?

            Get to know your client’s business as well as you can.
            Bill Bernbach said, “The magic is in the product. . . . You’ve got to
            live with your product. You’ve got to get steeped in it. You’ve got to
            get saturated with it.”
               The moral for writers and art directors is: Do the factory tour. I’m
            serious. Go if you get the chance. Ask a million questions. How is
            the product made? What ingredients does it have? What are their
            quality control criteria? Read every brochure. Read every memo
            you can get your hands on. You may find ideas waiting in the mid-
            dle of a spec sheet ready to be transplanted kit-and-caboodle into
            an ad. Learn their business.
               Your clients are going to trust you more if you can talk to them
            about their industry in their terms. They’ll quickly find you boring
            or irrelevant if all you can speak about with authority is Century
            Italic. Your grasp of the client’s marketing situation has to be as
            well versed as any account executive’s. There are no shortcuts.
            Know the client. Know their product. Know their market. It will
            pay off.
               Louis Pasteur said, “Chance favors the prepared mind.”

            On the other hand, there’s value in staying stupid.
            This dissenting opinion was brought to my attention by a great
            copywriter, Mark Fenske. Mark says, “Don’t give into the tempta-
            tion to take the factory tour. Resist. It makes you think like the
            client. You’ll start to come up with the same answers the client
            does.”
               Mark thinks, as many do, that keeping your “tabula” extremely
            “rasa” makes your thinking fresher. He may be right. There’s also
            this to consider: When you’re on the factory floor watching the caps
            get put on the bottles, you are a long way from the customer’s real-
            ity. All the customer cares about is “What’s in it for me?”
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:05 AM   Page 31

                                 A Sharp Pencil Works Best                     31

            Get to know the client’s customers as well as you can.
            Once you get into the agency business, you’ll meet another member
            on the team, a person called a planner.
               It’s the job of planners to learn as much as they can about the
            client’s customers and feed it back to both client and agency. Read
            everything your planners give you before putting pen to paper.
            Remember, most of the ads you do will be targeted to people out-
            side your small social circle, people with whom you have no more in
            common than U.S. citizenship.
               Take farming. I’ve written TV commercials selling herbicides to
            soybean farmers, but what do I know about farming? As a kid, I
            couldn’t even keep an ant farm alive a week after it arrived in the
            mail. Getting into the mind-set of a soybean farmer took plenty of
            work—lots of videotaped interviews and plenty of reading. Your
            account planners can give you piles of material to study.
               But don’t just read it. Feel it. Take a deep breath and sink slowly
            into the world of the person you’re writing to. Maybe you’re selling
            a retirement community. You’re talking to an older person.
            Someone living on a fixed income. Maybe they’re worried about
            becoming dependent on their kids. It hurts when they get out of a
            chair. The idea of shoveling snow has dark-red cardiac overtones.
            How does it feel to be them?

            Ask to see the entire file of the client’s previous advertising.
            The client or the account executives will have it somewhere. Study
            it. Maybe they tried something that was pretty cool, but they didn’t
            do it right. How could you do it better? It will get your wheels turn-
            ing. It’ll also keep you from presenting ideas the client has already
            tried.

            Insist on a tight strategy.
            Creative director Norman Berry wrote: “English strategies are very
            tight, very precise. Satisfy the strategy and the idea cannot be
            faulted even though it may appear outrageous. Many . . . strategies
            are often too vague, too open to interpretation. “The strategy for
            this product is taste,’ they’ll say. But that is not a strategy. Vague
            strategies inhibit. Precise strategies liberate.”7
               Poet T.S. Eliot never worked at an ad agency, but his advice about
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp       1/2/08    10:05 AM      Page 32

            32                      “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            strategy is right on the money: “When forced to work within a strict
            framework, the imagination is taxed to its utmost and will produce
            its richest ideas. Given total freedom, the work is likely to sprawl.”
               Dude nailed it. You need a tight strategy.
               On the other hand, a strategy can become too tight. When there’s
            no play in the wheel, an overly specific strategy demands a very nar-
            row range of executions and becomes by proxy an execution itself.
            Good account people and planners can fine-tune a strategy by mov-
            ing it up and down a continuum that ranges between broad, mean-
            ingless statements and little purse-lipped creative dictums
            masquerading as strategies.
               When you have it just right, the strategy should be evident in the
            campaign but the campaign should not be evident in the strategy.
            Jean-Marie Dru put it elegantly in his book Disruption:

              There are two questions that need to be asked. The first is: Could the
              campaign I’m watching have been created without the brief? If the
              answer is yes, the odds are that the campaign is lacking in content.
              You have to be able to see the brief in the campaign. The second
              question is a mirror image of the first. . . . Is the campaign merely a
              transcription of the brief? If the answer is yes, then there has been no
              creative leap, and the campaign lacks executional force.7

               Ultimately, a good strategy is inspiring. You can pull a hundred
            rabbits out of the same hat, creating wildly different executions all
            on strategy. Goodby, Silverstein & Partners’ magnificent “milk
            deprivation” strategy called forth a long string of wonderful “Got
            milk?” executions.*
               Insist on a tight strategy. Will you always get one? No. In fact, in
            this business, they sometimes seem to be the exception, not the rule.
            But you must push for one as hard as you can.

            The final strategy should be simple.
            Advertising, as my friend Mark says, isn’t “rocket surgery.”
              People live and think in broad strokes. Like we said earlier, ask
            some guy in a mall about cars. He’ll tell you Volvos are safe,
            Porsches are fast, and Jeeps are rugged. Boom. Where’s the genius
            here? There isn’t.

            *Go online to one of the ad archive sites and study the campaign. Or see Communication
            Arts, December 1995, for examples.
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:05 AM   Page 33

                                  A Sharp Pencil Works Best                     33

               You want people who feel X about your product to feel Y. That’s
            about it. We’re talking one adjective here. Most of the time, we’re
            talking about going into a customer’s brain and spot welding one
            adjective onto a client’s brand. That’s all. DeWalt tools are tough.
            Coke is refreshing.
               I’m reminded of how Steven Spielberg said he preferred movie
            ideas that could be summed up in a sentence. “Lost alien befriends
            lonely boy to get home.”
               The moral is: Keep it simple. Don’t let the account executives or
            the client make you overthink it. Try not to slice too thin. Think in
            bright colors.

            Make sure what you have to say matters.
            It must be relevant. It must matter to somebody, somewhere. It has
            to offer something customers want or solve a problem they have,
            whether it’s a car that won’t start or a drip that won’t stop.
               If you don’t have something relevant to say, tell your clients to
            put their wallets away. Because no matter how well you execute it,
            an unimportant message has no receiver. The tree falls in the forest.

            Testing strategy is better than testing executions.
            This is the best of all possible worlds, and the day hell freezes over,
            all clients will be testing this way. A few do this now. Here’s how it
            works.
               You sit down with the client, the planners, and the account team.
            You explore all the possible strategies available to your brand. You
            settle on 5 or 6—10, if you want.
               Then you make what are called “benefit boards.” Simple, flat-
            footed layout things that look and feel like ads but aren’t. Usually a
            picture with a headline that spells out with little fanfare exactly the
            strategy you’d like to test.
               For example, say the client manufactures aspirin. The pictures
            could be anything really—a shot of a person nursing a headache or
            a close-up of two aspirins on a tabletop. Next to the picture on each
            board is a headline pitching a different angle on the product:
            ”Faster-acting Throbinex.” “Throbinex is easy on the stomach.”
            “Smaller, easier-to-swallow pills.” Just crank them out. These aren’t
            ads. They’re benefits.
               Show 10 different boards like these to a focus group and you’ll
            come away with a good idea of which messages resonate with
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp        1/2/08     10:05 AM      Page 34

            34                        “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            customers. It’s a great place to start. In fact, it’s the only place to
            start.

            Go to the focus groups.
            Every chance you get to hear what customers are saying, take it. If
            there’s a web site or chat room about a product or brand, go there.
            Eavesdropping is the best way to learn what customers think.
               Less useful (and usually more infuriating) is to hear what cus-
            tomers are saying about your work—in focus groups. I used to hate
            doing this; I still do. There are few things I hate more than listening
            to focus group people complain about my ideas.* I think pretesting
            concepts by showing rough layouts and storyboards to people off
            the street is a bane to the industry. (But more on that later, in
            Chapter 11.)
               For now, I say go to the groups, if only for the reason that it helps
            you sell work to the client. Because once you’ve put in the hours at
            the groups, you can say, “Yes, I sat there and stared through the
            glass at those people. I think I have a very good idea of what strate-
            gies work, what they like, and what they don’t, and in my opinion
            this campaign will work.”

            Read the publications your ads will be in.
            Check out the articles. See what your target customer is reading.
            Case the joint. Get a feel for the place your ad will be appearing.

            Read the awards books.
            Take a little inspiration from the excellence you see there. Then get
            ready to do something just as great. The best awards books are from
            the One Show and Communication Arts, as well as the British
            D&AD annuals. There are also the ad sites online. (I list several of
            the better ad sites in the back of this book, but keep in mind that
            they come and go.)

            *The Three Things I Hate More Than Going to Focus Groups: (1) sawing off my feet
            and walking into town on the stumps, (2) sticking an Alka-Seltzer tablet under my eye-
            lid, and (3) kissing the side of a moving train that’s made out of sandpaper and then bob-
            bing for razor-blade-filled apples in a tub of boiling alcohol.
15934_Sullivan_c02_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:05 AM   Page 35

                                 A Sharp Pencil Works Best                     35

            Look at the competitors’ advertising.
            Each category quickly manages to establish its own brand of bor-
            ing. Learn the visual clichés. Visit their web sites. Watch their com-
            mercials. Creep through the woods, part the branches, and study the
            ground your competitors occupy. What is their strategy? What is
            their look? Those schmucks. They don’t know what’s coming.
               Now comes the fun part. Sharpening your pencil and sitting down
            to come up with a cool idea.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:06 AM    Page 36

                      Figure 3.1 A short, five-word course in advertising.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:06 AM    Page 37

                                               3
                              A Clean Sheet
                                of Paper
                    Making an ad—the broad strokes

            LET’S BEGIN THIS PART OF OUR DISCUSSION with a quotation from
            Helmut Krone, the man who did what I think is the industry’s first
            good ad: “I start with a blank piece of paper and try to fill it with
            something interesting.” So if I’m working on a print ad, that’s what I
            do. I get a clean sheet of paper and draw a small rectangle. I figure if
            an idea doesn’t work in a small space, it’s not going to work.
              And then I start.

                       SAYING THE RIGHT THING THE RIGHT WAY.
            Remember, you have two problems to solve:
            the client’s and yours.
            Imagine this circle (Figure 3.2) is the target’s bull’s-eye of what the
            brand stands for. Any ad you do that lands inside this area is per-
            fect. The client will love it. If it’s outside the circle, they won’t. Nor
            should they.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:06 AM     Page 38

            38                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                          Figure 3.2 If your idea lands inside the client’s
                            brand space, they’ll love it. If not, buh-bye.

               Okay, now imagine you have two circles, overlapping (Figure 3.3).
               The one on the left is the client’s bull’s-eye and on the right is the
            bull’s-eye for what you think is a great ad.
               The trick is to hit that sweet spot where the two circles overlap.
               You solve the account team’s and the client’s problem by saying
            exactly the right thing. That’s relatively easy; it’s the strategy. But
            you aren’t finished until both problems are solved. By nailing the
            sweet spot.
               Bernbach once said, “Dullness won’t sell your product, but nei-
            ther will irrelevant brilliance.” Here, dullness is represented on the
            far left side of the left circle, and irrelevant brilliance on the far
            right side of the right.
               The moral? Do both perfectly. Hit the overlap.

                         Figure 3.3 If your idea is only in the left circle, it
                           might be boring. Only on the right, it might be
                         stupid. Hit the sweet spot to win cash and prizes.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:06 AM    Page 39

                                    A Clean Sheet of Paper                         39

            Pose the problem as a question.
            Creativity in advertising is problem solving. When you state the
            problem as a bald question, sometimes the answers suggest them-
            selves. Take care not to simply restate the problem in the terms in
            which it was brought to you; you’re not likely to discover any new
            angles. Pose the question again and again, from entirely different
            perspectives.
               In his book The Do-It-Yourself Lobotomy, Tom Monahan puts it
            this way: “Ask a better question.” By that he means a question to
            which you don’t know the answer. He likens it to “placing the solu-
            tion just out of your reach,” and in answering it, you stretch
            yourself.1
               As philosopher John Dewey put it: “A problem well-stated is a
            problem half-solved.” It can work. Eric Clark reminds us just how it
            works in his book The Want Makers.

              In the 1960s, a team wrestled for weeks for an idea to illustrate the
              reliability of the Volkswagen in winter. Eventually they agreed that a
              snowplow driver would make an excellent spokesman. The break-
              through came a week later when one of the team wondered aloud,
              “How does the snowplow driver get to his snowplow?”2

              If you’ve never seen it, the VW “snowplow” commercial is vin-
            tage Doyle Dane. A man gets in his Volkswagen and drives off
            through deep snow into a blizzard. At the end, we see where he’s
            driving: the garage where the county snowplows are parked. The
            voice-over then asks, “Have you ever wondered how the man who
            drives a snowplow . . . drives to the snowplow? This one drives a
            Volkswagen. So you can stop wondering.”

            Don’t be afraid to ask dumb questions.
            That blank slate we sometimes bring to a problem-solving session
            can work in our favor. We ask the obvious questions that people too
            close to the problem often forget. In the question’s very naïveté, we
            sometimes find simple answers that have been overlooked.

            Ask yourself what would make you want to buy the product.
            A simple enough piece of advice and one I often forget about while
            I’m busy trying to write an ad. Sit across from yourself at your desk.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08   10:06 AM    Page 40

            40                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Quiet your mind. And ask, “What would make me want to buy this
            product?”
               Then try the flip side: What would you do if you were the one
            bankrolling the campaign?
               There was a writer at my agency who was also an investor in a
            new product—some kind of running gear. He was both the writer
            and the client. When he sat down to do ads for a company whose
            failure would cost him a significant amount of money, he saw how
            some of the things he hated hearing from clients had merit.
               Copywriter John Matthews wrote, “You learn a lot more about
            poker when you play for money and not for chips.”

            Find the central truth about your product.
            Find the central truth about your whole product category. The cen-
            tral human truth. Hair coloring isn’t about looking younger. It’s
            about self-esteem. Cameras aren’t about pictures. They’re about
            stopping time and holding life as the sands run out.
               There are ads to be written all around the edges of any product.
            But get to the ones written right from the essence of the thing. In
            Hoopla, Alex Bogusky is talking about this essence when he says,
            “We try to find that long-neglected truth in a product and give it a
            hug.”3 Notice he says they “find” this truth, not invent it. Roy
            Spence of GSD&M hits on the same point when he says, “Visionary
            ideas are discovered, not created.” They’re discovered. The best

                  Figure 3.4 The headline could have been something boring like:
                 “We’re proud of our wide variety of beautiful flower arrangements.
                                 One’s just right for your budget.”
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:06 AM   Page 41

                                    A Clean Sheet of Paper                      41

            ideas are old truths brought to light in fresh, new ways. As an exam-
            ple, check out this ad by my friend Dean Buckhorn for the
            American Floral Marketing Council (Figure 3.4). He could have
            done something about how “purdy” flowers are. He didn’t, and
            instead focused on one of the central human truths about this
            category—the use of flowers as a ticket out of the Casa di Canine.

            Try the competitor’s product.
            What’s wrong with it? More important, what do you like about it?
            What’s good about their advertising?
              Then try this trick. In Marketing Warfare, Ries and Trout sug-
            gested, “Find a weakness in the leader’s strength and attack at that
            point.”4
              A good example comes to mind, again from the pens of
            Bernbach’s crew. Avis Rent A Car was only number two. So Avis
            suggested you come to them instead of Hertz because “The line at
            our counter is shorter.”

            Dramatize the benefit.
            Not the features of the product, but the benefit those features pro-
            vide the user, or what some call “the benefit of the benefit.” There is
            an old advertising maxim that expresses this wisdom in a way that’s
            hard to improve: “People don’t buy quarter-inch drill bits. They buy
            quarter-inch holes.”

            Avoid style; focus on substance.
            Remember, styles change; typefaces and design and art direction,
            they all change. Fads come and go. But people are always people.
              They want to look better, to make more money; they want to feel
            better, to be healthy. They want security, attention, and achieve-
            ment. These things about people aren’t likely to change. So focus
            your efforts on speaking to these basic needs, rather than tinkering
            with the current visual affectations. Focus first on the substance of
            what you want to say. Then worry about how.

            Make the claim in your ad something that is incontestable.
            Make it something that can’t be argued about. Facts can’t be
            refuted. There are some products to which this advice won’t apply.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:06 AM   Page 42

            42                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Products that are all image. Or products with no real difference
            worth hanging your hat on, like, I don’t know, paper clips.
               But when you have a fact at your command, use it. When you can
            say, “This product lasts 20 years,” what’s to argue with? State fact,
            not manufactured nonsense about, oh, say, how “We Put the ‘Qua’
            in Quality.”

                        GET SOMETHING, ANYTHING, ON PAPER.
            The artist Nathan Oliveira wrote, “All art is a series of recoveries
            from the first line. The hardest thing to do is put down the first line.
            But you must.”
               Here are some ideas to help you get started.

            First, say it straight. Then say it great.
            To get the words flowing, sometimes it helps to simply write out
            what you want to say. Make it memorable, different, or new later.
            First, just say it.
               Try this. Begin your headline with: “This is an ad about . . .” And
            then keep writing. Who knows? You might find, by the time you get
            to the end of a sentence, you have something just by snipping off
            the “This is an ad about” part. Even if you don’t, you’ve focused. A
            good first step.
               Whatever you do, just start writing. Don’t let the empty page
            (what Hemingway called “the white bull”) intimidate you. Go for
            art later. Start with clarity.

            Restate the strategy and put some spin on it.
            Think of the strategy statement as a lump of clay. You’ve got to
            sculpt it into something interesting to look at. So begin by taking
            the strategy and saying it some other way, any way. Say it faster. Say
            it in English. Then in slang. Shorten it. Punch it up. Try anything that
            will change the strategy statement from something you’d overhear
            in an elevator at a sales convention to a message you’d see spray
            painted on an alley wall.
                Club Med’s tagline could have been “A Great Way to Get Away.”
            It could have been “More Than Just a Beach.” Fortunately,
            Ammirati & Puris had the account, and it became: “Club Med. The
            Antidote for Civilization.”
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08    10:06 AM     Page 43

                                      A Clean Sheet of Paper                             43

               Be careful, too, not to let your strategy show. Many ads suffer
            from this transparence, and it happens when you fail to put enough
            creative spin on the strategy. Your ad remains flat and obvious,
            there’s no magic to it, and reading it is a bit of a letdown. It’s like
            Dorothy discovering that the Wizard of Oz is just some knuckle-
            head behind a curtain.
               In his book Disruption, Jean-Marie Dru described this kind of ad:

              You can tell when ads are trying too hard. Their intentions are too
              obvious. They impose themselves without speaking to you. By con-
              trast, there are some that grab your attention with their executional
              brio, but their lack of relevance is such that after you’ve seen them
              they leave you kind of empty. Great advertising combines density of
              content with the elegance of form.5

            Density of content and elegance of form. Great advice.

            What’s the mood you want your reader or viewer to feel?
            This is a decision you can sometimes make early on in the process.
            It’s likely based on the kind of product you are working with. If
            you’re working on a web site for a hospital, well, pie-in-the-face
            humor probably shouldn’t be on the list of likely solutions. Pick a
            mood. A feeling. You can change your mind later, but sometimes it
            helps give you focus when you decide, “Okay, this campaign is
            gonna be . . . thoughtful.” Or angry, or stark, or . . . well, you decide.
            What’s right for your client? What’s right for the customer?

            Allow yourself to come up with terrible ideas.
            In Bird by Bird, her book on the art of writing fiction, Anne Lamott
            says:

              The only way I can get anything written at all is to write really, really
              crappy first drafts. That first draft is the child’s draft, where you let it
              pour out and then let it romp all over the place, knowing that no one
              is going to see it and that you can shape it later. You just let this
              childlike part of you channel whatever voices and visions come
              through and onto the page. If one of the characters wants to say,
              “Well, so what, Mr. Poopy Pants?,” you let her.6

            Same thing in advertising. Start with “Free to qualified customers”
            and go from there.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:06 AM   Page 44

            44                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

              Remember, notebook paper is not made only for recording gems
            of transcendent perfection. A sheet of paper costs about one-
            squillionth of a cent. It isn’t a museum frame. It’s a workbench.
            Write. Keep writing. Don’t stop.

            Allow your partner to come up with terrible ideas.
            The quickest way to shut down your partner’s contribution to the
            creative process is to roll your eyes at a bad idea. Don’t. Even if the
            idea truly and most sincerely blows, just say, “That’s interesting,”
            scribble it down, and move on. Remember, this is not a race. (Well,
            if it is, it’s one of those nerdy three-legged races at the company pic-
            nic where you and your partner win or lose together.) You are not
            in competition with your partner. You are competing with your
            client’s rival brands.
                No matter what your partner says, see if you can take it and
            shape it and mold it. Then throw it back to him or her with your
            idea tacked on. In a wonderful book called Creative Advertising,
            author Mario Pricken likens this conceptual back-and-forth to a
            game: “ . . . a kind of ping-pong ensues, in which you catapult each
            other into an emotional state resembling a creative trance.”7

            Feed a baby idea lots of milk and burp it regularly.
            Nurture a newly hatched idea. Until it grows up, you don’t know
            what it’s going to be. So don’t look for what’s wrong with a new
            idea, look for what’s right. And no playing the devil’s advocate just
            yet. Instead, do what writer Sydney Shore suggests: Play the
            “angel’s advocate.” Coax the thing along.

            Share your ideas with your partner, even the kinda dumb
            half-formed ones.
            Just because an idea doesn’t work yet, it might work eventually. I
            sometimes find I get something that looks like it might go some-
            where, but I can’t do anything with it. It just sits there. Some wall
            inside prevents me from taking it to the next level. That’s when my
            partner scoops up my miserable little half-idea and runs with it over
            the goal line.
               Remember, the point of teamwork isn’t to impress your partner
            by sliding a fully finished idea across the conference room table. It’s
            about how 1 ⫹ 1 ⫽ 3.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:06 AM   Page 45

                                    A Clean Sheet of Paper                        45

               That said, I feel the need to remind you not to say aloud every
            stinking thing that comes into your head. It’s counterproductive. I
            worked with someone like this once, and I ended up with a bad case
            of “idea-rrhea” that lasted the whole weekend.

            Spend some time away from your partner,
            thinking on your own.
            I know many teams who actually prefer to start that way. It gives
            you both a chance to look at the problem from your own perspec-
            tive before you bring your ideas to the table.

            Let your subconscious mind do it.
            Where do ideas come from? I have no earthly idea. Around 1900, a
            writer named Charles Haanel said true creativity comes from “a
            benevolent stranger, working on our behalf.” Novelist Isaac Singer
            said, “There are powers who take care of you, who send you
            patience and stories.” And film director Joe Pytka said, “Good ideas
            come from God.” I think they’re probably all correct. It’s not so
            much our coming up with great ideas as it is creating a canvas
            where a painting can appear.
               So do what Marshall Cook suggests in his book Freeing Your
            Creativity: “Creativity means getting out of the way. . . . If you can
            quiet the yammering of the conscious, controlling ego, you can
            begin to hear your deeper, truer voice in your writing. . . . [not the]
            noisy little you that sits out front at the receptionist’s desk and tries
            to take credit for everything that happens in the building.”8
               Stop the chatter in your head. Go into Heller’s “controlled day-
            dream.” Breathe from your stomach. If you’re lucky, sometimes the
            ideas just begin to appear.
               What does the ad want to say? Not you, the ad.
               Shut up. Listen.
               In The Creative Companion, David Fowler says, “Maybe if you
            walked around the block you could hear it more clearly. Maybe if
            you went and fed the pigeons they’d whisper it to you. Maybe if you
            stopped telling it what it needed to be, it would tell you what it
            wanted to be. Maybe you should come in early, when it’s quiet.”9

            Try writing down words from the product’s category.
            Most of the creative people I know have their own special system
            for scribbling down ideas. Figure out what works for you. For
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:06 AM   Page 46

            46                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            me—let’s say we’re selling outboard engines—I start a list on the
            side of the page: Fish. Water. Pelicans. Flotsam. Jetsam. Atlantic.
            Titanic. Ishmael.
               What do these words make you think of? Pick up two of them
            and put them together like Tinkertoys. You have to start some-
            where. Sure, it sounds stupid. The whole creative process is stupid.
               It’s like washing a pig. I’m serious. It’s exactly like washing a pig.
            It’s messy; it has no rules, no clear beginning, middle, or end; it’s
            kind of a pain in the ass, and when you’re done, you’re not sure if
            the pig is clean or even why you were washing a pig in the first
            place. Welcome to the creative department.

            Stare at a picture that has the emotion of the ad
            you want to do.
            Have you ever tried to write an angry letter when you weren’t
            angry? Oh, you manage to get a few cusswords on paper, but there’s
            no fire to it. The same can be said for writing a good ad. You need to
            be in the mood.
               I once had to do some ads for a new magazine called Family Life.
            The editors said this wasn’t going to be just another “baby maga-
            zine,” which are very much like diapers—soft, fluffy, and full of . . .
            My point is, they wanted ads that captured the righteous emotion of
            the editorial. Raising a child is the most moving, most important
            thing you’ll ever do.
               To get in the mood, I did two things. I reread a wonderful book
            by Anna Quindlen on the joys and insanities of parenting called
            Living Out Loud. I’d soak up a couple of pages before I sat down to
            write. When I was ready to put pen to paper, I propped up a number
            of different stock photos of children, including a picture of a child in
            a raincoat, sitting in a puddle (Figure 3.5).
               As you can see in the ad reprinted here, the idea didn’t come
            directly out of the photo, but in a way it did. It’s worked for me. You
            might want to try it.

            Explore Jim Aitchison’s format: “Do I want to write a letter
            or send a postcard?”
            In his book Cutting Edge Advertising,10 Aitichison offers up this
            early fork in the road. Do you want to write a letter or just drop a
            postcard?
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:06 AM    Page 47

                                    A Clean Sheet of Paper                       47

                     Fig 3.5 The headline was inspired by the photograph.
                    The copy reads: “The years from age 3 to 12 go by so fast.
                          Only one magazine makes the most of them.”

               A postcard, says Aitchison, is an ad that’s visually led. A single
            visual and a small bit of copy are all that are needed to make the
            point. For example, to get across the spirit and drive of the new
            Beetle,Arnold Communications did this simple postcard (Figure 3.6):
            “0–60? Yes.”
               On the other hand, a letter is an ad that’s predominantly copy-
            driven. It’s probably better for ads that have to deliver a more com-
            plex message. Just the sheer weight of the body copy adds a sense of
            gravitas to the product regardless of whether the consumer reads a
            word of the copy. Check out the beautiful ad for Land Rover done
            by my friends at GSD&M (Figure 3.7).
               There are both letter ads and postcard ads throughout this book.
            Take a look at how each visual or verbal format serves the different
            messages the brands are trying to convey.

            Find a villain.
            Find a bad guy you can beat up in the stairwell. Every client has an
            enemy, particularly in mature categories, where growth has to come
            out of somebody else’s hide.
              Your enemy can be the other guy’s scummy, overpriced product.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:06 AM    Page 48

            48                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Figure 3.6 An example of a postcard ad. Write a postcard, says Aitchison,
              when you have “just a little something” you want the customer to hear.
                                   (Photographer: Bill Cash)

            It can also be some pain or inconvenience the client’s product
            spares you. If the product’s a toothpaste, the villain can be tooth
            decay, the dentist, the drill, or that little pointy thing Laurence
            Olivier used on Dustin Hoffman in Marathon Man. (“Is it safe?”)
            A villain can come from another product category altogether, in
            the form of what’s called an indirect competitor. Parker Pens, for
            example, could be said to have an indirect competitor in word
            processors.
               A gracefully raised knee to a villain’s groin isn’t just fun, it’s prof-
            itable. Because competitive positioning is implicit in every villain
            paradigm.
               It’s also an easy and fun place from which to write. Mom was always
            telling us about “constructive criticism.” Yeah, well highly underrated
            and much more fun is the concept of “destructive criticism.”

            “Tell the truth and run.”
            This old Yugoslavian proverb is a reminder of the power of truth.
            Even if you have an unpleasant truth, say it.
              “We’re Avis. We’re only number two. So we try harder.” Totally
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp    1/11/08   11:34 AM    Page 49

                                     A Clean Sheet of Paper                         49

                  Figure 3.7 “If we’ve learned one thing in 20 years of building
                   Range Rovers, it is this. An ostrich egg will feed eight men.”
                     Followed by 630 words of Gold One Show body copy.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:06 AM   Page 50

            50                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            believable. More important, I like a company that would say this
            about themselves. America loves an underdog.
              Perhaps the biggest underdog of all time was Volkswagen. VW
            was the king of self-deprecation. The honest voice Doyle Dane
            Bernbach created for this odd-looking little car turned its weak-
            nesses into strengths. This ad is a perfect example (Figure 3.8).

                 Figure 3.8 Many other clients would’ve urged the agency to avoid,
                          hide, or deny the small size of their car. Not VW.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:06 AM    Page 51

                                    A Clean Sheet of Paper                           51

            Does the medium lend itself to your message?
            Some great ads have been done playing off of the very place they
            appear. This is well-tilled ground, so take care that your idea hasn’t
            been done a hundred times before. But when it works, it works.
              The ad from Australia’s Taronga Zoo is a great example and is
            reprinted at actual size (Figure 3.9).

            Be provocative.
            Sometimes the best way to bring the message home is to gallop into
            town and splash mud all over decent citizens.
               Provocative is good. It gets your client talked about. Go over the
            line once in a while, when it seems right. Just a couple of steps. Going
            way over the line may backfire on you. And please, don’t take this as
            permission to do a “pee-pee” joke. If I see even one more ad with a
            sly nudge-nudge-wink-wink reference to penises, I think I shall
            retire to my chambers, close the door, and gently weep until dusk.
               Remember, being provocative just because you can isn’t the
            point. Like Bernbach said, “Be sure your provocativeness stems

               Figure 3.9 Spinning your concept off the shape or placement of the
                ad is fun. This is well-tilled ground, so do your homework to make
                     sure your idea hasn’t been done a hundred times already.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:06 AM   Page 52

            52                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                 Figure 3.10 Being provocative is good. Particularly when you
                           need to make people mad about something.

            from your product.” This ad for the truth® youth-smoking preven-
            tion campaign qualifies (Figure 3.10). Here’s a client that wants to
            use the natural rebellious tendencies of teenagers and turn them on
            the lies of tobacco companies. It’s exactly the right time to pull out
            all the stops.

                        “DO I HAVE TO DRAW YOU A PICTURE?”
            Be visual and go short on the copy.
            The screen saver on the computers at London’s Bartle Bogle
            Hegarty reads, “Words are a barrier to communication.” Creative
            director (CD) John Hegarty says, “I just don’t think people read
            ads.”
               I don’t think most people read ads, either—at least not the body
            copy. There’s a reason they say a picture is worth a thousand words.
            When you first picked up this book, what did you look at? I’m bet-
            ting it was the pictures.
               Granted, if you interest readers with a good visual or headline,
            yes, they may go on to read your copy. But the point is, visuals
            work fast. As the larger brands become globally marketed, visual
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08   10:06 AM   Page 53

                                     A Clean Sheet of Paper                      53

            solutions will become even more important. They translate, not sur-
            prisingly, better than words.
               Visual solutions are so universal, they work even after years in a
            deep freeze. Look at the 1879 ad for the Diebold Safe & Lock
            Company of Cleveland, Ohio (Figure 3.11). Putting aside the issue
            of whether this is a good ad or not, I’ll bet it’s a lot better than any
            verbal equivalent from other safe manufacturers of the times.
            (“Doers of Evil and Kriminal Minds agree, Monies safekept in an
            Acme Vault are ne’er Pilfered For Gambling & Likker.”)
               The ad for Mitsubishi’s Space Wagon (Figure 3.12) from
            Singapore’s Ball Partnership is one of my all-time favorites. The mes-
            sage is delivered entirely with one picture and a thimbleful of words.
            What could you possibly add to or take away from this concept?
               Relying on one simple visual means it assumes added responsi-
            bilities and a bigger job description. You can’t bury your main sell-
            ing idea down in the copy. If readers don’t get what you’re trying to
            say from the visual, they won’t get it. The page is turned.
               Don’t take my word for it. Watch someone in the airport read a
            magazine. They whip through, usually backward, at about two sec-

                              Figure 3.11 A visual ad from the 1800s.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:06 AM    Page 54

            54                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                 Figure 3.12 Long-copy ads can be great. This is not one of them.

            onds per page. They glance at the clock on the wall. They turn a
            page. They think about the desperate, pimpled loneliness of their
            high school years. They look at a page. They see your ad.
              If you can get them to take in your visual (or read your headline),
            your ad is a resounding success. Break out the Champale. Call your
            parents. You are a genius.

            Coax an interesting visual out of your product.
            One day when he was a little boy, my son Reed and I went through
            this mental exercise using his toy car. I held the car in its traditional
            four-wheels-to-the-ground position and asked him, “What’s this?”
            “A car,” he said. I tipped it on its side. Two wheels on the ground
            made the image “a motorcycle.” I tipped the car on its curved top.
            He saw a hull and said, “Boat.” When I set it tailpipe to ground,
            pointing straight up, he saw propulsion headed moonward and told
            me, “It’s a rocket!”
               Look at your product and do the same thing. Visualize it on its
            side. Upside down. Make its image rubber. Stretch your product
            visually six ways to Sunday, marrying it with other visuals, other
            icons, and see what you get—always keeping in mind you’re trying
            to coax out of the product a dramatic image with a selling benefit.
               What if it were bigger? Smaller? On fire? What if you gave it
            legs? Or a brain? What if you put a door in it? What is the wrong
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:06 AM    Page 55

                                    A Clean Sheet of Paper                        55

            way to use it? How else could you use it? What other thing does it
            look like? What could you substitute for it? Take your product,
            change it visually, and by doing so, dramatize a customer benefit.

            Get the visual clichés out of your system right away.
            Certain visuals are just old. Somewhere out there is a Home for
            Tired Old Visuals. Sitting there in rocking chairs on the porch are
            visuals like Uncle Sam, a devil with a pitchfork, and a proud lion,
            just rocking back and forth waiting for someone to use them in an
            ad once again. And grousing, “When we were young, we were in all
            kinds of ads. People used to love us.”
               Remember: Every category has its own version of Tired Old
            Visuals. In insurance, it’s grandfathers flying kites with grandchil-
            dren. In the tech industries, it’s earnest people looking at computer
            screens. And in beer, it’s boobs. Learn what iconography is
            overused in your category, and avoid it.
               Check out the ad for Polaris watercraft in Figure 3.13. It’s just a
            wild guess, but I’m thinkin’ this is probably the first use of a hippo
            in the Jet Ski category.

              Figure 3.13 In the watercraft category, a Tired Old Visual might be a
                        happy, wet family having a grand time waterskiing.
                            That is why this marvelous ad stands out.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08   10:06 AM   Page 56

            56                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

             Figure 3.14 The mental image this ad paints of two kids landing on their
                   duffs is more powerful than actually showing them that way.

            Show, don’t tell.
            Telling readers why your product has merit is never as powerful as
            showing them. I could take all day explaining how well a certain
            brand of vacuum cleaner works, but you’ll sit up and take notice
            when I plug it in and show how it empties a sandbox in under a
            minute. Showing the benefit of your product also allows readers to
            reach their own conclusions. It’s more involving.
              This great ad by BMP in London for Fisher-Price’s antislip roller
            skates (Figure 3.14) is a good example of the benefits of showing
            your story, not telling it. It’s one of my all-time favorites.

            Saying isn’t the same as being.
            This is a corollary to the previous point. If a client says, “I want peo-
            ple to think our company is cool,” the answer isn’t an ad saying,
            “We’re cool.” The answer is to be cool. Nike never once said, “Hey,
            we’re cool.” They just were cool. C’mon, think about it. The Beatles
            didn’t meet in the third-floor conference room and go over a pre-
            sentation about how they were going to become known as cool.
            They just were cool.
              The folks at Crispin Porter ⫹ Bogusky think the same way, focus-
            ing often on what they call “proof points.” As an example, for their
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:06 AM    Page 57

                                    A Clean Sheet of Paper                       57

            auto client MINI Cooper they could have run a TV commercial that
            said, “Hey America, this is one unconventional car that puts the fun
            back in driving!” Instead, they mounted a MINI on top of an SUV
            (typically the space you strap down the fun stuff like bikes and surf-
            boards) and drove the hulking gas-guzzler around town with a mes-
            sage that said, “What are you doing this weekend?” The damn car fit
            up there. And when you saw this thing drive by you on the street, it
            was more than just a claim of unconventionality and fun. It was proof.
               As Miss Manners politely points out, “It is far more impressive
            when others discover your good qualities without your help.”

                   “THE REVERSE SIDE ALSO HAS A REVERSE SIDE.”
            When everybody else is zigging, you should zag.
            There was this really dumb supervillain in the old Superman
            comics, Bizzaro-Man. He did everything . . . opposite. It was really
            stupid (and cool). Try being Bizzaro-Man.
               If your product is white sheets, write the headlines in mud. If your
            product is beautiful, show something ugly. If your product is an
            insurance ad, design it like a poster for a rock concert. Try writing
            your copy backward. Encircle the logo for your bank client with hot
            dogs. I’m not saying all this Bizzaro crap makes your idea great. But
            you should at least search as far outside the boundaries of conven-
            tion as you can. It’s likely you’ll end up pulling back a bit, but you
            won’t know what’s out there until you go.
               Steve Dunn, a fabulous art director from London, put it this way:
            “One thing I recommend is at some point you should turn every-
            thing on its head. Logos usually go lower right, so put them top left.
            Product shots are usually small, make them big. Instead of head-
            lines being more prominent than the body copy, do the opposite. It’s
            perverse, but I’m constantly surprised how many times it works.”11

            Don’t be different just to be different.
            You must have a reason to “zag,” one beyond just the desire to be
            different. Bill Bernbach said it best:

              Be provocative. But be sure your provocativeness stems from your
              product. You are not right if in your ad you stand a man on his head
              just to get attention. You are right if [it’s done to] show how your
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:06 AM    Page 58

            58                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

              product keeps things from falling out of his pockets. Merely to let
              your imagination run riot, to dream unrelated dreams, to indulge in
              graphic acrobatics is not being creative. The creative person has har-
              nessed his imagination. He has disciplined it so that every thought,
              every idea, every word he puts down, every line he draws . . . makes
              more vivid, more believable, more persuasive the . . . product
              advantage.12

            Consider the opposite of your product.
            What doesn’t the product do? Who doesn’t need the product?
            When is the product a waste of money? Study the inverse problem
            and see where negative thinking leads.
              I saw a great opposite idea in a student book. It was a small
            poster for a paint manufacturer that painters could put up after
            their job was finished. Above the company’s logo, this warning:
            “Dry Paint.” Recently, I saw another good one in the New York
            Times Magazine. It’s called reverse graffiti. If you wipe or sand the
            grime off the wall of derelict property, words and images can be
            formed by the cleaned area. The kid described in the article was
            accused by the local city council of breaking the law. “For what?” he
            asked. “Cleaning without a permit?”13

            Avoid the formula of saying one thing and showing another.
            “Your kids deserve a licking this summer” . . . and then you have a
            picture of some kids with lollipops. Get it?
               Again, this isn’t a rule. But if you use this sort of setup, make sure
            the difference between word and picture is breathtaking. The polar-
            ity between the two should fairly crackle. This ad from Leagas-
            Delaney in London is a good example (Figure 3.15).

            Move back and forth between wide-open, blue-sky thinking
            and critical analysis.
            It’s like this: Up there in my brain, there’s this poet guy. Smokes a
            lot. Wears black. He’s so creative. And “chicks dig ’im.” He’s got a
            million ideas. But 999,000 of them suck. He knows this because
            there’s also a certified public accountant up there who tells him so.
               “That won’t work. You suck.”
               The CPA is a no-nonsense guy who clips coupons and knows how
            to fix the car when the poet runs it into the ditch on his way to
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:06 AM   Page 59

                                   A Clean Sheet of Paper                       59

                 Figure 3.15 A very good example of picture playing off word,
                            done by two very naughty British boys.

            Beret World. Between the two of them, though, I manage to come
            up with a few ideas that actually work.
              The trick is to give each one his say. Let the poet go first. Be
            loose. Be wild. Then let the CPA come in, take measurements, and
            see what actually works. I sense that I’m about to run this metaphor
            into the ground, so I’ll just bow out here by saying, go back and
            forth between wild dorm-room creativity and critical dad’s-
            basement analysis, always keeping your strategy statement in mind.

            See if you can avoid doing the old “exaggeration” thing.
            Sometimes I think there’s this tired old computer program inside
            every copywriter’s and art director’s head. I call this programming
            circuitry the Exaggeration chip.
               Say you’re doing an ad for, oh, a water heater. The Exaggeration
            chip’s first 100 ideas will be knee-jerk scenarios about how cold the
            water will be if you don’t buy this water heater: “Water heater?
            Easy. What you do is, like, you have ice cubes comin’ out of the water
            faucet. See? ’Cause it’s so cold the water faucet will have like ice
            cubes, see? Ice cubes . . . ’cause they’re cold.”
               Now, granted, there are plenty of great commercials out there that
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp      1/2/08   10:06 AM     Page 60

            60                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            use exaggeration to great effect. I’ll just warn you that the E-chip is
            typically the first mental program many creatives will apply to a
            problem.
              Buy a lottery ticket and you’ll be so rich that _________________.
                (Fill in with I’m-really-rich joke here.)
              Buy this car and you’ll go so fast that ________________________.
                (Insert acceleration/cop-giving-ticket joke.)
              It’s just a little too easy. But here’s the other thing. The E-chip
            will rarely lead you to a totally unexpected solution. You will end up
            somewhere in the same neighborhood as you started, maybe a little
            further out to the edge, but still nearby. A place you will likely share
            with everybody else who’s working on the problem with an E-chip.
            In which case, it’ll simply come down to who has the wackiest
            exaggeration.

            Interpret the problem using different mental processes.
            See what happens. From a book called Conceptual Blockbusting, by
            James Adams, I excerpt this list:14
                     build up                 dissect            transpose
                     eliminate                symbolize          unify
                     work forward             simulate           distort
                     work backward            manipulate         rotate
                     associate                transform          flatten
                     generalize               adapt              squeeze
                     compare                  substitute         stretch
                     focus                    combine            abstract
                     purge                    separate           translate
                     verbalize                vary               expand
                     visualize                repeat             reduce
                     hypothesize              multiply           understate
                     define                   invert             exaggerate

            Put on different thinking caps.
            How would the folks at today’s top agencies solve your problem?
            Chiat/Day, for instance. How would they solve it at Crispin? At
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:06 AM   Page 61

                                    A Clean Sheet of Paper                        61

            Goodby? How would they approach your problem at Disney? At
            Apple? At Amblin?
              Shake the Etch A Sketch in your head, start over constantly, and
            come at the problem from wildly different angles. Don’t keep sniff-
            ing all four sides of the same fire hydrant. Run through the entire
            neighborhood.

            Metaphors must’ve been invented for advertising.
            They aren’t always right for the job, but when they are, they can be
            a quick and powerful way to communicate. Shakespeare did it:
            “Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day?”
               In my opinion (and the neo-Freudian Carl Jung’s), the mind works
            and moves through and thinks in and dreams in symbols. Red means
            ANGER. A dog means LOYAL. A hand coming out of water means
            HELP. Ad people might say that each of these images has “equity,”
            something they mean by dint of the associations people have
            ascribed to them over the years. You may be able to use this equity to
            your client’s advantage, particularly when their product or service is
            intangible like, say, insurance. A metaphor can help make it real.
               What makes metaphors particularly useful to your craft is they’re
            a sort of conceptual shorthand and say with one image what you
            might otherwise need 20 words to say. They get a lot of work done
            quickly and simply.
               The trick is doing it well. Just picking up an image/symbol and
            plopping it down next to your client’s logo won’t work. But when
            you can take an established image, put some spin on it, and use it in
            some new and unexpected way that relates to your product advan-
            tage, things can get pretty cool.
               As soon as I put those words on paper, I remembered the marvelous
            British campaign for the Economist. In the one reprinted here (Figure
            3.16), an unadorned keyhole is simply plopped down next to the logo.
            One stroke is all it takes to give the impression that this business mag-
            azine has inside information on corporations. So much for rules.
               Still, I stand by the advice. Symbols lifted right off the rack usu-
            ally won’t fit your communication needs and typically need some
            spin put on them.
               Example: By overlaying the image of stairs descending into the
            ocean, the creative team is able to paint a very quick picture of what
            awaits you at the Sydney Aquarium (Figure 3.17).
               Verbal metaphors can work equally well, too. I remember a great
            ad from Nike touting their athletic wear for baseball. Below the
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:06 AM    Page 62

            62                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Figure 3.16 Metaphor as ad. Keyhole ⫽ competitive business information.

            picture of a man at bat, the headline read, “Proper attire for a
            curveball’s funeral.” In Figure 3.18, another verbal metaphor is put
            to good use to describe the feeling of flooring it in a Porsche.

            “Wit invites participation.”
            Part of what makes metaphors in ads so effective is that they involve
            the reader. They use images already in the reader’s mind, twist them
            to the message’s purpose, and ask the reader to close the loop for us.
            There are other ways you can leave some of the work to the reader,
            and when you do it correctly, you usually have a better ad.
               Here’s an example. Nikon cameras ran an ad with the headline:
            “If you can picture it in your head, it was probably taken with a
            Nikon.” Above this headline were four solid black squares, and
            inside each square was a small headline in white type describing a
            famous photograph.
              “A three-year-old boy saluting at his father’s funeral.”
              “A lone student standing in front of four tanks.”
              “An American President lifting his pet beagle up by the ears.”
              “A woman crying over the body of a student shot by the National
                Guard.”
              Instead of showing these famous photos, the negatives are devel-
            oped in the reader’s head. The reader sees JFK Jr. He sees
            Tiananmen Square. He sees LBJ and Kent State. “Hey, I know all
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:06 AM   Page 63

                                   A Clean Sheet of Paper                     63

                                                                                   Brett Odgers

                  Figure 3.17 Metaphors use concepts you already understand
                                  to help you see new ones.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp      1/2/08    10:06 AM     Page 64

            64                     “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                  Figure 3.18 Verbal metaphors work just as well as visual ones.*

            these photos.” The reader connects the dots and in doing so is
            rewarded for applying his intelligence, rewarded for staying with the
            ad. The client is rewarded, too, with a reader actively closing the
            loop between the famous photos and the cameras that took them.
              In a great book called A Smile in the Mind: Witty Thinking in
            Graphic Design, authors McAlhone and Stuart say that “wit invites
            participation.”

              When wit is involved, the designer never travels 100% of the way
              [towards the audience.] . . . The audience may need to travel only 5%
              or as much as 40% towards the designer in order to unlock the puzzle
              and get the idea . . . it asks the reader to take part in the communica-
              tion of the idea. It is as if the designer throws a ball which then has to
              be caught. So the recipient is alert, with an active mind and a brain in
              gear.15

              Their point about traveling “only 5% or as much as 40%” is an
            important one. If you leave too much out, you’ll mystify your audi-
            ence. If you put too much in, you’ll bore them.

            *The PORSCHE CREST, PORSCHE and BOXSTER are registered trademarks and
            the distinctive shapes of PORSCHE automobiles are trade dress of Dr. Ing. h.c.F.
            Porsche AG. Used with permission of Porsche Cars North America, Inc. Copyrighted by
            Porsche Cars North America, Inc. Photographer: Georg Fischer.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:06 AM    Page 65

                                     A Clean Sheet of Paper                        65

              Testing the borders of this sublime area will be where you spend
            much of your time when you’re coming up with ads. Somewhere
            between showing a picture of a flaming zebra on a unicycle and an
            ad that reads “Sale ends Saturday” is where you want to be.

            The wisdom of knock-knock jokes.
            Consider these one-liners from stand-up comedian Steven Wright:
            “If a cow laughed, would milk come out her nose? . . . When you
            open a new bag of cotton balls, are you supposed to throw the top
            one away? . . . When your pet bird sees you reading the newspaper,
            does he wonder why you’re just sitting there staring at carpeting?”
               Well, I think it’s funny. In the last bit, for instance, the word news-
            paper begins as reading material and ends as cage-bottom covering.
            A shift has happened and everything is slightly off. I don’t know
            why these shifts and the sudden introduction of incongruous data
            make our computers spasm; they just do.
               You may find that jumping from one point of view to another to
            introduce a sudden new interpretation is an effective way to add ten-
            sion and release to the architecture of an ad.That very tension involves
            the viewer more than a simple expository statement of the same facts.
               Creative theorist Arthur Koestler noted that a person, on hear-
            ing a joke, is “compelled to repeat to some extent the process of
            inventing the joke, to recreate it in his imagination.” Authors
            McAlhone and Stuart add, “An idea that happens in the mind,
            stays in the mind . . . it leaves a stronger trace. People can remem-
            ber that flash moment, the click, and recreate the pleasure just by
            thinking about it.”
               A good example is this famous poster for VW from the United
            Kingdom (Figure 3.19). As a viewer, you don’t need it spelled out; in
            your head you quickly put together what happened, backward.
               “And that, dear students,” said the professor of Humor 101, “is
            why the chicken crossed the road.” Suddenly, that’s how this section
            on humor feels to me. Pedantic. So I’ll just close by saying that jokes
            make us laugh by introducing the unexpected. An ad can work the
            same way.

            Don’t set out to be funny. Set out to be interesting.
            Funny is a subset of interesting. Funny isn’t a language. Funny is an
            accent. And funny may not even be the right accent.
              I find it interesting that the Clios, a highly overrated awards show
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:06 AM    Page 66

            66                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                              Figure 3.19 Does this ad rock, or what?
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp        1/2/08     10:06 AM       Page 67

                                          A Clean Sheet of Paper                                   67

            with far too many categories, had a category called “Best Use of
            Humor.” And, curiously, no “Best Use of Seriousness.” Funny, seri-
            ous, heartfelt—none of it matters if you aren’t interesting first.
            Howard Gossage, a famous ad person from the 1950s, said, “People
            read what interests them, and sometimes it’s an ad.”

            Try not to look like an ad.
            People don’t buy magazines to look at ads. So why look like one?
            This doesn’t mean you should make it look like nonsense. Just try
            not to look like an ad. An ad says, “Turn the page.”
              Perhaps you don’t need to stick a logo in the lower right-hand
            corner. Can you find another way to sign off? Can your TV spot
            look like documentary footage? Or a soap opera?

            Try not to sound like an ad.
            Don’t let your concept get in the way of the product. Bernbach said,
            “Our job is to sell our clients’ merchandise . . . not ourselves. To kill
            the cleverness that makes us shine instead of the product.” This can
            happen, and when clients kill an ad for this reason they may be right.
               From more than one client, I’ve heard this dreaded phrase: “Your
            concept is a ‘Visual Vampire.’ ” What they mean is the concept’s
            execution is so busy it sucks the life out of their commercial mes-
            sage. Be ready for this one. Sometimes clients use the phrase as a
            bludgeon to kill something unusual they don’t like. But sometimes,
            a few of them are right.*
               This usually happens when the product bores you. Which means
            you haven’t dug deep enough to find the thing about it that’s exciting
            or interesting. You settle for doing some sort of conceptual
            gymnastics up front and tacking your boring old product on the back
            side, hoping the interest from the opening will somehow bleed over
            to your sales message. But the interesting part of an ad shouldn’t be a
            device that points to the sales message, it should be the sales message.
               To understand what it means to make your whole ad or commer-
            cial be the sales message, consider the analogy of giving your dog a
            pill. Dogs hate pills, right? So what do you do? You wrap the pill in
            a piece of baloney.
               Well, same thing with your commercial’s message. Customers

            *I’m reminded of a garage-sale sign I saw tacked to a neighborhood phone pole. To
            attract attention to the sign they’d decorated it with balloons. But the wind blew the bal-
            loons across the sign and obscured the information. See? Kinda like that.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08    10:06 AM    Page 68

            68                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            hate sales pitches. So you wrap your pitch in an interesting bit, and
            they’re more likely to bite.
              Unfortunately, most students take this to mean, “Oh, I see. All I
            have to do is show something interesting and funny for the first 25
            seconds and then cut to the product.” The answer is no. Because the
            customer will eat up the 25 seconds of interesting baloney and then
            walk away, leaving the pill in the dog dish.
              You gotta wrap that baby right into the middle of the baloney.
            The two have to be one. Your interesting device cannot just point to
            the sales message; it must be the sales message.
              Remember Bernbach’s advice: “The product, the product, the
            product. Stay with the product.” Don’t get tangled up in unrelated
            ideas, however fanciful.
              David Ogilvy used a classical reference to make this same point:
            “When Aeschines spoke, they said, ‘How well he speaks.’ But when
            Demosthenes spoke, they said, ‘Let us march against Philip.’”

                                   SIMPLE = GOOD, PART II.
            If you take away one thing from this book, let it be this advice:
            Simple is almost always better.
               Maurice Saatchi, of London’s M&C Saatchi, on simplicity:
            “Simplicity is all. Simple logic, simple arguments, simple visual
            images. If you can’t reduce your argument to a few crisp words and
            phrases, there’s something wrong with your argument.”

            “Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity!”
            Henry David Thoreau, sitting in his shack by the famous pond,
            penned this oft-quoted line. Seems to me Hank needs a dose of his
            own medicine:
              “Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity!”
            There. That’s better. Well, do the same with your ads. Look at this
            simple Nike piece (Figure 3.20). Every extraneous thing has been
            shaved away.
               That reminds me. There’s an old axiom called Occam’s razor:
            When you have two correct answers that both solve the problem,
            the more correct answer is the simplest one. Because it solves the
            problem with fewer moving parts. It solves the problem more
            elegantly.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:06 AM      Page 69

                                      A Clean Sheet of Paper                       69

            Figure 3.20 Michelangelo said: “Beauty is the purgation of superfluities.”
                      I think Michelangelo would have dug this ad, big-time.

              How difficult it is to be simple.
                                                  —Vincent van Gogh

            Simple is hard to miss.
            I’ve always thought a stop sign is a perfect metaphor for a good ad.
            It makes me stop. It is relevant. It has one word. And most of all, it
            is simple. It says, “STOP.”
               There is no introduction to “stop.” No asterisks are needed to
            understand “stop.” And “stop” needs no snappy wrap-up.
               So how is a stop sign different from a good ad in a magazine? I’m
            turning the pages and suddenly right in my face is a big, simple, rel-
            evant message. How can I ignore it? This Japanese ad touting the
            safety of Volvo cars stopped me (Figure 3.21).

            Simple is bigger.
            On May 7, 1915, a German U-boat sank a passenger ship, the
            Lusitania, killing some 1,190 civilians, many of them women and
            children. America was finally too angry to stay out of the Great
            War, and enlistment posters began to appear in shop windows, one
            of which is reprinted here (Figure 3.22).
               Most other World War I posters were not as visual and instead
            used headlines like “Irishmen, Avenge the Lusitania!” and “Take
            Up the Sword of Justice.” Seems to me, all these decades later,
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08   10:06 AM   Page 70

            70                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                 Figure 3.21 An ad produced in Japan by two guys named Masakazu
                    Sawa and Minoru Kawase. The translation to English is perfect.

            they’re not nearly as powerful as this one simple image, this one
            word.
               Look at Google (Figure 3.23). One of the biggest brands in the
            world and perhaps the best search engine out there. Yet the simplic-
            ity of their home page could hardly be scrubbed down any further;
            in fact, it hasn’t changed much since they first went online. Its very
            simplicity makes it easy to approach, easy to use. If they ever start
            adding stuff to the home page (“To see more links to YOUR favorite
            activities, click here!”), I’ll probably search somewhere else.
               Remember, in a cluttered TV or print environment, less is truly
            more. So have your radio spot be one guy saying 40 words. Have
            your print ad be all one color. Lock the camera down and do your
            whole TV spot on a tabletop. Show a scorpion walking up a baby’s
            arm, I don’t know. Just do something simple. Simple is big.
               The artist Cezanne said, “With an apple, I will astonish Paris.”

            Simple is easier to remember.
            On a rainy November day in 1863, a U.S. senator named Edward
            Everett walked up to a podium and gave a two-and-one-half-hour
            speech consecrating a new cemetery. It was an impassioned speech,
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:06 AM   Page 71

                                   A Clean Sheet of Paper                           71

              Figure 3.22 Simple graphic images are powerful. Even decades later,
                         this World War I recruitment poster still works.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:06 AM    Page 72

            72                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                         Figure 3.23 Google links to billions of sites—
                                 all from this simple home page.

            I’m sure, but I have been having trouble finding a transcript of this
            speech at the library.
              The speaker that followed gave a 273-word speech, beginning
            with the words “Four score and seven years ago . . .”
              Which of the two Gettysburg addresses given that day are you
            more familiar with?

            Simple breaks through advertising clutter.
            As we noted earlier, the only effective antidote to clutter is simplic-
            ity. How can anything else but simplicity break out of clutter?
               Even the Super Bowl, with its annual collection of eye-popping
            TV commercials, has its own brand of clutter. Call it “pretty good
            clutter” if you will. But it’s clutter just the same, and you have to
            find a way to improve what a scientist might call its “signal-to-noise
            ratio.” You have to break out. You can do that only with an idea of
            sparkling simplicity.
               The One Show recently honored a commercial created overseas
            that was sparkling in its simplicity, and inexpensive as well. The
            camera opens on a woman in a small, dingy room seen from behind
            glass. She’s wearing orange overalls and is tired and dirty—
            probably a prisoner just getting off work detail. Appearing on the
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:06 AM   Page 73

                                   A Clean Sheet of Paper                      73

            other side of the glass is her daughter, who asks, “When are you
            going to get out of here?” The exhausted mother shakes her head
            dispiritedly; all she can say for sure is, “In a while.” Their hands
            come to the glass in between and touch tenderly. “I love you,
            Momma,” says the girl before leaving. Mother replies, “I love you,
            too.” The camera pulls back and we see the glass is just a shower
            door and that Mom is in the middle of a long, dirty job of cleaning
            the tiles in their family shower. The voice-over comes in to conclude
            this simple tableau with: “Spend less time cleaning. Vim Cream.
            Cleans the tough stuff. Easily.”

            Keep paring away until you have the essence of your ad.
            Let’s start with three observations from three different men: one
            dead, one British, and one crazy.
                Robert Louis Stevenson said, “The only art is to omit.”
               Tony Cox, a fabulous British writer: “Inside every fat ad there’s a
            thinner and better one trying to get out.”
               And then there’s Neil French, one of my heroes and an
            absolutely stellar writer from Singapore. I was lucky enough to
            meet him one day, and he walked me through a wonderful exercise
            in in the art of omitting, of reductionism.
               He started by drawing a thumbnail sketch of a typical ad (num-
            ber one in Figure 3.24). You have your headline, your visual, some
            body copy, a tagline, and a logo.
               Okay, he asked, can we make this ad work without the body
            copy? Maybe we could do that by making the headline work a little
            harder. We can? Good, let’s take out the body copy. That leaves the
            slightly cleaner layout of number two.
               What about that tagline? Is it bringing any new information to
            the ad? No? Then let’s broom it. Look, the third layout’s even
            better.
               Now, about that headline. Is it doing something the visual can’t
            do? And that logo—isn’t there some way we can incorporate it into
            the visual?
               Ultimately, Neil reduced his ad to one thing. He suggested I do
            the same with my next ad. Get it down to one thing. Sometimes it’s
            just a headline. Sometimes a picture. Either way, he said, the math
            always works out the same. Every element you add to a layout
            reduces the importance of all the other elements. And conversely,
            every item you subtract raises the visibility and importance of
            what’s left.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp      1/2/08   10:06 AM    Page 74

            74                     “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                 Figure 3.24 Neil’s cool idea: reductionism. Ad number five is almost
                            always going to be better than ad number one.

              I admit, this kind of draconian reductionism is hard to pull off,
            especially when you have a client wanting to put more in an ad,
            not less. In my career I’ve done it only once. But to this day, that
            ad remains one of my favorites. It’s the one you see here, remind-
            ing store buyers to stock Lee jeans (Figure 3.25). No logo. No
            headline.
              The less you have to put in the ad, the better. The writer Saki
            said, “When baiting a trap with cheese, always leave room for the
            mouse.”

                                 LET’S START WITH OUTDOOR.
            Billboards force you to be simple.
            In all of advertising, billboards are the best place to practice the art
            of simplicity. In fact, my first mentor, Tom McElligott, told me if you
            have outdoor in the media mix for the campaign you’re about to do,
            start there first. Nothing focuses you on a problem like this
            medium.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08    10:06 AM    Page 75

                                      A Clean Sheet of Paper                           75

              Figure 3.25 It’s hard to read as it’s reprinted here, but the little warning
             sign says: “This changing booth is monitored by store personnel to prevent
               theft, particularly theft of Lee jeans, the #1 brand of women, something
                   that would really cheese off our store buyers, especially now that
                      Lee has lowered their wholesale prices and the store stands
                                     to rake in some serious profit.”

               It’s been said that a board should have no more than seven
            words. Any more and a passing driver can’t read it. But then you
            add the client’s logo. One or two words. Now you’re up to nine. And
            if your visual is something that takes one or two beats to under-
            stand, well, in my opinion, you’ve already got too much on your
            plate.
               I suggest draconian measures. Shoot for three words, tops. It
            doesn’t mean you’ll be able to keep it to three. But start with three
            as your goal. The board from the 1960s pictured here (Figure 3.26)
            works with just one word.
               Here’s a great way to test whether your outdoor ad is simple
            enough and works fast. It’s also a great way to present it to the
            client. Walk up to your client, holding the layout of the idea with its
            back to your audience. Say, “Okay, here’s a billboard we were think-
            ing about” and then flip it around and show them the idea for two
            seconds.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM   Page 76

            76                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                   Figure 3.26 This old 1960s billboard for Pan Am Airlines
                                 does its job with one word.

               Just two seconds—one Mississippi, two Mississippi—then flip it
            back around again.
               Check out this wonderful billboard for a new flavor of Altoid’s
            Curiously Strong Mints (Figure 3.27). It’s marvelous. And it’s fast.
            Two words and a product shot. You hardly have to count past “one
            Mississippi” to get it. Same thing for the great board for the JFK
            museum (Figure 3.28). One visual, three words. Elegant and very
            fast.
               Your outdoor ideas will have to work just as quickly. Visualize
            precisely how your idea is going to be viewed by the customer. Car
            approaches, billboard whizzes by, and it’s gone. If the idea you’re
            showing is as fast as these, I’ve found this presentation technique
            can be persuasive. Remember, the rule is your board has to go at
            least 65 miles an hour.

                     Figure 3.27 An example of a billboard so simple you
                       could actually present it to a client in two seconds.
                 (Reprinted with permission of Callard & Bowser-Suchard, Inc.)
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM   Page 77

                                   A Clean Sheet of Paper                      77

                   Figure 3.28 Three beautifully chosen words that make the
                                reader reinterpret the visual.

            Outdoor is a great place to get outrageous.
            Big as they are on the landscape, outdoor boards are an event, not
            just an ad. In fact, what makes for a good print advertisement
            doesn’t necessarily make for a good billboard. Whatever you do,
            don’t create something just okay. The final size of a billboard out
            there in the world only magnifies how an idea is just

            OK AY.
            You don’t wanna be just okay.
               Check this board out; it’s way better than okay. Adidas brought to
            life its “Impossible is nothing” tagline with a live-action board in
            New Zealand. To launch the Fifa World Cup games there, the agency
            (TBWA/Whybin) created a reverse bungee “Sky Screamer” ride
            that looked like a giant soccerball, setting it up in front of a large
            image of a popular player, Steven Gerrard. Fans who purchased a
            ball were given the chance to “Be the Ball” and were strapped in on
            seats inside. A sportscaster gave commentary on a match and at the
            exact second they described Gerrard kicking the ball, the Sky
            Screamer launched, reaching 105 mph in two seconds (Figure 3.29).
               Outdoor begs for the ostentatious. Go for broke. Remember,
            you’re in “made-you-look, made-you-look” territory here. Outdoor
            companies, prop makers, and tech firms can help bring just about
            any wild idea to life. And now with the confluence of the Web and
            mobile phones, people on the street can interact with boards, send-
            ing either video or text for all the world to see.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM   Page 78

            78                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                        Figure 3.29 An example of “outdoor as event.”

            Your outdoor must delight people.
            Except for the handful of great ideas in the One Show every year,
            most of the outdoor I see really sucks. When an ad in a magazine
            isn’t good, I can turn the page. But if I live across the street from a
            bad billboard, there’s nothing I can do about it except close my
            curtains.
               Copywriter Howard Gossage didn’t believe outdoor boards were
            a true advertising medium: “An advertising medium is a medium
            that incidentally carries advertising but whose primary function is to
            provide something else: entertainment, news, etc. . . . Your exposure
            to television commercials is conditional on their being accompanied
            by entertainment that is not otherwise available. No such parity or
            tit-for-tat or fair exchange exists in outdoor advertising. . . . I’m
            afraid the poor old billboard doesn’t qualify as a medium at all; its
            medium, if any, is the scenery around it and that is not its to give
            away.”16
               The city of Sao Paulo, Brazil, has already outlawed billboards,
            and here in America several states are weighing similar bans. Well,
            until the day billboards are outlawed altogether (either as “corpo-
            rate littering” or perhaps “retinal trespassing”), you owe the citi-
            zens of the town where your outdoor appears—you owe them your
            very best work. You must delight them.
15934_Sullivan_c03_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM   Page 79

                                    A Clean Sheet of Paper                       79

                                A FEW THINGS BEFORE WE
                                   BREAK FOR LUNCH.
            Learn to recognize big ideas when you have them.
            There will come a time when you see a great idea in a One Show
            annual, a campaign that’ll make you go, “Damn! I thought of that
            once!” It’s a hard thing to see, “your” idea done, and done well.
            That’s why you have to be smart enough to pursue a promising idea
            once you’ve stumbled onto it. I’m reminded of a line by Ralph
            Waldo Emerson: “In every work of genius we recognize our own
            rejected thoughts.”
               See that one idea you have up on the wall? The one that’s so
            much better than the others? Investigate why. There may be oil
            under that small patch of land. A big idea is almost always incredi-
            bly simple. So simple, you wonder why nobody’s thought of it
            before. It has “legs” and can work in a lot of different executions in
            all kinds of media.
               Coming up with a big idea is one skill. Recognizing a big idea is
            another skill. Develop both.

            Big ideas transcend strategy.
            When you finally come upon a big idea, you may look up from your
            pad to discover that you’ve wandered off strategy.
              That’s okay. The gold isn’t always in them hills. But gold is gold,
            and good account people will understand this and help you retool
            the strategy to get the client past this unexpected turn in the road.
              My friend Mike Lescarbeau compares a big idea to a nuclear
            bomb. Does it really have to land precisely on target to work?

            Don’t keep runnin’ after you catch the bus.
            After you’ve covered the walls with ideas and you’ve identified some
            concepts you really like, stop. And I mean covered the walls. This isn’t
            permission to stop because you’re tired or you have a few things that
            aren’t half-bad. It’s a reminder to keep one eye on the deadline.
               Blue-skying is great. You have to do it. But there comes a time
            (and you’ll get better at recognizing it) when you’ll have to cut bait
            and start working on the really good ones. You have a fixed amount
            of time, so you’ll need to devote some of it to making what’s good
            great.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:07 AM    Page 80

              Figure 4.1 A short course in copywriting from one of the best teachers
                                   in the world: Volkswagen.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM   Page 81

                                             4
                          Write When You
                            Get Work
                   Making an ad—some finer touches

            BEFORE WE BEGIN, A QUICK NOTE. The first edition of this book
            came out in 1998—last century, basically. At the time, the possibili-
            ties of advertising online were just starting to be realized, and since
            then the number of other media used to deliver advertising has
            gone kaleidoscopic.
               That said, to begin our discussion of advertising ideas we still
            have to start somewhere. And for the purposes of this book, we’ll
            make the humble print ad our starting point. No, it’s not interactive
            and it doesn’t link to other print ads. You don’t have to go to L.A. to
            make a print ad, and it usually ends life under a puppy or a bird. But
            in its simple two dimensions and blank white space, it contains all
            the challenges we need in order to discuss the creative process.
               So let’s begin.

            Come up with a lot of ideas. Cover the wall.
            It’s tempting to think that the best advertising people just peel off
            great campaigns 10 minutes before they’re due. But that is percep-
            tion, not reality.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM   Page 82

            82                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               In fact, “Perception/Reality” (the famous Rolling Stone cam-
            paign) is a perfect case in point. Those great ads that you may have
            seen in all the awards annuals are only the tip of the iceberg. The
            rest of it, a four-foot-high pile of other layouts, sat in writer Bill
            Miller’s office for years. So massive was the pile of ideas that what
            he didn’t use as ads actually served as a small table.
               As a creative person, you will discover your brain has a built-in
            tendency to want to reach closure, even rush to it. Evolution has left
            us with circuitry that doesn’t like ambiguity or unsolved problems.
            Its pattern-recognition wiring evolved for keeping us out of the
            jaws of lions, tigers, and bears—not for making lateral jumps to dis-
            cover unexpected solutions. But in order to get to a great idea,
            which is usually about the 500th one to come along, you’ll need to
            resist the temptation to give in to the anxiety and sign off on the
            first passable idea that shows up.
               Linus Pauling: “The best way to get a good idea is to get a lot of
            ideas. . . . At first, ideas seem as hard to find as crumbs on an orien-
            tal rug. Then they start coming in bunches. When they do, don’t stop
            to analyze them; if you do you’ll stop the flow, the rhythm, the
            magic. Write them down and go on to the next one.”
               Which leads to our next point.

            Quick sketches of your ideas are all you need
            during the creative process.
            Don’t curb your creativity by stopping the car and getting out every
            time you have an idea you want to work out. Just put the concept on
            paper and continue moving forward. You’ll cover more ground this
            way.

            Tack the best ideas on the wall.
            Seeing them up there all in a bunch helps you determine whether
            there are campaigns forming and where there are holes that need to
            be filled.
              You keep working on the details on your pad. But up there on
            the wall the big picture begins to take shape.

            Write. Don’t talk. Write.
            Don’t talk about the concepts you’re working on. Talking turns
            energy you could use to be creative into talking about being creative.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM    Page 83

                                  Write When You Get Work                         83

            It’s also likely to send your poor listener looking for the nearest
            espresso machine because an idea talked about is never as exciting as
            the idea itself. If you don’t believe me, call me up sometime and I’ll
            describe the movie The Matrix to you.
               There’s an old saying: “A manuscript, like a fetus, is never
            improved by showing it to somebody before it is completed.” Work.
            Just work. The time will come to unveil. For now, just work. The best
            ad people I know are the silent-but-deadly kind. You never hear
            them out in the hallways talking about their ideas. They’re working.

            Write hot. Edit cold.
            Get it on paper, fast and furious. Be hot. Let it pour out. Don’t edit
            anything when you’re coming up with the ads.
               Then, later, be ruthless. Cut everything that is not A-plus work.
            Put all the A-minus and B-plus stuff off in another pile you’ll revisit
            later. Everything that’s B-minus on down, put on the shelf for
            emergencies.

              The wastepaper basket is the writer’s best friend.
                                                             —Novelist Isaac Singer

            Once you get on a streak, ride it.
            When the words finally start coming, stay on it. Don’t break for
            lunch. Don’t put it off till Monday. You’d be surprised how cold
            some trails get once you leave them for a few minutes.
              Athletes call this place (where everything is working, where all
            the pistons are firing) “the Zone.” Some artists call it “the White
            Moment.” I call it “that Brief Moment each week when I Don’t
            Suck.”
              The moral: Never walk away from a hot keyboard (or a drawing
            pad).

            If it makes you laugh out loud, make it work. Somehow.
            You know those really funny ideas you get that make you laugh and
            say, “Wouldn’t it be great if we could really do that?” Those are
            often the very best ideas, and it is only your superego/parent/
            internalized client saying you can’t do it. You’ve stumbled on a mis-
            chievous idea. Something you shouldn’t do. That’s a good sign
            you’re on to something you should do. Revisit it.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM    Page 84

            84                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                 HOW TO WRITE HEADLINES BETTER THAN THIS ONE.
            Get puns out of your system right away.
            Puns, in addition to being the lowest thing on the joke food chain,
            have no persuasive value. It’s okay to think them. It’s okay to write
            them down. Just make sure you toss them.

            Don’t just start writing headlines willy-nilly. Break it down.
            Do willy first. Then move on to nilly.
            If you have an assignment that calls for a more verbal solution, don’t
            just start spitting out the headlines. Instead, methodically explore
            different attributes and benefits of your product as you write.
               Here’s an example from my files. The project is a bourbon.
               The client can afford only a small-space newspaper campaign
            and a billboard or two. They’ve said they want to see their bottle, so
            the finished ads will likely be just a bottle and a headline. After
            some discussion with the account folks about tone (“thoughtful,
            intellectual”), the art director and I consider several avenues for
            exploration.
               The bourbon’s age might be one way to go. Bourbon, by law, is
            aged a minimum of two years, often up to eight, sometimes longer.
            So we start there to see what happens. We put our feet up and
            immediately begin discussing the movie The Terminator. Sometime
            after lunch we take a crack at the “aging” thing.

              AGE IDEAS
              Order a drink that takes nine years to get.
              Like to hear how it’s made? Do you have nine years?
            (Note: On the pages from the actual file, there are about five false
            starts for each one of these headlines. Tons of scratch-outs and half-
            witted ideas that go nowhere.)
              Nine years inside an oak barrel in an ugly warehouse. Our idea of
                quality time.
              After nine years of trickle-down economics, it’s ready just in time.
              Nine long years in a barrel. One glorious hour in a glass.
              Okay, nine years. What else happens in nine years? What about
            the feeling of the slow passage of time?
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:07 AM      Page 85

                                  Write When You Get Work                            85

              Continental drift happens faster than this bourbon.
              Mother Nature made it whiskey. Father Time made it bourbon.
              We can’t make it slow enough.
              What wind does to mountains, time does to this bourbon.
              On May 15th, we’’ll be rotating Barrel #1394 one-quarter turn to
               the left. Just thought you’d like to know.
              Tree rings multiply. Glaciers speed by. And still the bourbon waits.

              Maybe one of these might work. There’s another take on age we
            might try—namely, how long the label’s been on the market. Not
            the age of the whiskey, but of the brand.

              HISTORY OF BRAND IDEAS
              First bottled when other bourbons were knee-high to a swizzle
                 stick.
              First bottled back when American History was an easy course.
              First bottled when American History was called Current Events.
              First bottled when the Wild West meant Kentucky.
              Smoother than those young whippersnapper bourbons.
              Back in 1796, this bourbon was the best available form of central
                heating.
              The recipe for this bourbon has survived since 1796.
              Please don’t bury it in a mint julep.
              Write us for free information on what you can do with wine
               coolers.
              We’ve been making it continuously since 1796. (Not counting that
               brief unpleasantness in the 1920s.)
              If you can’t remember the name, just ask for the bourbon first
                 bottled when Chester A. Arthur was president.
              110 years old and still in the bars every night.
              If we could get any further behind the times, we would.
              Are we behind the tymes?
              A blast from the past.
              First bottled before billboards.
              This premium bourbon was first marketed via ox.
              Introduced 50 years before ice cubes.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08       10:07 AM   Page 86

            86                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

              Okay, maybe there’s some stuff we could use from that list.
            Maybe not. So far we’ve played with aging and brand history. What
            about where it’s made?

              KENTUCKY IDEAS
              Kind of like great Canadian whiskey. Only it’s bourbon. And from
                Kentucky.
              Kind of like an old Kentucky mule. Classic, stubborn, and plenty
                of kick.
              From the third floor of an old warehouse in Kentucky, heaven.
              Warming trend expected out of Kentucky.
              Now available to city folk.
              If this ad had a jingle, it’d be “Dueling Banjos.”
              What the Clampetts would serve the Trumps.
              This bourbon is the real McCoy. Even the Hatfields agreed.
              It’s not just named after a creek in Kentucky. It’s made from it.
              This is a beautiful picture of a tiny creek that flows through the
                back hills of Kentucky. (Picture of bottle.)
              Old as the hills it’s from.
              Smooth. Deep. Hard to find. Kind of like the creek we get the
                water from.
              Hand-bottled straight from a barrel in Kentucky. Strap in.
              Tastes like a Kentucky sunset looks.
              Its Old Kentucky Home was a barrel.
               Maybe those last two might also make for good outdoor, given
            how short they are. We make a note. Remember, the point here
            isn’t, hey, let’s see how many headlines can we write, but rather how
            many different doors can we go through? How many different ways
            can we look at the same problem?
               Okay, now let’s see what can be done with the way some people
            drink bourbon—straight. Or perhaps the time of day it’s drunk.
            (Wait a minute. Bad word.)

              HOW-YOU-DRINK-IT IDEAS
              With a bourbon this good, you don’t need to show breasts in the
               ice cubes. In fact, you don’t need ice cubes.
              Neither good bourbons nor bad arguments hold water.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:07 AM    Page 87

                                   Write When You Get Work                         87

              Water ruins baseball games and bourbon.
              For a quiet night, try it without all the noisy ice.
              Great after the kids are in bed. Perfect after they’re in college.
              Mixes superbly with a rocking chair and a dog.
              You don’t need water to enjoy this premium bourbon.
              A fire might be nice.
              Perfect for those quiet times. Like between marriages.

               As you can see, each one of these doors we went through—age,
            history, Kentucky—led to another hallway, full of other doors to try.
            Which is one of the marvelous things about writing. It’s not simply a
            way of getting things down on paper. Writing is a way of thinking—
            thinking with your pencil, your wrist, and your spine and just seeing
            where a thing goes.
               Clearly, a few of the bourbon ideas presented here aren’t very
            good. (Lord knows, you may think they all suck.) But like Pickett’s
            Charge at Gettysburg, with 15,000 soldiers, one or two are going to
            make it over the wall.
               One more little case study, this one for one of the nation’s largest
            airlines. They had just purchased a whole bunch of new 777s and
            A320s (read: “roomier wide-body jets”), and they wanted print ads
            to promote the benefits to business travelers.
               Well, if we break it down, perhaps some of the concepts could
            focus on more personal space and some on the comfort of the seat
            itself. We could further break it down into ideas that are headline
            driven and ideas that are visually driven.

              PERSONAL-SPACE IDEAS, HEADLINE DRIVEN
            Maybe we could try some headlines that would work by themselves
            (or perhaps with a “flat” visual like a shot of a wide aisle or a roomy
            seat).
              Most passengers would give their right arm for more room for
               their right arm.
              Everyone who’d like more personal space, raise your hand, if
                possible. (⻬)
              Getting incredibly close to people is fine for encounter groups,
                not planes.
              Now even luggage has more elbow room.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:07 AM   Page 88

            88                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

              You can use a camera lens to make your planes look big. Or you
                can buy big planes.
              Wouldn’t it be great if an airline advertised wider planes instead of
               wider smiles?
              Choose one: Bigger bags of peanuts. Bigger smiles. Bigger planes.
                We thought so.
              Airline math:The wider the plane, the shorter the flight feels.

              PERSONAL-SPACE IDEAS, A LITTLE MORE VISUALLY DRIVEN
              This, only higher.
                (VISUAL: A well-worn La-Z-Boy recliner.)
              There are two places you can stretch out and let someone solve
                your problems. With ours, you get miles.
                (VISUAL: Shrink’s office.)
              Which one would you take on a long trip? Exactly. Now let’s move
               on to planes.
               (VISUAL: Small car versus big SUV.)
              We put it in our planes.
                (VISUAL: Man in his living room, football game on TV, quizzically
              looking at flattened area of shag rug where his La-Z-Boy recliner
              used to be.)
              Traveling has always been easier when you have room to yourself.
                (VISUAL: Old family photo of three kids fussing at each other in
              the backseat of station wagon.)
              Da Vinci never designed a plane that worked, but he had this cool
                idea about personal space.
                (VISUAL: Da Vinci drawings of the body showing the arc of the
              arms, motion of legs.)

              EMOTIONAL BENEFITS, A LITTLE MORE VISUALLY-DRIVEN
            What would happen if we concentrated more on the emotional ben-
            efits of a wider more comfortable seat?
              If our new seat doesn’t put you to sleep, try reading the whole ad.
                 (VISUAL: Airline seat with long copy and lots of callouts.)
              It doesn’t matter how roomy a seat is if you don’t like the service.
                 (VISUAL: Little boy dwarfed in a big dentist’s chair.)
              Almost every passenger arrives feeling human.
                (VISUAL: Dog getting out of airline pet carrier.) (⻬)
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM    Page 89

                                 Write When You Get Work                         89

              “Some settling may occur during shipment.”
                (VISUAL: Seat shot with sleeping passenger.)
              With our new seats, you won’t have to count for long.
               (VISUAL: A single sheep with caption under it:“One.”) (⻬)
              When you fly with us, never promise “I’ll work on the plane.”
                 (VISUAL: Close-up shot of computer screen with menu button of
              “Sleep” backlit.) (⻬)
              Have you always done your best thinking way up high somewhere?
                (VISUAL: A kid’s treehouse seen from way at bottom of ladder,
              two sneakered feet sticking out of the door.)

               After I’ve finished writing a list about this long, I’ll go back over
            it and make a little mark (⻬) next to my favorites. Then I transfer
            those few ideas over to a clean sheet of paper and start all over.
               I mean, start all over. Pretend you have nothing so far. The fact is,
            there are only 22 airline ideas in the preceding list—22. We cannot
            seriously believe we’ll have crafted a ticket-selling, brand-building,
            One Show–winning ad after 22 stinking tries. We’ll need hundreds.
            If that sounds daunting, get ready for a long and hard career. This is
            the way it’s done.
               Remember, the wastepaper basket is the writer’s best friend.

            If the ad needs a headline, write 100.
            Sorry, but there’s no shortcut. Write 100 of them. And don’t confuse
            this with Tom Monahan’s exercise of 100-Mile-an-Hour Thinking.1
            (That’s a pretty good exercise, too, but better for the very beginning
            of the creative process. In that exercise, Tom advises creative people
            to turn on the fire hydrant for 20 minutes and catch every single
            first thought that comes out. Each idea goes on a separate Post-it
            Note, with absolutely no editing.) Nope, here I’m not talkin’ about
            100-mile-per-hour writing. This is sitting down and slowly cranking
            out 100 workable lines—100 lines that range from decent, to hey-
            not-bad, to whoa-that-rocks. The key is they all have to be pretty
            good.
               To prove this very point, Sally Hogshead bravely posted all of the
            BMW motorcycle headlines she came up with to get to her final five
            ads featured in the One Show and Communication Arts (Figure 4.2).
            Read the list and you’ll see a copywriter really thinking it through,
            rattling different doorknobs up and down the conceptual hallway,
            sometimes writing about the union of rider and bike, sometimes
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:07 AM     Page 90

            90                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                  Figure 4.2 The headline reads: “It has 3,129 integrated parts.
                                One of which is named Bill.”

            about goose bumps. They’re all pretty darn good. (She’s good at
            other stuff, too—particularly career advice for creatives. Check out
            her web site at sallyhogshead.com.)

              Even atheists kneel on a BMW. • Some burn candles when praying.
              Others, rubber. • There are basilicas, cathedrals, mosques. And then
              there’’s Route 66. • Buy one before the Church bans such marriages. •
              People take vows of chastity to feel this way. • More Westminster
              Abbey than Cal Tech. • Runners get a high from jogging around a track
              at 8 miles per hour. Pathetic. • This is exactly the sort of intimacy that
              would frighten Jesse Helms. • Fits like a glove. A metallic silver, fuel-
              injected, 150-horsepower glove. • You don’t get off a BMW so much as
              take it off. • Relationships this intimate are illegal in some states. •
              Usually, this kind of connection requires surgery. • Didn’t George
              Orwell predict man and machine would eventually become one? • The
              Church has yet to comment on such a marriage of man and machine. •
              Somebody call Ray Bradbury. We’ve combined man and machine. • Do
              you become more machine, or does it become more human? • And
              then there were two. • “Oh look, honey. What a sweet looking cou-
              ple.” • If you ever connect like this with a person, marry them. • Fits
              tighter than OJ’s glove. ⁄ • Why some men won’t stop and ask direc-
              tions. • “Darling, is that . . . a smudge of motor oil on your collar?” •
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08    10:07 AM     Page 91

                                    Write When You Get Work                               91

              The road is calling. Don’t get its message by voicemail. • The feeling is
              more permanent than any tattoo. • “Yippee! I’m off to my root canal!” •
              Your inner child is fluent in German. • The last day of school, any day of
              the year. • Your heart races, your senses tingle. Then you turn it on. •
              There is no known antidote once it gets into your blood. • There are
              no words to describe it. Unless “Wooohoo!” counts. • No amusement
              park ride can give this feeling. • If he had a mood ring on, it’d be bright
              green. • Never has a raccoon baking in the sun smelled sweeter. • How
              “joie de vivre” translates into German. • Put as much distance as possi-
              ble between you and the strip mall. • Off, off, off, off-road. • If it had a
              rearview mirror, you’d see your troubles in it. • There’s something
              worth racing towards at the end of this road: another 25 miles. • The
              best psychotherapy doesn’t happen lying on a couch. • A remote con-
              trol is a more dangerous machine. • A carnivore in the food chain of
              bikes. • If you’re trying to find yourself, you sure as hell won’t find it on
              the sofa. • If you had eight hours, alone, no radio, imagine what you
              could think about. • Where is it written the love for your motorcycle
              must be platonic? • Seems preoccupied. Comes home later than usual.
              Always wanting to get out of the house. • You possess a motorcycle.
              You’re possessed by a BMW. • Let’s see. You’re either riding it, or
              wishing you were riding it, or thinking about the last time you rode it. •
              Men who own a BMW have something else to think about every 22 sec-
              onds. • You’ve got just one companion on the road. Find one you can
              get along with. • What you’re seeing is his soul. His body’s in a meeting
              in Cincinnati right now. • Merge with traffic. Not every other motorcy-
              cle owner. • Your estimated time of arrival just got bumped up. •
              Where do you drive when you daydream? • And together they rode off
              into the sunset. • What walking on air actually looks like. • The invita-
              tion said to bring your significant other. She thinks it’s her. • Lust fueled
              by gasoline. • The bike, the girlfriend. Guess which model he’ll trade in
              first. • She wonders why she sometimes feels like a third wheel. • Room
              for luggage. None for baggage.

            The point here is both quantity and quality. You don’t get to great
            until you do a whole bunch of good.

            Save the operative part of the headline for the very end.
            You know that single part of a headline where the concept comes to
            life? That key word or phrase where the idea is unveiled? Save that
            unveiling for the end of your headline.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:07 AM    Page 92

            92                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

              Take, for example, this headline from the preceding list of airline
            ideas.
              Almost every passenger arrives feeling human.
                (VISUAL: Dog getting out of airline pet carrier.)
              The line could have been constructed other ways:
              You’ll feel human when you arrive, thanks to our new seats.
              When the seats let you sleep, almost everybody feels human on
               arrival.
            Some of the punch is missing, isn’t it? It feels better when you save
            your wrap-up punch for the end of your sentence. It has more sur-
            prise and power.

            Never use fake names in a headline.
            (Or copy. Or anywhere else for that matter.)
            “Little Billy’s friends at school call him different.” Lines like this
            drive me nuts.
               “Little Billy will never know his real father.”
               Hey, little Billy, c’mere. Go back and tell your copywriter that a
            strange man in the park said to tell him he’s a hack. Anybody read-
            ing this kind of crap knows these ad names are fake. And an irritat-
            ing kind of fake at that. Like those manufactured relatives they put
            inside of picture frames at stores.
               Avoid fake people.
               Avoid fake names.
               There are times, however, when using a person’s name is the only
            way the concept will work. And in the hands of a seasoned team, as
            in this Vitro-Robertson ad for client Taylor guitars (Figure 4.3), it
            can be done beautifully. It comes down to style. To how gracefully
            and believably you pull it off.

            Don’t let the headline flex any muscles
            when the visual is doing the heavy lifting.
            As it is in dancing, one should lead, one should follow. If your visual
            is a hardworking idea, let your headline quietly clean up the work
            left to it. And if the headline is brilliant, well-crafted, and covers all
            the bases, the visual (if one exists at all) should be merely icing on
            the cake.
               Remember, the rule of thumb is never show what you’re saying
            and never say what you’re showing. This ad for Harley-Davidson
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:07 AM    Page 93

                                  Write When You Get Work                          93

             Figure 4.3 When you have a wild visual, the headline should be straight.
                  When the headline’s doing all the work, like this one, the visual
                    should not try to take center stage. It should just “be there.”

            motorcycles is a perfect example (Figure 4.4). By itself, the visual is
            fairly tame. By itself, the headline is dull and almost meaningless.
            But together, they make one of the best ads I’ve ever seen.

            When it’s just a headline, it’d better be
            a pretty good headline.
            One of the best campaigns of all time (in this writer’s opinion) is
            Abbott Meade Vickers’s work for the Economist (Figure 4.5). This
            campaign was basically an outdoor campaign of brilliant headlines
            against a backdrop of the color red (lifted from the magazine’s
            masthead). Several of the finished ads are pictured throughout this
            book, but the lines all by themselves are also great lessons in bril-
            liant copywriting. I include my favorites here.
              Think someone under the table.
              If you’re already a reader, ask your chauffeur to hoot as you pass
                 this poster.
              “Can I phone an Economist reader, please, Chris?”
              Don’t be a vacancy on the board.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08     10:07 AM    Page 94

            94                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                       Figure 4.4 A perfect marriage of word and picture.

              If your assistant reads The Economist, don’t play too much golf.
              Retire early with a good read.
              Look forward to school reunions.
              It’s lonely at the top, but at least there’s something to read.
              E⫽iq2
              If they did brain transplants, would you be a donor or a recipient?
              In opinion polls, 100% of Economist readers had one.
              If someone gave you a penny for your thoughts, would they get
                 change?
              Would you like to sit next to you at dinner?
              Think outside the dodecahedron.
              Ever go blank at the crucial . . . thingy?
              Cures itchy scalps.
              “Is it me, or is quantum physics easier these days?”

            Certain headlines are currently checked out. You may use
            them when they are returned.
            Lines like “Contrary to popular belief . . .” or “Something is wrong
            when . . .” are pretty much used up. Get over it. Do something new.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM   Page 95

                                 Write When You Get Work                         95

              Figure 4.5 What an elegant way to say that reading the Economist can
                         help make your business thinking indispensable.

                Remember, anything that you even think you’ve seen, forget
            about. The stuff you’ve never seen? You’ll know that when you see
            it, too. It raises the hair on the back of your neck.

            Don’t use a model number in the headline.
            Client numbers like “TX-17” may seem familiar to you. But you’re
            used to it; you work on the account. In a headline, they serve only as
            a speed bump. They’re not words, they’re numerals, so they force
            readers to switch gears in their heads to 17, x45, 13z42 to get
            through your sentence.

                                 SOME NOTES ON DESIGN
                                   (FROM A WRITER).
            Something has to dominate the ad.
            Whether it’s a big headline, a large visual, or a single word floating
            in white space, somebody’s got to be the boss.
               It’s easy to spot ads where the art director (or perhaps client)
            couldn’t decide what was most important.The ads are usually in three
            big pieces.The visual takes up a third of the page.A headline takes up
            the next third. And a combination of body copy–logo–tagline brings
            up the rear. And the whole thing has about as much cohesion as a
            cookie in the rain.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM    Page 96

            96                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               Your ad needs a boss, as well as an overall visual hierarchy. The
            late Roy Grace, one of the famous art directors from Doyle Dane
            Bernbach, spoke to this issue:

              There has to be a point on every page where the art director and the
              writer want you to start. Whether that is the center of the page, the
              top right-hand corner, or the left-hand corner, there has to be an
              understanding, an agreement, and a logical reason where you want
              people to look first.2

            Avoid trends in execution.
            Don’t take your cues from design trends you see in the awards
            books. (For one thing, if they’re in the books, they’re already two
            years old. The One Show book arrives, literally, on a slow boat from
            China, where it’s printed.) But this is about more than being up-to-
            date. It’s about concentrating on the soul of an ad instead of the
            width of its lapels. Do as you wish, by all means, but I’ll warn you of
            two things. Riding the wave of every passing fad will make your
            portfolio look trendy and derivative. Also, when you enter your
            piece in a show, the judges (who’ve seen just about every trend
            come and go) will likely deep-six it in a heartbeat.

            Develop a look no one else has.
            You’ve got to find something your client can call their own: a shape,
            a color, a design, something that is unique.
               Helmut Krone: “I was working on Avis and looking for a page
            style. That’s very important to me, a page style. I feel that you
            should be able to tell who’s running that ad at a distance of twenty
            feet.”3
               What’s interesting about Krone’s statement is that he’s not talk-
            ing about billboards but print ads. And if you look at his two most
            famous campaigns, they stand up to the test. You could identify his
            Volkswagen and Avis ads from across a street (Figure 4.6).
               The longer I’m in this business, the more I’m convinced art direc-
            tion is where the major battle for brand building happens. Once you
            establish a look, once you stake out a design territory, no one else
            can use it without looking like your brand. The Economist practi-
            cally owns the color red. IBM continues to letterbox its television
            with those iconic blue bars. And Apple Computer’s signature color
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:07 AM    Page 97

                                  Write When You Get Work                          97

             Figure 4.6 In an interview, art director Helmut Krone said that the Avis
               look came from a deliberate reversal of the VW look. VW had large
                    pictures; Avis, small. VW had small body type; Avis, large.
                                     Note the absence of a logo.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:07 AM   Page 98

            98                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            of a clean white screams “Apple” before the first word of copy is
            read.
              Own something visual.

            Always do ads with babies or children.
            Oh, and another thing. Always, always write the headline in the
            script of a child’s handwriting. It’s very cute, don’t you think? ⁄ And
            don’t forget to have at least two of the letters be adorably back-
            ward. Backward E ’s are best. Backward O’s don’t work. Here’s a
            regular O and here’s a backward O. See? Not as adorable as a back-
            ward E .
               (Just checking to see if you’re awake.)

                                      WRITING BODY COPY.
            Writing well, rule #1: Write well.
            I don’t think people read body copy. I think we’ve entered a fren-
            zied era of coffee-guzzling, e-mail-sending channel surfers who
            honk the nanosecond the light turns green and have the attention
            span of a flashbulb. If the first nine words of body copy aren’t “May
            we send you beer and money for free?,” word 10 isn’t read. Just my
            opinion, mind you.
               Raymond McKinney at The Martin Agency had it right when he
            wrote a line for those condensed-book study aids: “Cliff Notes.
            When you don’t have time to see the movie.”
               Yet when I write body copy, long or short, I work hard at making
            it as smart and persuasive and readable as I can. I suggest you do
            the same. Because a few people are going to read it. And the ones
            who do, you want. They’re interested. They’re peering in your shop
            window.
               So as much as I hammer away on the importance of visual solu-
            tions, when you have to write, write smartly. With passion, intelli-
            gence, and honesty. And when you’ve said what you need to say,
            stop.

            Five rules for effective speechwriting from Winston Churchill.
                 1. Begin strongly.
                 2. Have one theme.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:07 AM    Page 99

                                  Write When You Get Work                            99

               3. Use simple language.
               4. Leave a picture in the listener’s mind.
               5. End dramatically.

            Write like you talk.
            In copy for ads, in letters to clients, and in memos to colleagues,
            write like you talk. For some reason, when handed a pen and asked
            to write something that will be seen by others, 9 out of 10 people
            decide an authoritarian tone is somehow more persuasive than
            clear English.
               Consider this memo from my files. It was written by a man about
            whom, were you to meet him, you’d say, “Sharp guy, that Bob. I
            want him on my account.” Yet Bob wrote the following memo.
            (What he was trying to say was the program was killed because it
            was too costly.)

              Effective late last week the Flavor-iffic® project was shelved by the
              Flavor-Master Consumer Products Division Management. The rea-
              soning had to do with funding generated covering cost of entry, not
              cost of entry as it would relate to test market in ’95, but as it would
              relate to expansion, if judged successful across major pieces of geogra-
              phy in ’96 and beyond. In sum, the way Flavor-Master new products
              division served up Flavor-iffic® to Consumer Products Division
              Management was that if Flavor-Master were to relax financial para-
              meters for Flavor-iffic® in ’95, ’96 and ’97, in effect have Corporate
              fund the program, Consumer Products Division could recommend to
              Corporate to proceed with the program. The decision was made at the
              Consumer Products Division Management level that Corporate would
              most probably not accept that and the subject was taken no further.

            Except for the name “Flavor-iffic,” I swear, every word of this
            memo is real.
               The program was killed because it was too costly. That’s nine
            words. Bob, in 143 words, was not only unable to get that nine-word
            message across, he effectively lobotomized his audience with a tor-
            rent of corporate nonsense that said nothing. It couldn’t be
            decoded.
               Bob proudly dictated this Rosetta stone, snapped his suspenders,
            and took the elevator down to the lobby, thinking he’d done his bit
            to turn the wheels of capitalism for the day.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:07 AM    Page 100

            100                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

              Yet when he got home, he probably didn’t talk that way to his
            wife.

              Honey, RE: supper. It has come to my attention, and the concurrent
              attention of the other family members (i.e., Janice, Bill, and Bob Jr.),
              that your gravy has inconsistencies of viscosity (popularly known as
              “lumps”), itself not a disturbing event were it not for the recent dis-
              appearance of the family dog.

               Write like you talk.
               Write with a smooth, easy rhythm that sounds natural. Obey the
            rules of grammar and go easy on the adjectives. Short sentences are
            best. One-word sentences? Fine. End with a preposition if you want
            to. And if it feels right, begin a sentence with “and.” Just be clear.
               Through it all, remember, you are selling something. Easy to for-
            get when you start slinging words.

            Write like you would talk if you were the brand.
            Every brand has a personality. You could describe Apple
            Computer’s personality perhaps as “benevolent intelligence.” Read
            any piece of copy in any Apple ad from the last 10 years—doesn’t
            matter if it’s an old ad for an Apple Lisa, or an iMac, or an iPhone.
            No matter what Apple work you read, you’ll feel like you’re listen-
            ing to the same smart big brother, one who wants to sit in the chair
            with you in front of the keyboard and show you how easy and smart
            and cool technology can be. Successful brands discover their own
            distinct voices and then stick with them year after year.
               If you’re inheriting an established voice, you can learn its
            cadences by reading their previous advertising.
               If you have a new brand or you’re creating a new voice for an old
            brand, consider yourself lucky. It’s one of the most creative and
            rewarding things you can do in this business—discovering “who” a
            brand is and giving it shape and form and voice.
               This isn’t done to create stylish writing. What you’re doing is cre-
            ating a brand personality, an important point in a marketplace
            where the physical differences between products are getting smaller
            and smaller.
               Let’s say, for example, you’re working on a car account. Most of
            the time, it’s likely you’ll have to show the car. Your ad may feel half
            art-directed already, and in a sense it is. So if it comes down to
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08    10:07 AM   Page 101

                                   Write When You Get Work                        101

            showing just a headline and a picture of a car, your headline ought
            to have a voice no one else does.
               Here are three car headlines:

              If you run out of gas, it’s easy to push.
              We’ll never make it big.
              It’s ugly, but it gets you there.

              Here are three more:

              In a fuel-obsessed society, is it blasphemy to suggest that a car
                 should be fun to drive?
              A luxury sedan based on the belief that all of the rich are not idle.
              The people with money are still spending it, but with infinitely
                more wisdom.

             Can you tell which ones are from Volkswagen and which from
            BMW? It’s pretty easy. Which is as it should be.

            Before you start writing copy, have the basic structure of
            your argument in mind.
            Know where you’re going to go. “Okay, I’ve got to come off that
            headline, then hit A, B, and then end on C.” If you neglect this
            preparation, you will buzz about in a meaningless pattern, like a fly
            on a summer screen.

            Don’t have what they call a “pre-ramble” in your body copy.
            The first paragraph of copy in many ads is usually a waste of the
            reader’s time, a repetition of what’s already been said in the head-
            line. Consider the analogy of a door-to-door salesman. Your head-
            line is what he says through the crack in the door: his name, what he
            is selling, and why it’s better than the other guy’s stuff.
               Okay, the reader has let you in. And now you’re in the foyer.
            Don’t waste time in your first paragraph being reintroductory. “Hi.
            Remember me? I’m the guy who was out in front of your door two
            seconds ago. Remember? Said my name, what I’m selling, and why
            it’s better than that other guy’s stuff?”
               Get to the point. It’s time for the details. Put your most interest-
            ing, surprising, or persuasive point in the first line if you can. You’re
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:07 AM    Page 102

            102                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            lucky if people read your headline and luckier yet if they let you
            into the foyer by reading your copy.

            Your body copy should reflect the overall concept of the ad.
            When you start writing, borrow from your concept’s imagery, lift
            colors from its palette. This advice isn’t given for stylistic reasons. It
            helps keep the ad simple. One concept, one voice, one style.
               Don’t overdo this, a common mistake that leaves copy looking
            amateurish. Use it as you would a spice. In particular, resist the urge
            to do a “snappy” last line. I suggest ending with the client’s address
            and phone number.

            “It’s not fair to inflict your own style on a strategy.”
            This is from Ed McCabe, one of the great writers of the 1970s.
            Your job is to present the client’s case as memorably as you can,
            not to come up with another great piece for your portfolio. You
            want to do both. But you aren’t likely to do both if you’re concen-
            trating on style. Don’t worry about style. It will be expressed no
            matter what you do. Style is part of the way your brain is wired.
            Just concentrate on solving the client’s problem well. The rest will
            just happen.

            Eschew obfuscation.
            My point exactly. Those words say what I mean to say, but they
            aren’t as clear as they could be. This doesn’t mean your writing has
            to be flat-footed, just understandable.
               E.B.White said, “Be obscure clearly.”

            Pretend you’re writing a letter.
            Why write to the masses? It’s one person reading your ad, isn’t it?
            So write to one person.
               Write a letter. It’s a good voice to use when you’re writing copy.
            It’s intimate. It keeps you from lecturing. The best copy feels like a
            conversation, not a speech. One person talking to another. Not a
            corporate press release typed in the PR department by some guy
            named Higgs.
               Visualize this person you’re writing the letter to. She’s not a
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM   Page 103

                                 Write When You Get Work                      103

            “Female, 18 to 34, household income of blah-blah.” She’s a woman
            named Jill who’s been thinking about getting a newer, smaller car.
            She’s in an airport, bored, trying to get a Gummi Bear out of her
            back tooth, and reading Time magazine backward.

            Provide detail.
            In headlines, in body copy, anywhere you can say something specific
            and concrete, do it. It will make your argument more persuasive
            and your ad more interesting.
               Here’s an example of the power of detail. The headline read: “It
            began 400 years before Christ. It is visible from Mars. You can touch
            it this spring.” Punctuated by a small picture of the Great Wall of
            China, the details in this headline made me keep reading about
            Royal Viking’s cruises to China.

            Once you lay your sentences down, spackle between
            the joints.
            Use transitions to flow seamlessly from one benefit to the next.
            Each sentence should come naturally out of the one that precedes
            it. When you’ve done it well, you shouldn’t be able to take out any
            sentence without disrupting the flow and structure of the entire
            piece. (This fragile coherence of beautiful writing is lost on many
            clients and is one of the reasons copywriters are often seen mum-
            bling to themselves at bus stops.)

            Break your copy into as many short paragraphs as you can.
            Short paragraphs are less daunting. I’ve never read William
            Faulkner’s classic Intruder in the Dust for this very reason. Those
            eight-page paragraphs look like work to me. Remember, nobody
            ever had to read People magazine with a bookmark. This isn’t an
            argument for dumbing down your work. Be as smart as you can be.
            Just don’t write paragraphs the size of shower curtains, okay?

            When you’re done writing the copy, read it aloud.
            I discovered this one the hard way. I had to present some copy to a
            group of five clients. I read it to them aloud. It was only during the
            act of reading it this way I discovered how wretched my copy was.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM   Page 104

            104                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Just hearing the words hanging out there in the air with their grade-
            school mistakes, seeing the flat reaction of the clients’ faces, hearing
            my voice crack, feeling the flop sweat, it’s all coming back to me.
              When you’re done writing, read it aloud. Awkward constructions
            and wire-thin segues have a way of revealing themselves when read
            aloud.

            When you’re done writing your body copy, go back and cut it
            by a third.

            Proofread your own work.
            Don’t depend on Spell-Check. First of all, that’s lazy writing.
            Second, Spell-Check can’t tell the difference between your and
            you’re. (If you have to use any computer program on your writing,
            use Suck-Check.®)

            If you have to have one, make your tagline an anthem.
            If you have to craft a tagline, work on it first. Do it early in the
            process of creating a campaign idea. Try to write about something
            bigger than just the client’s product. Own some high ground.
               In my opinion, the best ever written was for Nike: “Just Do It.”
            That’s not about shoes. It’s not just about sports, either; it’s about
            life. But it sold a lot of shoes.
               In addition to being cool because it’s about more than just some
            product, an anthem allows you executional freedom later on when
            you may have to go in new tactical directions and still work off the
            same campaign.

            But do you really have to have a tagline? A slogan?
            It’s just one more thing to cram in an ad. One more element to
            clamor for attention. From what I’ve seen, few taglines bring any
            new information to an ad. They’re usually piffle.

              “Looking Backward, but Poised Toward the Future . . .Today.”
              “A Century of Excellence for Over 50 Years.”

              Should your client insist on a tagline, I refer you to this piffle-
            generation device John Lyons included in his book Guts. “Simply
            pick one word from each column,” he wrote, “string them together,
            and you’ve created a terrific corporate slogan.”4
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:07 AM   Page 105

                                 Write When You Get Work                      105

                     Systems             Confidence           Excellence
                     Commitment          Tomorrow             Trust
                     Spirit              Achievement          Technology
                     Research            Science              Future
                     Soaring             Understanding        Quality
                     Mankind             Helping              Today
                     People              Winning              Innovations

               “Commitment to an Understanding of Excellence.” “The Spirit
            of Winning through Quality.” Ultimately, they’re all the same.
               In my opinion, unless you’ve penned a “Just Do It,” just don’t.
               I once saw a tagline tragically misfire, injuring several. The line
            was for Stouffer’s frozen entrées. The way Stouffer’s wanted you to
            read it was: “People Expect Us to Be Better.” But if you read
            “People Expect Us to Be Better,” it left a bad taste in your mouth.

            Sweat the details.
            Go to any length to get it right. Don’t let even the smallest thing
            slide. If it bothers you even a little bit, work on it till it doesn’t.
               Poet Paul Valery said, “A poem is never finished, only aban-
            doned.”

            Be objective.
            Once you’ve put some good ideas on paper and had time to polish
            them to your satisfaction, maybe it’s time to cart them around the
            hallways a little bit, even before you take them to your creative
            director. You’re not looking for consensus here, just a disaster
            check.
               This may not be your style, and if you’re not comfortable doing
            this, don’t. But it can give you a quick reality check, identify holes
            that need filling, and point out directions that deserve further
            exploration.
               Be objective. Listen to what people have to say about your work.
            If a couple of people have a problem with something, chances are
            it’s real. Keep in mind that when you’re showing an ad around the
            agency, you’re showing it to people who want to like it. Once your
            ad’s out the door, it’s quite the opposite. People will approach your
            ad thinking it’s going to be as bad as everything else they see.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:07 AM   Page 106

            106                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

              So listen to them. There’s the old maxim: “When 10 people say
            you have a tail, sooner or later you oughta turn around and look.”

            Kill off the weak sister.
            If your campaign has even one weak ad in it, replace that okay ad
            with one that is as great as the others.
               I have often talked myself into presenting campaigns that include
            weak sisters because time was running out. But readers don’t care if
            most of your ads are great. They see them one at a time, so they all
            should be excellent.
               There’s a saying the Japanese use regarding the strict quality con-
            trol in their best companies: “How many times a year is it accept-
            able for the birthing nurse to drop a baby on its head?” Is even one
            time okay?
               There’s another famous line. I don’t know who wrote it. “Good is
            the enemy of great.” It’s true. Good is easy to like. Good throws its
            arm around you and says, “Hey, I’m not so bad, am I?” You talk
            yourself into it. Next thing you know you have a campaign that goes
            great—great—good. And that’s bad.

                              WHAT TO DO IF YOU’RE STUCK.
            First of all, being stuck is a good sign. Really.
            Being stuck means you have moved through all the easy stuff.
            You’ve waded through all the crappy ideas, through the okay ideas,
            passed the low-hanging fruit, and are entering the outlying area of
            big, new thoughts. Being stuck is not only not unusual, it’s what you
            want.
              So don’t be creeped out by those long silences that can happen
            during creative sessions. You can spend whole days, even weeks, try-
            ing very hard, and come up with diddly. But I’ve found it’s only after
            you’ve suffered these excruciating days of meat-loaf brain that the
            shiny and beautiful finally presents itself to you. The trick is to stay
            with it. Suffer through it. Remember, the only way out is through.

            Leave the room and go work somewhere else.
            A conference room maybe. Or leave the agency. Work in a public
            place. Some restaurants are close to empty between one and five in
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM    Page 107

                                 Write When You Get Work                        107

            the afternoon. Hotel lobbies are great, especially those lobbies on
            the second floor that looked really “sharp and modern” on the
            architect’s drawing but nobody ever uses. And as Sally Hogshead
            reminds us, “Domino’s delivers to Starbucks.”
              There are other things you can do. If the print isn’t coming, work
            on the radio. If you can’t write the headline, write the body copy.
            And if it’s not happening during office hours, stop in the middle of
            dinner and write.

              If you are in difficulties with a book, try the element of surprise:
              attack it at an hour when it isn’t expecting it.
                                                               —H.G. Wells

            Get off the stinking computer.
            If your keyboard freezes up, get a pen and paper. In fact, you may
            find handwriting brings an altogether different part of your brain
            into play. David Fowler agrees: “Try it. . . . It’s just different. The
            connection between your hand and the page via a tiny strand of ink
            imparts something that’s somehow closer to your heart.”5

            Ignore the little voice that says, “I’m just a hack on crack
            from Hackensack.”
            We all feel that way. Even the superstars in this business secretly
            believe they’re hacks at least twice a day. The difference is they get
            better about ignoring it. In their book Pick Me, Vonk and Kestin
            give advice on making the evil little voice shut up.

              You have to learn to mute the voice. Or just use it to spur you on
              to do better. The painful truth is that all the awards in the world
              don’t take away the tyranny of the blank page. The only thing that
              does is making a mark on it. Somehow, just getting those first few
              thoughts out is helpful, even if they genuinely do suck. The act of
              moving the pen across the paper is the antidote to the belief that
              you can’t do it.6

            Go to the store where they sell the stuff.
            There is demographic data typed neatly on paper. And then there’s
            the stark reality of a customer standing in front of a store shelf
            looking at your brand and at Brand X. I’m not saying you should
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:07 AM   Page 108

            108                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            start bothering strangers in store aisles with questions. Go ahead if
            you like. I find it inspiring just to soak in the vibes of the market-
            place. Just watch. Think. I guarantee you’ll come back with some
            ideas.

            Ask your creative director for help.
            That’s what they’re there for. There is no dishonor in throwing up
            your hands and saying, “I’m in a dark and terrible place. Help me or
            I shall perish.”
               Your CD may be able to see things you can’t. She hasn’t had her
            nose two inches away from the problem for the last two weeks like
            you have. She knows the client, knows the market, and can give you
            more than an educated guess on what’s jamming up your creative
            process. Sometimes all it takes is a little push, two inches to the left,
            to get you back on track.

            Get more product information.
            You may not know enough about the problem yet, or you may not
            have enough information on the market. So ask your account
            folks or planners to go deeper into their files and bring you new
            stuff. It’s likely they edited their pile of information and gleaned
            what they thought most important. Get to the original material if
            you can.

            If you’re stuck, relax.
            Most of the books that I’ve read on creativity keep bringing up
            the subject of relaxation. You can’t be creative and be tense. The
            two events are never in the same room together. Stay loose.
            Breathe from the stomach. If you’re not relaxed, stop until you
            are. Just the simple act of physical relaxation will bring on new
            ideas. I promise.
               But remember, you do need a certain amount of pressure to be
            creative. Creativity rarely happens when things are perfectly under
            control. To make the kettle boil, a little fire is necessary, and a dead-
            line that’s a month and a half away isn’t always a good thing. I find
            that if I have too much time to complete a project, I’ll put off work-
            ing on it until two or three weeks before it’s due just so I can dial up
            the pressure a little bit.
               The trick is to control the pressure, not let it control you. Relax.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:07 AM   Page 109

                                  Write When You Get Work                       109

            Read an old Far Side collection by Gary Larson.
            The man is an absolute screaming genius. The cartoons are always
            funny. But look at the economy of his ideas. Look how simple they
            are. How few moving parts there are.
               At the very least, with a trip to Larson’s sick little world you get a
            break from the tension. But you might get that small nudge you
            need. I know I have.
               I also get that nudge by leafing through magazines from different
            categories. I’ll be working on an insurance campaign, but if there’s a
            snowboarding magazine on the conference room table, I’ll pick it
            up and go through it.
               Leafing through the awards annuals is okay, too. The shows are a
            good learning tool, early in the business; they’re a good starting
            point, early in the ideation process. But at some point, they will
            begin to steer your thinking. (I know plenty of absolutely stellar
            advertising people who don’t own a single CA or One Show.) They
            realize, sooner or later, they’re going to have to unmoor and sail
            into the unknown.

            Go to a bookstore and page through books on your subject.
            Say you’re doing an ad on outboard engines. Go to a bookstore and
            page through books on lakes, oceans, submarines, vacation spots,
            fish, pistons, hydraulics, whatever. Just let your brain soak up those
            molecular building blocks of future concepts.
               You might get the ideas flowing right there in the store. And even
            if you don’t, what’s to risk except maybe getting the hairy eyeball
            from the clerk who thinks you ought to be buying something.
            (“Hey, whattaya think this is? A li-berry?”)

            Sometimes it’s good to work on three projects at once.
            You may find that the ideas come faster if you move between proj-
            ects every hour or so. Designer Milton Glaser said, “Working on
            one thing at a time is like facing a rhinoceros; working on ten things
            at a time is like playing badminton.”

            Don’t burn up too much energy trying to make
            something work.
            Follow the first rule of holes: If you are in one, stop digging. There’s
            a book called Lateral Thinking, by Edward DeBono. His metaphor:
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM   Page 110

            110                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Don’t dig one hole and keep digging down until you hit oil; dig lots
            of shallow holes first, all over the yard.
               Even when you do manage to force a decent idea onto paper,
            after hours of wrestling with it, it usually bears the earmarks of a
            fight. You can count the dents where you pounded on the poor
            thing to force it into the shape you wanted. There’s none of the
            spontaneous elegance of an idea born in a moment of illumination.

            Be patient.
            Tell yourself it will come. Don’t keep swinging at the ball when your
            arms hurt. Maybe today’s not the day. Give up. Go see a movie.
            Come back tomorrow. Pick up the bat and keep trying. Be patient.

            Learn to enjoy the process. Not just the finished ad.
            I used to hate the long process of writing an ad. I simply wanted the
            reprint in my hands. I wanted to be in L.A. editing the spot. But
            thinking like this made my job harder than it had to be. The fact is,
            most of your time in this business will be spent in some cluttered,
            just-slightly-too-warm room, thinking, not admiring your finished
            work.
               Even if you have an award-winning career, only 0.00000002 per-
            cent of it will be spent walking up to the podium to accept an award
            at the One Show. You will spend most of your career trying to
            decide whether crisp or flaky is the right word to use. Keep remind-
            ing yourself: Let the fun be in the chase.

            Remember you aren’t saving lives.
            When you get stressed and the walls are closing in and you’re going
            nuts trying to crack a problem and you find yourself getting
            depressed, try to remember that you’re just doing an ad. That is all.
            An ad. A stupid piece of paper. It’s not even a whole piece of paper
            you’re working on. It’s just a half of a piece of paper in a magazine,
            and somebody else is buying the other side. Remember, advertising
            is powerful, and even a “pretty okay” ad can increase sales. (I know,
            I know. Don’t tell my clients I said this. But we’re talking those
            times when it feels like your mental health is at stake.) Don’t kill
            the goose trying to get a golden egg on demand.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:07 AM   Page 111

                                  Write When You Get Work                       111

              Bertrand Russell said: “One of the symptoms of an approach-
            ing nervous breakdown is the belief that one’s work is terribly
            important”

                   INSANITY, OFFICE POLITICS, AND AWARDS SHOWS.
            “Be orderly in your normal life so you can be violent
            and original in your work.”
            I don’t know much about novelist Gustave Flaubert, except he said
            the cool line you just read, and it seems to fit in right about here.
               Many creative people find that a dash of ritual in their lives pro-
            vides just the structure they need to let go creatively. I happen to
            prefer an extremely clean and empty room in which to write. That
            may sound weird, but I’ve heard of stranger things.
               In The Art and Science of Creativity, George Kneller wrote:
            “Schiller [the German poet] filled his desk with rotten apples;
            Proust worked in a cork-lined room. . . . While [Kant was] writing
            The Critique of Pure Reason, he would concentrate on a tower visi-
            ble from his window. When some trees grew up to hide the tower,
            [he had] authorities cut down the trees so that he could continue his
            work.”7
               Your office manager may not like it, but if some trees are bugging
            you, hack those suckers down.

            Be buttoned-up.
            This is a business. The whole chaos-is-good, whiskey-and-cigarettes,
            showing-up-late-for-work thing is fine for artists and rock stars. But
            advertising is only half art. It’s also half business. The thing is, both
            halves are on the deadline.
               So don’t be sloppy. Don’t be late. Meet your deadlines. Don’t
            lose your writer’s headlines. Don’t leave your art director’s lay-
            outs at home. Don’t forget to do the outdoor because the print is
            more fun.
               This also applies to expense reports and time sheets. Learn how
            to do them early on, do them impeccably, and turn them in on time.
            Be a grown-up. Sure, they’re boring. But, like watching an episode
            of The Brady Bunch, if you just sit down and apply yourself, the
            whole unpleasant thing will be over in a half hour.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM   Page 112

            112                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Don’t drink or do drugs.
            You may think that drinking, smoking pot, or doing coke makes you
            more creative. I used to think so.
                I was only fooling myself. I bought into that myth of the tortured
            creative person, struggling against uncaring clients and blind product
            managers. With a bottle next to his typewriter and his wastebasket
            filling ever higher with rejected brilliance, this poor, misunderstood
            soul constantly looks for that next fantastic idea to rocket him into
            happiness.
                In a business where we all try to avoid clichés, a lot of people buy
            into this cliché-as-lifestyle. I can assure you it is illusion.

            Identify your most productive working hours and use them
            for nothing but idea generation.
            I happen to be a morning person. By three in the afternoon, my
            brain is meat loaf and a TV campaign featuring a grocer named
            Whipple doesn’t seem like such a bad idea. But you might be
            sharper in the afternoon. Just strike while your iron is hot. And save
            those down hours for the busywork of advertising. What I call
            “phone calls and arguments.”

            Keep your eye on the ball, not on the players.
            Don’t get into office politics. Not all offices have them. If yours
            does, remember your priority—doing ads. Keep your eye on the ad
            on your desk.

            You are a member of a team.
            Don’t ever forget that. Never get into that “I did the visual” or “I
            did the headline” thing. You work as a team; you lose as a team; you
            win as a team.

            You are not genetically superior to account executives.
            During my first years in the business I was trained to look down on
            account executives. At the time, it seemed kind of cool to have a
            bad guy to make fun of. (“Oh, he couldn’t sell a joint at Woodstock.”
            “She couldn’t sell a compass to Amelia Earhart.”) But I was an idiot.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:07 AM    Page 113

                                  Write When You Get Work                           113

            It’s wrong to think that way. They are on my side. Make sure they
            are on yours.

            Stay in touch with the real world.
              Young creative people start out hungry. They’re off the street; they
              know how people think. And their work is great. Then they get suc-
              cessful. They make more and more money, spend their time in
              restaurants they never dreamed of, fly back and forth between New
              York and Los Angeles. Pretty soon, the real world isn’t people. It’s
              just a bunch of lights off the right side of the plane. You have to stay
              in touch if you’re going to write advertising that works.8
                                                           —Jerry Della Femina

            Stay in touch with the world. Read. Listen. Go places. One of my
            personal favorites is to watch TV all the time. (Is this a great busi-
            ness or what?)
               “What are you doing, honey?”
               “Oh, I’m in here analyzing the psyche of my culture—absorbing
            the zeitgeist, as it were. I can’t be bothered.”
               Read books and magazines. See all the movies. Go to the weird
            new exhibits at the museums. Know what’s out there, good and bad.
            It’s called keeping your finger on the pulse of the culture, all of
            which has direct bearing on your craft.

            On the value of awards shows.
            I shouldn’t talk. In my younger days, I was a pathetic awards hound.
            Just around April, you’d find me lurking in the mail room pining for
            “the letter” from the One Show announcing accepted entries. “Is it
            here yet? . . . Well, check againnnnnn.”
               But I won’t be too hard on myself. Our work isn’t signed. And
            when you’re new in the business, there’s no better way to make a
            name for yourself than getting into “the books. Awards shows allow
            tiny agencies to compete with the behemoths. They serve as great
            recruiting tools for agencies. And they expose us to all kinds of
            work we’d not see otherwise. So I recommend them. With some
            caveats.
               Don’t make the wrong name for yourself by entering too many
            campaigns for easy, microscopic, or public service clients. They
            might get in.
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:07 AM    Page 114

            114                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               Don’t talk about awards shows around clients or account execu-
            tives. You’ll devalue yourself in their eyes and make your work sus-
            pect. (“Is that last ad she did on strategy or is it just another entry into
            Clever-Fest?”)
               Don’t enter every show. As of this writing, I count 39 different
            national awards shows in this industry. No kidding—39. It’s pathetic
            how much this industry awards itself. (Remember, we aren’t saving
            lives. Even Hollywood isn’t this award-crazy.) Thirty-nine, and
            that’s not even counting the local shows.
               Here’s the deal. Only three of them have any merit. In my opin-
            ion, the best are the One Show and Communication Arts. And, in
            England, D&AD.
               One last thing. If awards are why you want to get into the busi-
            ness, don’t get into the business.
               Awards are candy. They’re fun. But by nature of their exclusivity,
            they represent about 0.000002 percent of all the work being created
            every year. If you hang your self-esteem on such odds, you’re likely
            to be disappointed.
               Here’s the other thing. If winning awards becomes true north on
            your compass, you’ll warp your understanding of what this business
            is about: building brands and increasing sales.
               Yes, I want you to win all kinds of awards by hitting that sweet
            spot we talked about in Chapter 3—doing ads that are great for
            your book and great for the client’s sales. But when you sit down to
            work on an ad, make sure you’re trying to get into a customer’s
            head and not into the award books.
               I remember a long, interesting talk with my former boss, Mike
            Hughes, of The Martin Agency. Over lunch one day, we wondered
            what it would be like if there were no award shows. Or barring that,
            what if our respective agencies actually banned creatives from
            entering their work in them?
               What would the creative teams come up with if we took away the
            gravitational pull of the shows? Where would creatives go if all con-
            straints, all presuppositions, and every bit of influence were
            removed, including the influence of the design and advertising
            trends being lauded in the latest awards annuals? Our opinion was
            that the teams would probably start experimenting in some fresh
            and entirely unexplored areas.
               As it turns out, neither of us had the guts to stop our agencies
            from entering work in the award shows. We understood that peer
            recognition is an important part of any endeavor. Still, we looked at
            each other and wondered, “What if?”
15934_Sullivan_c04_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:07 AM   Page 115
15934_Sullivan_c05_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:17 AM    Page 116

                Figure 5.1 If print advertising is the book, television is the movie.
15934_Sullivan_c05_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:17 AM   Page 117

                                             5
                     In the Future,
               Everyone Will Be Famous
                    for 30 Seconds
                   Some advice on making television
                            commercials

            SOMEWHERE IN AMERICA IS THE WORST DENTIST; he’s out there
            somewhere.
               We don’t know where he is, but he’s out there right now, probably
            accidentally sticking a novocaine needle in somebody’s nose or
            putting a filling in their dentures. He is the worst dentist in the
            entire country.
               And here’s the rub: No one knows who he is.
               That’s right. He’s the worst dentist in all of America, and he does
            his horrible work in anonymity. You don’t hear people gathered in
            the company kitchen goin’, “Oh, man, did you see that piece of crap
            bridgework Dr. Hansen did last week? Teeth made outta old paper-
            back books and Bubble Yum? Guy’s a complete idiot.”
               On the other hand, where is the worst commercial in all of
            America?
               It’s right there on national TV, playing night after night. Unlike
            the anonymity the worst dentist enjoys, our failures here in the ad
            industry are very public. The worst commercials from the worst
            agencies (and the worst clients) are all right up there on the big
15934_Sullivan_c05_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:17 AM   Page 118

            118                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            screen, in all their digital horror, seen by tens of millions every
            night. And people do talk about them at the office.
               Here’s my point: You don’t wanna suck in this business of adver-
            tising, and you really don’t want to suck at TV. Even your mom’s
            gonna see it.
               People generally get into this business learning their craft on
            print ads. But you’ll find as you grow, you need to start doing more
            and more TV. To advance, you’ll have to do it well. The medium
            remains a powerful way to sell stuff despite all the inroads made by
            alternative media like the Internet, digital video recorders, cell
            phones, DVD players, and video on demand.
               Many of the suggestions from the chapters on general concepting
            apply to this medium, the virtues of simplicity being perhaps the
            most important. Here are a few other things I’ve learned from my
            colleagues along the way.

                              CREATING THE COMMERCIAL.
            Rule #1 in producing a great TV commercial:
            First, you must write one.
            It takes exactly as much work to produce a bad TV spot as a good
            one. If you have a so-so storyboard approved, you’re going to put in
            the same hours producing it that they put in making Apple’s famous
            “1984” commercial (Figure 5.2).
               The writer’s job on a TV spot doesn’t end with coming up with
            the idea. That’s just the beginning of a long process—a process
            you’ll play a part in all along the way. Sell a so-so print idea and at
            least you’ll have the thing out of your hair relatively quickly. A
            so-so TV spot will haunt you for weeks. You’ll have the same long
            casting sessions as you would producing a great spot, the same boring
            hours on the set during prelighting, and the same cold coffee in the
            editing suites. But when you’re done, you’ll have a ho-hum
            commercial.
               Put in the hours now, during the creative process. Make the con-
            cept great. Otherwise, you will have a long time to wish you did.

            Make sure you know what kind of money is available
            for your project before you start.
            It’s no fun to waste time coming up with a great campaign the client
            can’t afford. So ask your account people to provide a real production
15934_Sullivan_c05_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:17 AM   Page 119

                    In the Future, Everyone Will Be Famous for 30 Seconds      119

               Figure 5.2 1/1,440th of Chiat/Day’s famous “1984” commercial for
             Apple Computers. A recent customer survey named it the best commercial
                    of all time. For a few more frames, as well as all the copy,
                                   see the One Show, volume 6.

            estimate. Don’t let them tell you the client doesn’t really know. That’s
            like walking into a Mercedes dealership and telling the salesperson
            you “don’t really know” how much you have to spend. (“I might have
            $70,000 . . . I might not. I don’t really know.”)
               Typically, production estimates are 10 percent of the total TV
            buy. Getting this figure is sometimes difficult, but somebody some-
            where at the client has a dollar amount in his head, and it’s best you
            find out what it is now.
               Remember, just because you can think it up doesn’t mean you
            can shoot it.
               Before you get too excited about selling an idea, make sure your
            idea can be executed within your budget. Even the simplest effects
            can be surprisingly expensive, and some are hard to pull off regard-
            less of the money available—particularly if they involve animals,
            children, or water.
15934_Sullivan_c05_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:17 AM   Page 120

            120                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Study the reels.
            There’s nothing like seeing a great commercial on a real television
            screen. They just don’t make the transition to the printed page very
            well. (That’s why I’ve included only a few stills from favorite spots
            in this chapter.) You need to see the reels.
               There are a lot of them out there. There’s the annual Cannes reel.
            There are the reels from the One Show and Communication Arts.
            You can also get reels from directors and effects houses, and, of
            course, there’s tons of stuff online. Ask your producers to help keep
            you up on what’s new. Stay abreast, too, of who’s shooting the
            hottest music videos. There’s a lot of churn in this industry, with new
            people coming in all the time: independent filmmakers, students out
            of school, still photographers moving into film. A sharp producer
            can help keep you up-to-date.
               Most of the commercials mentioned in this book are viewable
            online somewhere. With a few prudently chosen search words you
            should be able to see all the spots (and the web sites) that are cov-
            ered here.

            Solve the problem visually.
            TV is a visual medium, and it begs for visual solutions. Try to avoid
            verbal approaches. Don’t talk at customers. Tell them a story with
            pictures. Start with images. Stay with images.
              There is a saying: “The eye will remember what the ear will for-
            get.” Remember the last time you tried to tell somebody about a
            great commercial you’d seen? Did you recite the script? Or paint a
            picture?

            Can you make the picture do all the work?
            Let your TV concept be so visually powerful that a viewer would
            get it with the sound turned off. This isn’t a rule; it doesn’t always
            work. But when it does, it’s great. It means you have a very simple,
            very visual idea.
               This famous old Maxell audiotape commercial from the 1970s
            said it all with one image (Figure 5.3). A guy listening to music on a
            Maxell tape is literally blown away by the fidelity and power of the
            sound. You could have been vacuuming your living room when this
            spot came on and you still understood it.
15934_Sullivan_c05_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:17 AM     Page 121

                    In the Future, Everyone Will Be Famous for 30 Seconds         121

                      Figure 5.3 One image tells the story without words.
                      Maxell’s still using this image to sell digital products.

            Think in terms of story.
            There’s a great book I recommend to ad students. It’s not about
            advertising but about screenwriting: Robert McKee’s Story:
            Substance, Structure, Style and the Principles of Screenwriting.
            McKee makes a convincing case that the human brain is wired to
            hunger for story—that a structure of three acts, taking us from
            problem to unexpected solution, is something our brains crave.
            Story just sucks us in. Even when we know how a story’s going to
            end, we stay up later than we ought to just to watch an old movie
            play out on TV.
              Theorists suggest that story is actually a cognitive structure our
            brains use to encode information. So in addition to its drawing
            power, story has lasting power—it helps us remember things. (“Did
            you see that spot last night? The one where the . . .”)

            Find one great image and build a story around it.
            Try looking at your TV assignment as a print job. If you had to set-
            tle on a single image to convey your point, what would it be? Once
15934_Sullivan_c05_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:17 AM    Page 122

            122                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            you’ve found that image, try spinning a story into or out of it. If you
            try this, make sure you move far enough off that one image to
            develop some real story, some beginning, middle, and end. If you
            don’t, you may end up with what’s often called “a print idea on
            TV”—a spot with one moving part. The viewer can see it coming,
            and once they’ve seen it . . . feh. Print ads on TV are a mistake to the
            degree that they don’t take full advantage of the medium.

            Be simple.
            The advice about staying simple applies to TV as it does to print.
            And nowhere does it apply more than in low-budget commercials.
               If you’ve been assigned a cheapo TV spot, congratulations. It’s
            going to force you to pare away the dross and get to the essence of
            the client’s marketing problem. So valuable is this kind of thinking,
            you should start here even if your client has a large budget.
               The Martin Agency’s John Mahoney and Hal Tench did a great
            (and very simple) commercial for an agricultural pesticide using two
            hammers set on a white tabletop (Figure 5.4). One hammer appears
            to be forged out of gold; the other, iron. Next to the hammers, two

              Figure 5.4 If the creative team had five times the budget, they couldn’t
                      have improved on this simple, wonderful commercial.
15934_Sullivan_c05_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:17 AM   Page 123

                    In the Future, Everyone Will Be Famous for 30 Seconds     123

            bugs. A voice-over says, “You have your expensive insecticide.”
            (Hand comes in, picks up gold hammer, smashes bug.) “And your
            cheap insecticide.” (Hand comes in, picks up iron hammer, smashes
            bug.) “So,” concludes the voice-over, “which worm is more dead?
            Ammo. Guaranteed worm control. Cheap.”
               Even if you have a normal-size budget, start with a clean slate.
            Empty the stage in your mind; dress it with just a ladder and a chair,
            like Thornton Wilder did in Our Town. This intellectual challenge of
            working with a small budget (or any constraint) is one of the best
            mental reset buttons there is. It’s such a fruitful place to begin that
            Ernie Schenck wrote an entire book about it. Pick up a copy of The
            Houdini Solution: Put Creativity and Innovation to Work by
            Thinking Inside the Box.

            It’s okay to think big, too.
            Even if you’ve landed a TV job with a sizable budget, your final
            spot will be better if your idea is simple. When you have a simple
            idea and a good budget, all the money ends up on the screen, as
            they say in Hollywood. You can put the production dollars into
            amplifying an already cool idea instead of depending on money to
            give your idea some oomph. The ideas behind these two Cannes-
            winning commercials were, on paper, simple.
               In Wieden ⫹ Kennedy’s famous “Cog” commercial for Honda
            (Figure 5.5), it’s this: “Let’s dramatize how well a Honda is built by
            showing all the parts working together sorta like dominos.” The idea
            might have been charming on a small scale, but the spot was
            planned as a two-minute commercial using real car parts and with-
            out any special effects—it would be one single, long camera pan
            along a stylized room as parts of an Accord roll, trip, bump, and set
            each other off in Rube Goldberg fashion. Ultimately, the action
            ends in front of an assembled vehicle as a voice-over concludes,
            “Isn’t it nice when things just work?” It took five months of design
            and preproduction before they could even roll film, and then the
            real test began. Over the course of one hairy week in a Paris studio,
            the crew did 605 takes. It’s likely you can view the spot today on any
            of a hundred sites that archive incredible advertising.
               Another Cannes-winning high-production-value spot that comes
            to mind is one for Guinness Draught beer called “noitulovE”
            (Figure 5.6). People who enjoy this Irish brew know it takes a bit
            longer to draw a Guinness beer from the tap; thus, their tagline:
            “Good things come to those who wait.” AMV BBDO’s spot sug-
15934_Sullivan_c05_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08   10:17 AM   Page 124

            124                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                      Figure 5.5 When they filmed “Cog,” only six hand-built
                  pre-mass-production Accords existed. And they had to completely
                                disassemble one of them for this spot.

            gests evolution has really just been one long, long wait for a
            Guinness beer. A trio of guys at a pub drinking Guinness beer takes
            a journey backward through eons, devolving through cavemen and
            monkeys, and finally ends up in the primordial muck as three pop-
            eyed mudskippers who look like they could use a beer.

                  Figure 5.6 Guinness brand’s big-budget spot showed evolution
                          backward; hence, the name “noitulovE,” itself a
                             memorable little handle to use in the PR.
15934_Sullivan_c05_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:17 AM   Page 125

                    In the Future, Everyone Will Be Famous for 30 Seconds     125

              The spot could have been smaller in scale and still would have
            worked. But you could see the money on the screen, and the wow
            factor was part of the fun as well as the staying power. Yeah, big can
            be good. But remember, it’s the same with commercials as in
            Hollywood. If you don’t have a good story, you don’t have a good
            commercial or a good movie.

            If you can make the first two seconds of your spot visually
            unusual, do so.
            Think about it. Your viewer’s watching TV. His eyes are glued to it.
            The cop shoots the bad guy. The camera closes in. Oh, no! He shot
            his partner. Fade to black. You now have two seconds to keep the
            viewer’s eyes on the screen before he heads to the kitchen to eat
            chili out of a can over the sink.
               Competition with Funyuns and bathroom breaks isn’t the only
            reason to open strong. When you open with something that’s inher-
            ently interesting or dramatic, you create what George Lowenstein
            called a “curiosity gap.” He says we feel curiosity when there’s a gap
            between what we know and what we want to know, and describes
            curiosity as an itch. When you set up your spot with something that
            opens this gap, it creates an itch, and watching the rest of your com-
            mercial is the only way to scratch it.
               As an example, a well-known spot by Jamie Barrett and Mark
            Wenneker for Saturn automobiles (Figure 5.7) starts with a very
            curious image: a man running backward out of his garage. It’s hard
            to see that image and not wonder “What’s next?” Eventually we
            understand that the man’s just “backing out” of his garage into a
            world without cars. They illustrated Saturn’s value of “People First”
            by showing a world of human beings on the road without their cars
            wrapped around them. (The voice-over explains: “When we design
            our cars, we don’t see sheet metal. We see the people who may one
            day drive them. Introducing the redesigned L, the VUE, and the all-
            new ION. It’s different in a Saturn.”) Here on paper, the spot sounds
            almost simplistic, but it was elegantly shot, set to an understated
            piano score, and was a thing of beauty.

            Solve the last five seconds.
            There’s an old Hollywood axiom that says “Movies are all about
            their last twenty minutes.” Writer/creative director David Fowler
            reiterates that advice in The Creative Companion:
15934_Sullivan_c05_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:17 AM     Page 126

            126                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

             Figure 5.7 Open strong. You’re competing against getting a second bag
                  of Cheetos or going to the bathroom—sometimes both, sadly.

              The most important part of any television advertisement is its conclu-
              sion, the last five seconds. That’s the part that resolves, explains,
              summarizes, or excuses the preceding twenty-five seconds. If you’re
              not clear about the last five seconds, you’re not clear about anything,
              because that’s where your premise gets pounded home. Try to write
              the last five seconds first. If you can’t, you don’t need to write a spot,
              you need to develop a premise for a spot.1

            A television commercial should entertain
            throughout the entire spot.
            Avoid a long buildup to an “unexpected” conclusion, or what I call
            a “waw-waw” ending. (Remember that muted pair of trumpet notes
            on shows like Leave It to Beaver?) Once you know a commercial’s
            unexpected ending, how many times will you really enjoy watching
            it? A great spot is a joy to watch from beginning to end, over and
            over. There’s something new to look for in each frame.
               Please don’t take this to mean I’m against surprise in a TV spot—
            just gimmicky little switcheroos at the back of a spot. Those suck.
            Real surprise, the gasp you hear when you move a viewer’s whole
            mind-set from one place to another and in doing so, create insight
            and a fresh new way of seeing—well, that’s pretty cool.
15934_Sullivan_c05_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:17 AM   Page 127

                    In the Future, Everyone Will Be Famous for 30 Seconds     127

            Don’t force your TV to look like your print.
            A lot of the bigger clients insist on this, saying that identical print
            and TV executions will give them “synergy.” If your print also hap-
            pens to work as great TV, fine. But if it doesn’t, don’t let them force
            you to drag an idea kicking and screaming from one medium into
            another.
               All you should promise the client is the campaign will have one
            voice, one message, across all media—not an unfair request, not an
            unfulfillable promise. But if your TV sounds like David Letterman
            and your print reads like the Wall Street Journal, your campaign
            isn’t holding together.

            Write sparely.
            Don’t carpet your spot with wall-to-wall copy. Leave breathing
            room. Lots of it. After you’ve written your script, get out a really
            big, scary knife. Like the one in Halloween 4.
               You’ll be glad you did, come editing time. You’ll find you need
            space to let those wonderful moments on film just happen by them-
            selves, quietly, without a voice-over jabbering in your ear.
               Author Sydney Smith suggested, “In composing, as a general
            rule, run your pen through every other word you have written; you
            have no idea what vigor it will give to your style.”

            For 15-second spots, write very, very sparely.
            Ten- or fifteen-second TV spots are a different animal from a 30.
            You have no time for a slow build. With four to five seconds
            already set aside for the wrap-up and client logo, you’re looking at
            10 very skinny seconds to unpack your show, put it on, and hit the
            showers.
               So strip your 15-second TV spots down to the bones. And then
            strip again down to the marrow. Lock off the camera and keep it to
            one scene if you can. Even two cuts can make a 15 look choppy.
               I remember a Toyota 15 that was this simple. The camera is locked
            down on an empty red Toyota parked on a quiet suburban street.
            Suddenly a barking dog comes rushing down the driveway of the
            house behind it and careens into the back of the car. Type comes up
            to silently explain: “Looks Fast.” A pause. Then: “The New Celica
            Action Package.”
15934_Sullivan_c05_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:17 AM   Page 128

            128                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Avoid showing what you’re saying or saying
            what you’re showing.
            This idea, discussed in print advertising, has a counterpart here in
            broadcast, with a few twists.
               You have two tracks of information in a TV spot occurring simul-
            taneously: audio and visual. To some degree, they have to match up.
            If either track wanders too far afield of the other, viewers will not
            know which to attend to; they’ll lose interest and begin feeling
            around in the couch for change. On the other hand, you don’t want
            to have the voice-over and video so joined at the hip that viewers
            hear again what they’ve already seen on screen.
               It’s better to have one track complete the other, or play off the
            other, just as you do in print. That 1 ⫹ 1 ⫽ 3 thing works to great
            effect here in television. The words and the visuals can supply
            slightly different pieces of information, tracks that viewers can inte-
            grate in their heads.
               Sometimes you can add creative tension between what is seen
            and what is heard by giving the copy an unexpected tone, perhaps
            of irony or understatement. For instance, I remember a Reebok
            spot featuring a popular Dallas Cowboy running back crashing into
            defensive players. What you heard, though, was the player quietly
            musing about how football “allows you to meet so many people.”

                                 TV’S JUST GONNA KEEP
                                   GETTING WEIRDER.
            I hope these few pieces of advice will be enough to help frame your
            thinking as you begin working in this cool medium. Its high visibil-
            ity and public forum make it one of the most exciting media you
            can work in—the most exciting and most public part being, perhaps,
            the Super Bowl. There’s nothing quite like settling in with a group
            of friends at the big game to see your cool idea along with a billion
            other people.
               Things are going to get really interesting when Internet Protocol
            TV (IPTV) is fully rolled out and in every home. Basically, IPTV is
            television provided over the Internet. When it arrives, it’ll mean the
            convergence of all things digital in the home: computers, TV sets,
            digital recorders—pretty much all of it will be on one device and
            fed through one pipe.
15934_Sullivan_c05_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:17 AM   Page 129

                    In the Future, Everyone Will Be Famous for 30 Seconds    129

               Actually, all the technology exists now, but broadband speeds are
            going to have to go up and the price come down before IPTV really
            takes off. Once it does, though, it’ll be a new landscape for cus-
            tomers as well as advertisers. The biggest advantage to your clients
            is that they can customize a TV commercial not just to a zip code,
            not just to a neighborhood, but to a customer.
               You know how Amazon.com sometimes sends a message that
            says, “Hey, Bob, because of your last purchase, we thought these
            new titles might interest you”? Well, it’s now the same thing on TV
            but with commercials. Say Bob lives in Chicago. And your client is a
            cruise line out of Miami. Maybe they co-op with the Weather
            Channel. So when Chicago’s temp goes below freezing, Bob gets a
            commercial extolling the virtues of Caribbean sailing intercut with
            the frozen silhouette of Chicago’s skyline. The spot ends with a spe-
            cial offer for snowbirds freezing their asses off in Chi-town with a
            cruise price that includes the exact airfare out of Midway. Bob
            clicks “Select” on his remote, his TV goes from the Weather
            Channel to Travelocity.com, and he books the trip.
               Man, it’s a new world. When I was a kid, we had three channels.
            And we liked it.
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:08 AM    Page 130

                 Figure 6.1 Just because an ad has to have a coupon in it doesn’t
                    mean it has to suck. I think this is an elegant ad, perfect for
                                   budget-minded book readers.
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:08 AM   Page 131

                                            6
                  But Wait,There’s More!
                          Does direct-response TV
                               have to suck?

            THE DARK AGES PRODUCED A THING called the Iron Maiden—a cof-
            fin with spikes on the inside that slowly skewered the victim as its
            lid was closed. Yet even the Dark Ages—that period of supersti-
            tious insanity and violence—never came up with a torture as horri-
            fying as Suzanne Somers telling me about all the great benefits of
            the ThighMaster.
               The direct-response TV (DRTV) part of our industry has tradi-
            tionally produced some of the most horrible blather in the history
            of television. Richard Simmons and his Deal-A-Meal cards. The old
            lady in the First Alert spots who said, “I’ve fallen and I can’t get
            up!” And most recently, the plague of ab workout machines: the
            Ab-Ripper, the Ab-inator, the Ab-Whatever. George Orwell
            must’ve foreseen the state of modern infomercials when he referred
            to advertising as “the rattling of a stick inside a swill bucket.”
               But here’s the deal. The guy who did that ThighMaster thing?
            He’s a multimillionaire. So are Richard Simmons and Ron Popeil.
            (Popeil sold his company in 2005 for $55 million.) And all those
            commercials you hate? They sell products by the Mall-of-America
            load.
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:08 AM   Page 132

            132                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               Given this, it would seem we’ve come back around to Mr.
            Whipple and the main question we started with: To be effective, do
            DRTV spots and infomercials have to suck?
               I like selling things. I think it’s cool. But when I look at the Home
            Shopping Network and the geeky way they honk that horn when
            people call in, well, I throw up in my mouth a little bit. (Is it just
            me?) Yeah, I know they’re makin’ money hand over fist and the
            people who own it could buy and sell me a thousand times. But,
            again, it comes down to this: For me to actually work in this field of
            DRTV and infomercials, I need to be able to look my kids in the
            eyes and say, “Yeah, you should see this thing I worked on today.
            It’s pretty cool.”
               So, in spite of evidence to the contrary, I don’t believe DRTV
            spots and infomercials have to suck to be effective.
               While we’re not in the majority, there are some of us who believe
            DRTV can do the heavy lifting required of it, and do it without toss-
            ing taste, intelligence, and common decency under the treads of
            capitalism’s tanks. Yes, DRTV has some special considerations—
            rules, if you will—that help yield better results. And results are why
            your client comes to work every morning. Results are why more
            and more blue-chip clients are adding DRTV to their marketing
            mix. Results are why the big agency holding companies are buying
            up direct-response agencies left and right. But does getting results
            mean DRTV has to make us feel so urpy?
               Well, remember the two overlapping circles in Figure 3.3? Pretend
            for a minute that one circle represents all the rules the DRTV spe-
            cialists know about how to make the phone ring and the other circle
            represents Things That Don’t Suck. Isn’t it possible the two circles
            could sometimes overlap?
               Perhaps the best way to begin is by exorcising some of the horri-
            ble things associated with this industry.

                     SPRAY-PAINT TOUPEES AND PSYCHIC FRIENDS.
            The entire DRTV industry was created by entrepreneurs solely for
            the purpose of selling widgets on TV. None of these gadgets had a
            brand—or, at least, not a brand with a purpose beyond making
            money. Things like the Salad Shooter and the ever-creepy GLH
            (bald-spot spray paint) were created solely to be promoted on TV.
            Many of these items weren’t even manufactured until after the
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp       1/2/08     10:08 AM      Page 133

                                         But Wait, There’s More!                              133

            infomercials ran and the marketers had the customers lined up.
            There was simply no brand to protect, build, or polish; it was all
            about getting people to call now and cough up $19.95 to get an
            Inside-The-Shell Scrambler. Since the marketers weren’t looking
            for any long-term relationship, they had no scruples about trying
            every carnival trick in the book. (“Now how much would you
            pay?”) According to an industry magazine,* the top 25 products
            being sold via DRTV this very month include three male enhance-
            ment creams, four weight-loss supplements, two power wheelchairs,
            and Urine Gone, an odor elimination spray. Not exactly an august
            lineup of blue-chip clients. God, next they’ll be selling lawyers.
            (They what? They do already? Never mind.)
               Because of this pedigree, DRTV has remained advertising’s
            mutant stepchild, kept in a box under the basement stairs. Creative
            people still walk across the street to avoid saying hello. I don’t
            blame them. I ordered copies of the top 20 all-time moneymakers in
            DRTV, and after some study I can testify that it looks as bad up
            close as it did from across the street. Most of these infomercials
            plugged their made-for-TV product into a prefabricated format: the
            fake talk show format, the fake news show, and fake rallies (where
            hundreds of supposed brand advocates filled the studio just to
            cheer on a can of spray-paint hair). I noted an almost complete
            absence of production values. Every actor was horrible, reading
            from a transparent sales script, saying things no human being would
            say. Then there’s the wall-to-wall voice-over of the Constantly
            Talking Man, as well as the nonstop graphics. The overall feeling
            one gets watching these shows is of being cornered by a salesman in
            an elevator at a crack convention. They are exhausting. I also note
            the music, most of which has the cheap synthesized sound that—a
            friend of a friend tells me—sounds like porn. And finally, DRTV is
            frequently used to sell products that people are too embarrassed to
            buy from an actual human being: male enhancement creams, spray-
            paint hair-in-a-can, psychic friends.
               Almost every spot I reviewed was dreadful. So it’s not surprising
            that mainstream creatives and good directors avoid DRTV. Its rep-
            utation is deserved. The whole category should be torched and
            rebuilt. But on our way out, let’s grab a few of the good things that
            seem to work, and then set a lighter to the rest.

            *Electronic Retailer magazine, April 2007, page 26, retail rankings for February 2007 of
            Short-Form Products Sold on TV.
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:08 AM    Page 134

            134                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                     IF IMAGE = EMOTION,THEN DRTV = REASON.
            Recently, marketers have begun to use DRTV to sell real main-
            stream products such as computers and brokerage services; it’s no
            longer all about kitchen widgets.
               Part of the reason for this surge is that stations charge a lot less to
            air DRTV. (There are a couple of reasons for this, but suffice it to
            say that it costs clients a lot less.)
               The main reason marketers like DRTV isn’t cost anyway, but
            accountability. Clients can track exactly what they’re getting for
            their money. If brand TV is a shotgun, DRTV is a sniper. My friend
            Richard Apel is a DRTV expert and explained it to me this way:
            “To use a bad analogy, God in his infinite beneficence lets the sun
            shine on the just and the unjust alike, right? Which is kinda like
            brand advertising. But in DRTV, we’re not as benevolent. We want
            the sun to shine only on the just—you know, those exact people
            most likely to respond to our spot. The unjust?” he concluded with a
            smile, “They can go to hell.”
               The ability to pinpoint a client’s message to just the right audi-
            ence and then to track that data in nearly real time has incredible
            marketing power. Today, customer data is easier, cheaper, and faster
            than ever to obtain and analyze. My buddy Richard says, “Once
            clients have had the taste of raw, segmented or analyzed response
            data, I swear, it becomes like an addiction.”
               Because of this power, DRTV has started to move from late-
            night into the more respectable hours of daytime and prime-time
            TV. Along the way, the discipline has attracted lots of blue-chip
            companies like Apple and Nokia. These are companies that want a
            revenue-building vehicle like DRTV in their portfolio but aren’t
            willing to cheapen the brand just to make a sale. These brands con-
            tinue their regular image advertising, which helps give customers a
            certain feeling about their brand, and then use DRTV to make
            them act on those feelings. Brand provides the air cover; the troops
            of retail and direct response do the rest.
               DRTV takes several forms. Any ad with a consumer response
            that can be specifically tracked is technically DRTV, but for our
            purposes we’re talking about long form and short form. Long form
            is any commercial longer than two minutes (the infamous infomer-
            cial), and the short form, anything two minutes or under.
               My friend Jim Warren is a specialist in direct-response TV and he
            sees DRTV existing along a spectrum (Figure 6.2). On one side
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08   10:08 AM     Page 135

                                     But Wait, There’s More!                         135

              Figure 6.2 On the left, pure image advertising. In the middle, a little of
                           both. And on the right, pure transaction.

            there’s pure brand advertising; on the other is hard-core DRTV.
            But, he continues,

              ROI and accountability pressures are requiring agencies to move
              away from both extremes and instead find sweet spots along the spec-
              trum that satisfy both of the objectives most important to their
              clients: 1) building a brand that people love, and 2) selling the prod-
              ucts to those people. In other words, all advertisements should have
              at least some of both components, and there’s only limited reason for
              ads on the extreme ends of the brand-demand spectrum.1

               Here’s another way to think of the brand-to-direct spectrum. (It’s
            creepy, but bear with me.) If image advertising is kinda like a first
            date, DRTV is the second.
               On a second date, you’re done trying to get someone’s attention,
            right? You have it, obviously. They seem to like you and now they
            just wanna know more about you. Your relationship with the cus-
            tomer has moved from catching their eye from across the room to
            having a nice, long conversation. It’s moved from a chemistry check
            to looking for rational reasons to buy. (And get married.)
               Okay, enough with the creepy metaphor. The point is, DRTV is
            all about providing information, and lots of it. This is your opportu-
            nity to remove any objection that could keep a customer from buy-
            ing your product. It means answering all the questions customers
            might ask if they were standing in front of you. “The more you tell,
            the more you sell,” says my friend Jim, and if he tells me one more
            time, I’m gonna barf.
               But the guy’s right. Let’s go back to that brand-demand spectrum
            again. On the left side, it’s pure brand image stuff. Cool, we’ve cov-
            ered that in Chapter 5. On the right is DRTV, purely expository and
            full of facts. (And way over on the right is the hard-sell “Call right
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:08 AM   Page 136

            136                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            now!” kind of spot—the kind this book will not touch, even with
            Ronco’s new Ten-Foot Pole®. (“The new Ten-Foot Pole® lets you
            touch all kinds of skeevy stuff with no muss, no fuss!!”)
               But in between those two extremes, there’s a variety of hybrids
            that allow an advertiser to dial up or down the amount of informa-
            tion and the call to action.
               With creatives on the general advertising side, the most popular
            is the lead generation format, which is usually in the shape of a
            “25/5.” It’s more on the brand side of the spectrum because here
            you have 25 seconds of what amounts to brand image advertising
            followed up with a 5-second call to action. The brilliant GEICO
            campaign is a perfect example. In the first 25 seconds, GEICO says
            that it’s so easy to lower the cost of your car insurance “even a cave-
            man could do it.” (At which point we see modern, well-dressed
            Neanderthals taking offense at the insult.) The spots all end with a
            simple call to action: With the phone number up on the screen, the
            voice-over says, “Fifteen minutes could save you 15 percent on your
            car insurance.”
               Lead generation spots like this don’t need to answer all of a cus-
            tomer’s questions, only enough to get them to call. And in GEICO’s
            case, the calls came in. According to Mike Hughes at The Martin
            Agency, the long-running caveman series is one of GEICO’s biggest
            successes.
               Now, as we push farther to the right on the spectrum, we dial up
            the amount of information. Typically, as the amount of information
            goes up, you move from buying 30-second spots to 60s, and even
            two-minute spots. It’s here where the challenge lies. The more you
            tell may well mean the more you sell, but it could also mean the
            more you suck—if you don’t find a graceful and intelligent way of
            telling your story.

                              SHORT- AND LONG-FORM DRTV.
            Short-form DRTV works best for products that sell themselves
            quickly because they can be explained in under a minute or two.
            GEICO’s lead generation is a good example of a quick get. But let’s
            say you have a bit more of a story to tell.
              Well, here’s where DRTV differs somewhat from brand image
            work. You’ve got a lot of information to impart. You need to pre-
            sent it in a way that makes sense and doesn’t bore people. You need
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:08 AM    Page 137

                                     But Wait, There’s More!                          137

            a structure. In a great article on DRTV, OgilvyOne’s Bruce Lee put
            it this way:

              Structure comes down to how you want to organize your information,
              and since most DRTV spots carry a lot of information (the better to
              convince you to act), the easier you can present that information, the
              easier the viewer can absorb it. And I’ve never met an organizing
              method more viewer-friendly than linear storytelling.2

               To make his point, Lee sites a 60-second DRTV commercial, one
            I like every bit as much as any brand image commercial. It tells a
            marvelous story, has two great characters, and is fun to watch from
            beginning to end.
               Here’s the entire script of the Ameritrade DRTV commercial:

                 (We open on a staid office setting, where we see a goofy-lookin’
                 twentysomething lying on the copier, photocopying his face. A
                 much older man brusquely motions the kid into his office.)

                 MR. P.: Stuart, can I see you in my office, please?

                 OLDER WOMAN STANDING NEARBY: That kid is sick. Very sick.

                 MR. P.: Stuart, get in here.

                 STUART: Sure thing, Mr. P.

                 (Stuart enters, closes door. The smile on Mr. P’s face tells us
                 quickly that Stuart’s not in trouble. Something else is going on.)

                 MR. P.: Stuart, I just opened my Ameritrade account.

                 STUART: (Conspiratorially.) Let’s light this candle. Let’s go to
                 Ameritrade-dot-com. It’s easier than fallin’ in love. What do
                 you feel like buying today, Mr. P?

                 MR. P.: Kmart.

                 (Phone number comes up and stays up in lower left-hand
                 corner.)

                 STUART: So research it. All this stuff is provided for you free of
                 charge.

                 (As Mr. P. types, the camera shows us the easy-to-navigate web
                 page.)
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp      1/2/08    10:08 AM     Page 138

            138                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                  MR. P.: No charge?

                  STUART: Yeah, that’s synonymous with free.

                  MR. P.: Looks like a good stock.

                  STUART: Let’s buy!

                  MR. P.: Let’s buy a hundred shares.

                  STUART: All right, click it in there! How about five hundred?

                  MR. P.: One hundred, Stuart.

                  (Stuart imitates the sound of a chicken squawking.)

                  STUART: You feel the excitement? You’re about to buy a stock
                  online.

                  (Stuart writhes in a victory dance while Mr. P. makes his buy.)

                  MR. P.: Fabulous! I’m thrilled! What did it cost me?

                  STUART: Eight dollars, my man.

                  MR. P.: Eight? My broker charges me two hundred dollars.

                  STUART: You’re riding the wave of the future, my man. I’ve got
                  to get a soda, Mr. P. Hey, I’m having a party on Saturday night.
                  (He hands Mr. P. an invitation.) If you really want to go . . .

                  MR. P.: I’m gonna try to get there.

                  STUART: Happy trading.

                  (Mr. P. sees Stuart to his office door.)

                  MR. P.: Thank you.

                  STUART: Rock on.

                  MR. P.: All right, Stuart.

                  (Graphics with phone number, URL, and logo.)

                  ANNOUNCER VOICE-OVER: Call toll-free, 800–573–9914, or visit
                  Ameritrade-dot-com. Ameritrade. The way to trade. Period.

              Wow. In that 60 seconds I learned Ameritrade is an online bro-
            kerage where I can do it myself. I learned it costs $8, or $192 less
            than what a broker charges. I learned that I can research a buy
            before I make it and that the information is free. I learned that it’s
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:08 AM   Page 139

                                   But Wait, There’s More!                     139

            fast and that the site is easy to navigate. I learned this is not only a
            new product but a whole new category. I learned where to go to get
            this cool new thing. And not for one second was I bored.
               This script observes the one ironclad rule for any form of
            advertising—do something interesting—but it also observes several
            important DRTV guidelines.

            Have a crystal clear call to action.
            Along with imparting a lot of information, the other big difference
            about DRTV is the call to action (the CTA). DRTV isn’t embar-
            rassed about asking for the sale. The advertiser has to move a
            viewer from “Hey, that’s pretty cool” to “I have to get that right
            now.” Talk about pressure to perform. Just slapping a phone num-
            ber on the back of a brand image spot probably won’t do it. The
            CTA is a big deal, and in DRTV it’s generally the first thing you
            create.
               In the very first part of the CTA it’s a good idea to quickly revisit
            all the main highlights of your product, probably in both voice-over
            and a super. (But please don’t blink or spin the words at me, okay?)
            It’s also a good idea to have your voice-over say the phone number,
            URL, or mailing address a couple of times. Number and address
            supers should stay up about twice the time it takes to actually read
            them.
               Don’t shortchange the time on any of this. This isn’t brand image
            TV. If you cut the CTA too short, it’ll mean fewer calls and that
            means a higher cost per response or cost per sale, which are the
            main metrics used to measure the effectiveness of DRTV. On the
            other hand, if you try to pack too much stuff in your CTA, it’ll
            sound rushed and your credibility will suffer. Instead, try to include
            all the information you can while maintaining an unhurried, assured
            voice.

            Find a structure that allows you to impart a lot of
            information in an entertaining way.
            In the case of Ameritrade, the story is two unlikely characters—the
            older boss and the office knucklehead—buying stocks online. That’s
            it. The entire structure is a conversation—the vessel into which all
            the other information is poured.
                But other structures can work equally well, including some of the
            ones that work in brand image TV; the basic problem-solution
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:08 AM    Page 140

            140                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            architecture, for example. All I’m asking here is please don’t use the
            structures so common in this industry now: the fake game show, the
            fake call-in show, the fake news show, the fake pep rally. Yes, folks, I
            know we’re in advertising. But as Bill Bernbach showed us, we can
            sell things and have our dignity, too.

            Logically map out the main reasons your product
            or service rocks.
            If you organize your information in a logical flow and pace it well,
            you’ll be surprised how many benefits you can impart in a one- or
            two-minute format. Yes, this is different from the advice every-
            where else in this book (say one thing, stay focused, etc.). But this is
            different—it’s DRTV. It’s advertising to people who are nearing the
            end of the purchase process and are about to buy. They might be at
            home watching TV, but they may as well be in the dealer showroom
            kickin’ tires. Does this give us license to wear a plaid coat and bark
            at them? No, not if we want them to like our brand. But we can
            point out to them some cool features they probably didn’t know
            about. We can give them that one last push.
               Bruce Lee put it this way:

              While information is critical to breaking down a prospect’s barriers
              and getting him to act, you cannot tell everything. A DRTV commer-
              cial is not a brochure. It is a movie. It has to move. So you must be
              selective and pick your . . . strongest points. You are trying to per-
              suade and persuasion takes time. So take your time. Unfold your sell-
              ing proposition lovingly. But don’t forget to hurry.3

            Be passionate.
            This advice isn’t about pushing the talk button in the recording stu-
            dio and telling your voice-over to “be passionate.” It’s about how
            you pace the entire spot. Passion can come through in your cut.
               I like how Lee says, “Unfold your selling proposition lovingly.”
            DRTV is not afraid to brag on its products a bit. Be front and center
            with what’s cool about your product. Look at the Ameritrade TV
            spot. They’re using the product and talking about it for almost the
            entire length of the spot. Remember, you’re not asking someone to
            think about buying something. You’re not asking them to form an
            opinion. You’re asking them to buy it right now. That means tooting
            your own horn a bit. Just don’t lean on the horn, okay? Most of the
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:08 AM    Page 141

                                    But Wait, There’s More!                      141

            DRTV literature out there will tell you to not only lean on the horn,
            but spot weld the horn in an on position and park it on top of the
            customer’s head. Almost every author on the subject has a chapter
            on how important it is to use “magic” words like free and new and
            announcing and revolutionary. I’m not an expert, but I have two
            thoughts here. The first is that you can yell at customers only so long
            before they start to hate you. We’re trying to sell our brand’s prod-
            ucts here without throwing the brand under the bus. And second, my
            guess is that for many of these marketers of male enhancement
            creams and psychic friends, magic words are all they have—they
            don’t have a bona fide product because it’s all tommyrot and flim-
            flam. (I love sayin’ “tommyrot” and “flimflam.”) They have no steak
            to sell, only sizzle. (“Are you tired of steak?!? ANNOUNCING
            REVOLUTIONARY NEW Sizzle!”)
               That said, let’s not throw out the baby with the bathwater, either.
            If you have a free offer, great, say so. Unfold your selling proposi-
            tion passionately. If you can say it twice, do so. It will increase sales.
            But do you have to scream it? Probably not.

            Be clear.
            Nowhere in advertising is it more important to make perfect sense
            than in DRTV. There’s no room for ambiguity here. Yes, you need to
            be interesting, but it cannot be at the expense of being crystal clear
            about what your product or service does. You need to point out as
            many benefits as is prudent while you move the viewer along a logic
            trail from Reason A to Reason B and C and D, and then end on
            “Call this number.” Remember, we’re working the rational side of
            the room now, removing barriers to purchase. We’re giving people
            logical support for what is an emotional decision.

            Say the product’s name.
            I read somewhere that you’re supposed to say the product’s name
            three times every minute. I assume they suggest this so that people
            tuning in late will know what’s going on. While there’s no evidence
            that constantly repeating a client’s name will increase sales, DRTV
            isn’t the place to be coy.

            Get a good director, fer cry-eye.
            Over the years, the DRTV category has developed its own list of
            go-to directors and production houses. Meanwhile, all the good
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:08 AM   Page 142

            142                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            directors have stayed away from DRTV because of its reputation
            for male enhancement creams and psychic friends. The DRTV
            marketers didn’t seem to care, either, given the higher costs
            charged by the fraternity of mainstream directors and production
            houses. But now that DRTV is coming in from the cold and we
            care as much about the brand as about the sale, it’s time to get a
            decent director.

                        LONG-FORM DRTV: “NOW THAT’S BASS!”
            Long-form TV has been so bad for so long that the infomercial has
            become one of the most parodied communication forms on the
            planet. Saturday Night Live’s “Bass-O-Matic” fish blender was a
            memorable skewering. More recently, Crispin Porter ⫹ Bogusky
            parodied the long form by manufacturing and selling silly made-for-
            TV accessories for the MINI Cooper. Interestingly, they made the
            MINI infomercials so delightfully dreadful, there was no loss of
            points to the brand. Viewers knew.
              Okay, so what if you have to create an infomercial and you can’t
            suck, even on purpose? Here are a few things I’ve learned from
            some of the smart DRTV folks I’ve come to know.

            Before you get to the concept, write the CTA.
            Again, writing the CTA comes first. It’s the most important part
            of the infomercial. All the same CTA advice from short form
            applies here. How long it is depends on the product or service,
            but boiling your offer down is a good exercise in clarity. You’ll be
            forced to think through the most logical and compelling way to
            express it.

            Have a unique TV offer in your CTA.
            When what’s being sold on TV is also available in stores, DRTV
            specialists know that fewer phone orders will come in. (Customers
            say, “Feh! We’ll buy it at the store.”) Therefore, it pays to make your
            TV offer unique. It builds in urgency and makes the proposition of
            calling more logical. Anything else you can do to add to the unique-
            ness of the offer and its urgency, do so. If it’s a limited-time offer,
            say so. Anything that overcomes couch inertia is good.
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:08 AM   Page 143

                                   But Wait, There’s More!                     143

            Add an incentive on top of the offer.
            First you lay out the basic offer. Then when you get to the CTA, you
            sweeten the deal with an incentive of some kind. (Yes, this is the
            genesis of that tired old line: “But wait! There’s more.”) Yet it’s here
            where the real science of DRTV comes in. Experienced direct-
            response marketers have found that by rotating different incentives
            and measuring the difference in sales they can, as James Twitchell
            says, “readjust the pitch until they find the point of harmonic con-
            vergence.” Since 75 to 95 percent of all phone calls are made within
            30 minutes of broadcast, the marketer can tell exactly which offers
            and incentives are working best; then they readjust. They fiddle
            with the media buy, the offer, the incentive, the edit, always compar-
            ing the new results against a control.

            Bring in the phone number at just the right time.
            If you put your client’s phone number up on screen in the first two
            seconds and then leave it up till the end, you may end up actually
            losing your client money instead of making them money. Think it
            through. If you put up the phone number before you’ve fully
            explained what it is that you’re selling, you’re likely to get thou-
            sands of phone calls from people who ultimately reject the offer
            because they haven’t heard the whole offer or they don’t know the
            details. Let the show be its own self-selecting mechanism. Let your
            story play out. Putting up an 800 number after the offer is spelled
            out will net a higher rate of sales even though the number of calls
            will be lower. (Plus you won’t tie up your client’s call center with
            people who happen to have a cool new cell phone, but all their
            friends are asleep.)

            You’ve got 30 minutes of time. Find a big stage to play on.
            The infomercial writer’s primary goal is to motivate an immediate
            response. The secondary goal, and nearly as important, is to keep
            viewers watching as long as possible.
               Once you’ve boiled down your offer in your call to action, it’s
            time to draw a concept out of it. And now, for a little while, you can
            think the same way you do when you concept for brand print or TV.
            You’re searching for the story and the emotion in the product. You
            might find it in the product or it may come out of what you know
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:08 AM   Page 144

            144                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                  Figure 6.3 Jean Van de Velde walks through the March cold of
                     Scotland’s Carnoustie golf course in Fenske’s fascinating
                           long-form spot for Never Compromise putters.

            about the customer. You may find it in problem-solution architec-
            ture or in simple storytelling. And long form is a great place to tell a
            story. Remember Ken Burns’s Civil War—just a voice-over and
            black-and-white photographs, yet it was riveting.
              In the 30-second brand image world, we try to reward our viewers
            for staying with us by entertaining them. DRTV is no different. Long
            form can reward viewers with interesting content above and beyond
            the sell copy. As an example, I refer to a long-form show done by
            Mark Fenske for a brand of golf club, a putter called Never
            Compromise (Figure 6.3). The show had an interesting story at its
            core: A famous golfer named Jean Van de Velde used a putter to play
            the entire course at a famous Scottish golf course, a course where
            he’d failed the previous summer in a world-cup sort of game. I’m not
            even a golfer and it was fascinating. They’d cut between scenes of the
            golf pro whacking long fairway shots with a putter, and then cut to
            detailed product information segments where the VO explained the
            special way the putter was made. Viewers who stayed with it got to
            watch a famous golf pro talk about a difficult game he played on a
            famous course in Scotland, all while playing 18 holes with a putter.

            Build your idea out in segments.
            The average unit of TV time that American couch potatoes eat in
            one sitting is 8 to 10 minutes. With network programming, that’s
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:08 AM   Page 145

                                   But Wait, There’s More!                    145

            what they’re used to anyway—8 to 10 minutes of sitcom, then a pod
            of commercials. So it may make sense to build your infomercial the
            same way, perhaps in three self-contained segments.

              8 to 10 minutes of selling
              Call to Action #1
              8 to 10 minutes of selling
              Call to Action #2
              Final 8- to 10-minute segment
              Final Call to Action #3

               Network viewing habits aren’t the only reason this format seems
            to work. Marketers have found that half of an infomercial’s viewers
            watch for 20 minutes or more and the other half watch for 20 min-
            utes or less. By completing a selling cycle in 10 minutes, you’re
            ensuring that most people who watch will have an opportunity to
            place an order.

            Do not suck.
            What? We covered it? Never mind.

            Move back and forth between rational and emotional.
            Don’t stay too long in either place. After you’ve rolled out two or
            three rational benefits, swing over to the emotional side and remind
            the viewer of the higher emotional state the product appeals to. Is it
            joy or security? Safety or vanity? Whatever that higher-level emo-
            tion is, connect to it; connect what you’re selling to that stuff which
            really drives us as people. Then go back to laying out rational sup-
            port for buying now. You’ll find that going back and forth recharges
            each side.

            Testimonials can work.
            When done correctly, seeing and hearing a real person talk about a
            product or service can be compelling. Doing it correctly means you
            have to interview hundreds of customers to find those few, that
            handful of people who are both comfortable on camera and come
            across as real people. There’s nothing like a true believer to extol
            the virtues of a brand.
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:08 AM   Page 146

            146                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               Currently, most infomercials shoot fakey testimonials in fake
            sets that feel like the fake lobby of a fake hotel. Shooting on site
            seems more credible. The U.S. Navy’s recruiting DRTV did this
            particularly well, showing real people talking about their service
            on the aircraft carriers, submarines, and other really cool locations.
            Bose speakers also went on location for their show, and instead of
            testimonials, they used third-party experts. To tout the value of
            their sound quality for home entertainment systems, they did long
            interviews with sound engineers in Hollywood, audio experts who
            talked at length about how much work they put into creating
            sound effects for movies. It was interesting content and, to audio-
            philes, relevant.

                        CAN WE TAKE THE EXCLAMATION POINT
                             OUT OF DIRECT RESPONSE?
            I’m not an expert in DRTV. Far from it. In fact, I’m so far from
            being an expert that you’d have to use some of your airline miles to
            get from DRTV expertise to my house. Also, I don’t have the sales
            figures on the DRTV ideas I’ve included in this chapter. For all I
            know, they had miserable cost-per-sale figures.
               Still, I stand by what I said.
               I don’t think DRTV has to suck in order to sell.
               My friend Jim Warren is an expert and he thinks only 1 in a 100
            infomercials or DRTV spots breaks even. Given those numbers,
            it seems fair to posit that many of the tried-and-true ham-fisted
            formulas espoused by traditional DRTV marketers may simply
            not be valid. And that DRTV may ultimately be subject to some
            of the same things that make or break brand image TV. Perhaps
            simply being interesting and doing something really cool is the
            answer.
               If you decide the direct-response side is for you, good. DRTV is a
            growing field. And even if you’re on the brand advertising side of
            the business, it’s likely that fortune may bring you a client who
            doesn’t have a direct agency and needs a commercial that has to
            make the phone ring. If so, good for you, too. Make something cool
            happen.
               My friends in Canada, Nancy Vonk and Janet Westin, seem to feel
            the same way. In Pick Me, they wrote:
15934_Sullivan_c06_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:08 AM    Page 147

                                   But Wait, There’s More!                       147

              At the top direct marketing agencies, many of the writers are
              refugees from general agencies. And the work they do is clever, idea-
              driven, surprising, exciting, and every bit as good as the work they
              did in their previous agencies. The lines are blurring everywhere.
              Today’s best strategy may be to learn to write for a broader number
              of media channels.4
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 148

             Figure 7.1 Everybody fights to get on a TV account. Everybody wants to
                       do the color magazine spreads. And then there’s radio.
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:09 AM    Page 149

                                               7
                          Radio Is Hell.
                        But It’s a Dry Heat.
                            Some advice on working
                              in a tough medium

            IF YOU HAVE A CHILD AGE FIVE OR UNDER, you already understand
            the basic problem that the radio writer faces.
               “Put that down. No, do not draw on the dog. Do not draw on the
            dog! Didn’t you hear me? I said do not stick that crayon in the dog’s . . .
            NO! Put that down.”
               Both the parent and the radio writer are talking to someone who
            is not listening.
               In the end, parents have a slight edge. They can send their chil-
            dren to their room, but the poor radio writer is left to figure out a
            way to get customers to listen.
               If you think about it, the whole radio medium is used differently
            than print or TV. In print, you have readers actively holding the
            magazine or newspaper up to their face; they’re engaged, as is the
            TV watcher or the Web surfer. But radio is typically on in the back-
            ground while people are busy doing other things. It’s just sort of
            there. People tune in to and out of it depending on how interesting
            the material being broadcast is.
               And so we’re back to our old problem. We must be interesting.
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:09 AM    Page 150

            150                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            First rule: Do not suck.
            It is one of the great mysteries of advertising. Most radio is . . . well,
            it’s not very good.
               Over the years, I’ve judged many awards shows. In every show I
            can remember, the judges loved poring over the print. Looking at
            the TV was fun. But when the time came to sit down and listen to
            several hours of radio commercials, the room thinned out. Nobody
            wanted to judge it because most of it sucked. It wasn’t interesting.
               Senior writers at agencies often turn radio jobs over to the
            juniors. Great. Here’s your chance. Knock it out of the park. It pays
            to learn to write radio; not many people know how. Ed McCabe
            once advised young writers, “Quick, do something good on radio
            before someone catches on and makes it as difficult as it is every-
            where else.”

                                WRITING THE COMMERCIAL.
            Radio is visual.
            It’s a tired old cliché, but there’s truth in it. Radio has been called
            “theater of the mind.” The good commercials out there capitalize
            on this perception. In radio you can do things you can’t in any other
            medium.
               You can make listeners see the impossible image of a cactus man
            in a werewolf mask pour through the keyhole and eat your cat.
            (Actually, I did see this once in college, but I . . . never mind.)
               The point is, in radio the canvas is large, stretching off in every
            direction. Radio lets you do impossible things—things way too
            expensive to make into TV commercials. “Hey! Let’s have the entire
            Third U.S. Armored Division go crashing through the mall to get to
            our client’s brunch.” In radio, you can.
               Lewis Carroll wrote, “Sometimes I’ve believed as many as six
            impossible things before breakfast.” So should you.

            Cover the wall with scripts.
            When you’re working in radio, come up with a lot of ideas, just like
            you do when you write for print. You don’t have to write the whole
            script; for now, just scribble down the general concept on a Post-it
            Note.
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 151

                              Radio Is Hell. But It’s a Dry Heat.             151

            Come up with radio ideas you can describe in a sentence.
            With a stirring musical score, Bud Light raises its glass and extols
            the virtues of unsung American heroes: “Here’s to you, Mr. Giant
            Foam Finger Maker.” (It closes with: “So crack open an ice-cold
            Bud Light and know we speak for sports fans everywhere when we
            say . . . you’re number one.”)
               Hollywood Video stores open their commercials with this simple
            explanation: “Hollywood Video presents Sixty Second Theatre,
            where we try (unsuccessfully) to pack all the drama and suspense of
            a two-hour Hollywood production into 60 seconds.”
               These two concepts can be summed up in a sentence. They’re
            funny just as sentences. Writing them out to a 60 makes them even
            funnier. (You can read the full scripts in Communication Arts #41.)

            Figure out the right tone for your commercial.
            I can assure you that humor is the first fork in the road taken by
            every copywriter in the nation on every radio job they get. I don’t
            blame them. It’s fun to laugh, and radio seems to beg for it.
               But do the math. According to the American Association of
            Advertising Agencies, there are 12,489 U.S. agencies as of this writ-
            ing. Even if they’re all producing just one radio spot a week, by the
            end of the year you’re looking at nearly three-quarters of a million
            commercials all vying to be the funniest. I don’t like the odds.
               So before you rush to the keyboard to start being funny, first fig-
            ure out what you want your listeners’ response to be. What emotion
            do you want them to feel after hearing your spot? This is a decision
            you should make early in the process, and it should be based partly
            on your product, partly on what the competition is doing, and partly
            on what you know about the customer. Once you get a feeling for
            the general tone your finished commercials should have, avenues
            will open up to you.
               I can hear some of you saying, “Oh come on! This isn’t
            Shakespeare. I’ve got a car client and they need a spot for their
            spring sale. It’s gonna be humor!” I agree. Humor sounds perfect for
            that. All I’m saying is, think it through. There may be approaches
            other than humor that are not only more effective but cooler as well.
               Here’s an example. It’s a very straightforward, very sober-minded
            radio spot for a bank, written by my friends Phil Hanft and Pat
            Burnham when they were at Fallon McElligott. I doubt this spot (or
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08    10:09 AM    Page 152

            152                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            any of the following commercials) will come off as well on paper as
            they do on the radio. Broadcast advertising rarely makes the trans-
            lation to print very gracefully. On this page you can’t hear the nos-
            talgic instrumental rendition of “Stand By Me” playing quietly
            underneath this 90-second script. And you can’t hear the simplicity
            and honesty in the actor’s voice.

                  MAN: I guess you could say I’m kinda slow to do the big things
                  in life. I mean, there’s some stuff I think we’d all agree you just
                  shouldn’t rush into. Like buying a house. Took me a long time
                  to do that. Some might say too long. Now when I tell friends
                  who are younger about the benefits of buying a house, I can see
                  that familiar doubt. That look behind the eyes that says “Yeah,
                  I hear you and yeah I know you’re right and that’s true and I
                  agree, but you know I can’t tell you this because I know you
                  won’t understand, but it’s a big deal and I’m just not sure it’s
                  going to go the same way for me as it did for you because I
                  haven’t done it.” I guess somebody could say that’s fear, but I
                  don’t think so. That’s fear, like, like jumping off a building is
                  courage. Forget that. All I can say now is what everybody said
                  to me back then. It’s the best thing to do. I did it. You should do
                  it. ’Cept I would also add . . . I know how you feel right now.
                  And it’s okay.

                  ANNOUNCER VOICE-OVER: A reminder from First Tennessee
                  that whatever stage of life you’re in, it’s far less difficult when
                  you have money in the bank. First Tennessee. Member FDIC.

               Maybe it’s one of those you-had-be-there things, but this radio
            spot stands out in my mind as one of the best I’ve ever heard. Partly
            because of its incredible production values. And partly because it
            isn’t another Yuk-Fest, Laff-A-Minit radio script cranked out by a
            frustrated stand-up comedian doing time in an ad agency until his
            agent calls. It was real.

            Two more reasons not to be funny.
            Hey, what if you aren’t funny? It’s possible to be a really good
            writer and still not be particularly adept at comedic dialogue. Hey,
            I’m just sayin’. Here’s another reason. What if your product or ser-
            vice doesn’t call for a funny treatment?
               Don’t get me wrong. I am not against comedy. But I am against
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08   10:09 AM     Page 153

                                Radio Is Hell. But It’s a Dry Heat.                 153

            assuming all radio spots should be funny. They don’t. They need to
            be interesting.

            Okay. Okay. If you are gonna be funny, at least avoid these
            comedic clichés.
            My friend Clay Hudson is a terrific writer and particularly good at
            radio. He came back from judging the radio for the One Show and
            wrote me this e-mail: “Everything I heard was pretty good. But as I
            listened to all of it what kept going through my head was, ‘Heard it,
            heard it, heard it.’ There were so many tired, overused formats in
            radio I found myself waiting for something really different.”
               Clay concluded his e-mail with a list of tired clichés to avoid,
            which I pass on to you, word for word.
              Anything that sounds like Don Pardo
              Spots that start with,“I’m here at . . .”
              Just about anything that starts with “(Client name) presents . . .”
              Fake game shows
              Fake call-in shows
              Fake newscasts
              Bleeping out the dirty words to show how edgy you are
              Using the NFL Films voice-over guy
              Way over-the-top, abrasive, cartoon voices
              Answering machine messages
              Spots that start off all warm and fuzzy and then turn out to be for
                something—gasp!—totally edgy!!!
              Spots where there’s no idea but they rip off Dennis Miller’s style
                and throw in 15-word hyphenated phrases full of equestrian-
                jock-itch-monkey-pimples to show us they can write weird crap
                even if they don’t have an idea
              Voices that age or get younger during the spot
              Soap opera parodies (organ music and bad actors playing bad
                actors)
              Morphing several voices together during the spot
              Jingle parodies
              Neanderthal spots that border on misogyny because they’re for
                “guys”
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08    10:09 AM    Page 154

            154                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

              Movie ad parodies (“In a world where . . .”)
              And did I mention parodies?

            Funny isn’t enough. You must have an idea.
            Should you do something humorous, don’t mistake a good joke for
            a good idea. Funny is fine. But set out to be interesting first. You
            must have an idea.
               Here’s an example of an interesting premise, written by my
            friend, the late Craig Weise.

                  ANNOUNCER: Recently, Jim Paul of Valley Olds-Pontiac-GMC
                  was driving to work when . . . (MAN: “Gee, look at that.”) . . . he
                  noticed a large inflatable gorilla floating above another dealer-
                  ship. He’d noticed several of these inflatable devices floating
                  above car dealerships lately and he asked himself some ques-
                  tions. Did anybody ever go into that dealership and say, “Great
                  gorilla. Makes me feel like buying a car.” Why don’t other busi-
                  nesses use gorillas? Would people be more likely to buy, say, a
                  new home with a gorilla tethered to the chimney? “Three bed-
                  rooms, two-and-a-half baths, sun porch . . . gorilla.” Would peo-
                  ple have more confidence in the doctors if a medical clinic
                  featured a gorilla on the roof? Without car dealers, would there
                  even be an inflatable gorilla business? Right then, Jim Paul
                  made an important, courageous decision on behalf of his fine
                  dealership. (MAN: “I don’t think I’ll get a gorilla.”) Just 8 miles
                  south of the Met Center on Cedar Avenue, Jim Paul’s Valley
                  Olds-Pontiac-GMC. A car dealership for the times.

               Over lunch one day, Craig pointed out that there are no gags in
            this spot, no goofy-sounding voice-over. Just a guy reading about
            160 words. And although radio is often described as a visual
            medium, Craig called this an example of radio as print. I think he’s
            right. This commercial is simply an essay. Yet I think it’s an incredi-
            bly funny spot. So did a lot of listeners. This commercial made a
            bunch of money for Mr. Paul.

            Make sure your radio spot is important or scary or funny
            or interesting within the first five seconds.
            Your spot just interrupted your listener’s music. It’s like interrupt-
            ing people having sex. If you’re going to lean in the bedroom door
            to say something, make it good: “Hey, your car’s on fire.”
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:09 AM     Page 155

                                Radio Is Hell. But It’s a Dry Heat.                     155

              If your spot’s not interrupting music, it’s probably following on
            the heels of a bad commercial. Your listener is already bored.
            There’s no reason for him to believe your commercial’s going to be
            any better. Not a good time to bet on a slow build.
              Also, awards show judges, like consumers, are very harsh. They’ll
            grumble “fast-forward” in about five seconds if your spot isn’t strik-
            ing their fancy.
              The following spot has an interesting opening line. (I include it
            for more reasons than just the setup: It’s a simple premise, 130
            words long, with no sound effects, and it entertains the whole way
            through.) It’s a British spot and it may help to hear it read with a
            droll English accent.

                 MALE VOICE-OVER: My life. By an ordinary HP grade battery.

                 Monday. Bought by the Snoads of Jackson Road, Balham.
                 Placed in their torch. At last. A career.

                 Tuesday. How can I describe the cupboard under the stairs?
                 After much thought, I’ve come up with . . .“dark.”

                 Wednesday. The Snoads’ hamster goes walkabout. After nearly
                 five hours of continuous blazing torchlight, we track it down on
                 Clapham Common.

                 Thursday. Oh dear. I’m dead. They swapped me for Duracell. It
                 can power a torch nonstop for 39 hours. Which is nearly a full
                 eight hamsters.

                 Friday. How can I describe the [garbage can]? After much
                 thought, I’ve come up with . . .“rank.” Still, I’ve led an interest-
                 ing life. It’s just been a bit . . .“short.”

                 ANNOUNCER: Duracell. No ordinary battery looks like it. Or
                 lasts like it.

            Find your voice.
            Imagine how a novelist’s fingers must start to fly over the keys once
            she discovers her character. Finding your voice in radio can be just
            as liberating.
               Think about who your character is. What’s his take on your
            client’s product or on the category? Is he thoughtful or sarcastic?
            Cynical or wry? Once you find this voice, you will see the material
            unfold before you, see all the possibilities for future executions, and
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:09 AM    Page 156

            156                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            your pen will start to move. Some of the best radio out there is just
            one voice reading 10 sentences. But it’s that attitude the voice has,
            its take on the material, that makes it so compelling.

            Write radio sparely.
            Unless your concept demands a lot of words and fast action, write
            sparely. This allows your voice talent to read your script slowly. . . .
            Quietly.    One     word     at    a    time.
               You’ll be surprised at how this kind of bare-bones execution
            leaps out of the radio. There is a remarkable power in silence. It is
            to radio what white space is to print. Silence enlarges the idea it
            surrounds.
               But even if your idea isn’t a bare-bones kind of idea, write spar-
            ely. There’s nothing worse than showing up at the studio with a fat
            script. You’ll be forced to edit under pressure and without client
            approval.
               Another safeguard you can use against overwriting is to get the
            mandatories done and timed out first. For instance, if your bank
            commercial has to end with a bunch of legal mumbo jumbo, write it
            as sparely as you can and then time it. What you have left over is
            where your commercial has to fit.
               Overwriting is the most common mistake people make in radio.
            Be a genius. Underwrite.

            If a 60-second spot is a house, a 30 is a tent.
            Thirties are a different animal. If you think you’re writing sparely
            for a 60-second commercial, for a 30 we’re talking maybe 60 words.
            Thirties call for a different brand of thinking. It’s a lot like writing a
            10-second TV spot. If your 30 is to be a funny spot, the comedy has
            to be fast. A quick pie in the face.
               Here’s an example of a very simple premise that rolls itself out
            very quickly.

                  ANNOUNCER: We’re here on the street getting consumer reac-
                  tion to the leading brand of dog food.

                  VARIOUS VOICES ON STREET: Yelllllchh! Aaaarrrrrgh! Gross!
                  This tastes awful!

                  ANNOUNCER: If you’re presently a buyer of this brand, may we
                  suggest Tuffy’s dry dog food. Tuffy’s is nutritionally complete
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:09 AM    Page 157

                                Radio Is Hell. But It’s a Dry Heat.                  157

                 and balanced and it has a taste your dog will love. And at a dol-
                 lar less per bag, it comes with a price you can swallow.

                 VOICES ON STREET: Yellllch! Aaaarrrrrgh!

                 ANNOUNCER: Tuffy’s dry dog food.

               One other thing to keep in mind: Most radio spots are promo-
            tional in nature, and many clients will have different promotional
            tags they’ll want to add on at the end. This, too, cuts into your total
            time. So remember, write sparely.
               Another way commercials can be tagged is in the middle of the
            spot, in a place called a donut. As you can see, the metaphor
            describes a hole in the middle, and it’s for this reason that I urge
            you to avoid putting promotional material in a donut—it creates a
            hole in the middle of your spot and hurts continuity and flow. In my
            opinion, it’s generally better to add promotional stuff at the very
            end.

            Get a stopwatch and time it.
            Read it slowly while you do. Sometimes I’ll find myself cheating the
            clock in order to convince myself there’s time to include a favorite
            bit. I’ll read it fast but pretend I’m reading it slowly. I know, it’s
            pathetic, but it happens. Read your script s-l-o-w-l-y.

            If you’re doing a dialogue, do it extremely well.
            Write it exactly as people actually speak. This can be tough.
               One of the problems you face with dialogue is weaving a sales
            message into the natural flow of conversation. “Can I have another
            one of those Flavor-rific® brownies, now with one-third larger
            chocolate bits, Mom?” Always hard. Better to let a straight voice-
            over do the heavy lifting. Remember also that real people often
            speak in sentence fragments. Little bits of talk. That start, but go
            nowhere. Then restart. Also note that two people will often step on
            each other’s lines or complete each other’s thoughts.
               Remember, just as the eye isn’t fooled by cheap special effects,
            the ear picks up even slight divergences from real speech. Be care-
            ful with dialogue.
               This next spot is a good example of dialogue and a personal
            favorite. It’s written by London’s Tim Delaney, and if it’s a bit po-
            litically incorrect, well, that’s partly because it was written in the
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08     10:09 AM   Page 158

            158                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            1980s . . . and it was written by Tim Delaney. (Again, if you can read
            this copy with an English accent, all the better.)

                  SFX: Shop door with bell, opening and closing.

                  CUSTOMER (clearly an idiot): Morning, squire.

                  CLERK (patient and wise): Morning, sire.

                  CUSTOMER: I’d like a videocaster, please.

                  CLERK: A video recorder. Any one in particular?

                  CUSTOMER: Well, I’d like to have some specifications. . . .

                  CLERK: Yes?

                  CUSTOMER: . . . and functions. I must have some functions.

                  CLERK: I see. Did you have any model in mind?

                  CUSTOMER: Well, a friend mentioned the Airee-Keeri-Kabuki-
                  uh-Kasumi-uh watchamacallit. You know, the Japanese one,
                  the 2000. ’Cause I’m very technically minded, you see.

                  CLERK: I can see that.

                  CUSTOMER: So I want mine with all the little bits on it. All the
                  Japanese bits. You know, the 2000.

                  CLERK: What system?

                  CUSTOMER: Uh, uh, well, electrical, I think, because I’d like to
                  be able to plug it into the television. You see, I’ve got a
                  Japanese television.

                  CLERK: Have you?

                  CUSTOMER: Yeah, I thought you’d be impressed. Yeah, the
                  2000, the Oki-Koki 2000.

                  CLERK: Well, sir, there is this model.

                  CUSTOMER: Yeah, looks smart, yeah.

                  CLERK: Eight hours per cassette, all the functions that the oth-
                  ers have, and I know this will be of interest. A lot of scientific
                  research has gone into making it easy to operate . . .

                  CUSTOMER: Good, yeah.

                  CLERK: . . . even by a complete idiot like you.
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08     10:09 AM    Page 159

                                Radio Is Hell. But It’s a Dry Heat.              159

                 CUSTOMER: Pardon?

                 CLERK: It’s a Phillips.

                 CUSTOMER: Doesn’t sound very Japanese.

                 CLERK: No, a Phirrips. I mean, a Phirrips. It’s a Phirrips.

                 CUSTOMER: Yeah, it’s a 2000, is it?

                 CLERK: Oh, in fact it’s the 2022.

                 CUSTOMER: Hmmmm . . . no. Hasn’t got enough knobs on it.
                 Nope. What’s that one over there?

                 CLERK: That’s a washing machine.

                 CUSTOMER: Yeah? What? It’s a Japanese? (Fade out.)

                 ANNOUNCER VOICE-OVER: The VR 2022. Video you can under-
                 stand. From Phirrips.

               It’s obvious from the get-go in the “Phirrips” spot that the adver-
            tiser is being funny. It’s very broad humor at that. Here’s another bit
            of great dialogue by Aaron Allen of BlackRocket—very funny, but
            much more tongue-in-cheek. Picture it over a soundtrack of a run-
            ning shower.

                 SFX: Shower.

                 MAN: (from the living room) Hey, honey?

                 WOMAN: (Speaking a little loud, over the running water of her
                 shower) Hi, sweetie.

                 MAN: Were you doing something to the lawn?

                 WOMAN: Yeah, I put in a sprinkler system.

                 (Pause.)

                 MAN: What?

                 WOMAN: I put in a sprinkler system.

                 MAN: When did you do that?

                 WOMAN: Today.

                 MAN: But how di . . . really?

                 WOMAN: Yep.
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:09 AM    Page 160

            160                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                  MAN: I would’ve done that.

                  WOMAN: Oh, that’s okay. It was kind of fun.

                  MAN: Does it work?

                  WOMAN: What?

                  MAN: Nothing. (Pause.) You know those trenches have to be at
                  least ten inches deep or the pipes will freeze.

                  WOMAN: Yeah, I know. They’re seventeen.

                  (Long pause.)

                  MAN: Don’t use my conditioner, okay?

                  WOMAN: I’m not.

                  ANNOUNCER: Tools. Materials. Advice. Sanity. OurHouse-dot-
                  com. We’re here to help. Partnered with Ace.

            Read your radio out loud.
            You’ll hear things to improve that you won’t pick up just by scan-
            ning the script. The written and spoken word are different. Make
            sure your writing sounds like everyday speech. Read it aloud.

            Avoid the formula of “shtick—serious sales part—
            shtick reprise.”
            You’ve heard them. The spots begin with some comic situation tan-
            gentially related to the product benefit. Then, about 40 seconds into
            the spot, an announcer comes in to “get serious” and sell you some-
            thing. After which there’s a happy little visit back to the joke.
               One of the problems with this structure is that ungraceful
            moment when the salesman pops out of the closet in his plaid
            coat. This shtick-sales-shtick structure can work, but make sure
            you don’t jar your listeners too much when you switch over to
            sales mode.
               Personally, I think it’s better to construct a comic situation that
            you don’t have to leave in order to come around to the sale.
            Remember our earlier metaphor of the dog and the pill? How it’s
            best to wrap the baloney all around the pill? Well, same thing here.
            Here’s a great example of premise flowing seamlessly into sale,
            written by Mike Renfro of The Richards Group.
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp      1/2/08    10:09 AM     Page 161

                                  Radio Is Hell. But It’s a Dry Heat.                    161

                 MAN (in a very straightforward, monotone voice): Ever had the
                 feeling when you’re driving that idiots just seem to follow you
                 wherever you go? Well, it’s true. I should know. You see, I am
                 an idiot and I’ve been assigned to you. Actually, I’m only one of
                 three idiots assigned to you. We each work eight-hour shifts.
                 This month, I happen to be on days. So it’s my job to dog you
                 relentlessly. Today, I might be the guy in the blue Nova who
                 cuts you off. Tomorrow, the guy in the orange Pacer who runs a
                 light. Next week, who knows? Which is why you might want to
                 be certain you’re properly insured. With me and my colleagues
                 out here, you need to call Great American Insurance Company.
                 They’re a company that’s been around since 1872. And since
                 they don’t cover guys like me, they can save good drivers
                 money. Just tell ’em some idiot on the radio sent you.*

                 ANNOUNCER: Great American®. Call 1–800–555-XXXX.

               Here’s another example of what I mean when I say bake your
            sales idea right into the concept.

                 (This spot was recorded in environment, all one continuous sin-
                 gle take—breaths, ambient noise, warts, and all. The read begins
                 at a natural pace and builds.)

                 KID: Tobacco companies make a product that’s responsible for
                 one death every eight seconds. Which means another person
                 will probably die in the time it takes me to tell you that tobacco
                 companies make a product that’s responsible for about one
                 death every eight seconds. And that means another person
                 probably just died while I was telling you that another person
                 will probably die in the time it takes me to tell you that tobacco
                 companies make a product that’s responsible for about one
                 death every eight seconds. And that would also mean that about
                 two people probably just died in the time it took me to tell you
                 that another person probably died while I was telling you that
                 another person probably died in the time takes me to tell you
                 that tobacco companies make a product that’s responsible for
                 about one death every eight seconds. And you know what?
                 Another two people probably just died in the time it took me to

            *Used by permission of Great American Insurance Company, Cincinnati, Ohio.
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08    10:09 AM    Page 162

            162                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                  tell you that about two people probably died in the time it took
                  me to tell you that another person probably died while I was
                  telling you that another person will probably die in the time it
                  takes me to tell you that tobacco companies make a product
                  that’s responsible for about one death every eight seconds. And
                  that means that during this commercial somewhere in the
                  world, tobacco companies’ products killed about eight people.
                  This message brought to you by truth.

            Make your spot entertaining all the way to the end,
            particularly when you get to the sell.
            I’ve heard many radio spots that start out great, but when they get
            to the selling message, they sputter out and fail. You can’t just write
            the sell off as “the announcer stuff.” It is part and parcel of the spot.
            It’s the hardest part to make palatable but also the most important.
               A humorous radio spot is like a good stand-up comedy routine.
            You need to open funny and end funny. And in the middle, you
            need to pulse the funny bits, to keep ’em coming. Do a funny line
            and then allow some breathing room, another funny bit, then more
            mortar, then another brick, more mortar, brick, mortar. Actually,
            such a structure can serve a commercial of any tone—just keep
            reeling out something interesting every couple of feet.
               This commercial from BBDO West sells all the way through. But
            the way it’s written, you are entertained all the way along. It’s just
            one guy, a very straight-laced voice-over reading 189 words without
            a trace of irony.

                  ANNOUNCER: Fire ants are not loveable. People do not want
                  fire-ant plush toys. They aren’t cuddly. They don’t do little
                  tricks. They just bite you and leave red, stinging welts that make
                  you want to cry. That’s why they have to die. And they have to
                  die right now. You don’t want them to have a long, lingering ill-
                  ness. You want death. A quick, excruciating, see-you-in-hell
                  kind of death. You don’t want to lug a bag of chemicals and a
                  garden hose around the yard. It takes too long. And baits can
                  take up to a week. No, my friend, what you want is Ant-Stop
                  Orthene Fire Ant Killer from Ortho. You put two teaspoons of
                  Ant-Stop around the mound and you’re done. You don’t even
                  water it in. The scout ants bring it back into the mound. And
                  this is the really good part. Everybody dies. Even the queen. It’s
                  that fast. And that’s good. Because killing fire ants shouldn’t be
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08    10:09 AM       Page 163

                                 Radio Is Hell. But It’s a Dry Heat.                 163

                 a full-time job. Even if it is pretty fun. Ant-Stop Orthene Fire-
                 Ant Killer from Ortho. Kick fire-ant butt.*

            Once you get an idea you like, write the entire spot before
            you decide it doesn’t work.
            Tell your internal editor to put a sock in it. Just get that raw material
            on paper. You may find that in the writing you fix what was bother-
            ing you about the commercial.

            Avoid the temptation to use any sort of brand name
            or other copyrighted material.
            As an example, I once wrote a script where I referred to The
            Beatles. They weren’t the focus of the spot; their name was used in
            an offhand sort of aside. The spot was approved, but one week
            before we recorded the script, the lawyers landed on it like a ton of
            hair spray and cell phones. When I tried to rewrite it, days after the
            original heat of the creative moment had cooled, I found myself
            unable to replace the line without repair marks showing.
               Lesson: Don’t even touch copyrighted stuff. Famous people,
            brand names, even dead guys who’ve been taking a dirt nap for 50
            years—their lawyers are all still alive and slithering about, full of
            grim reptilian vigor. Stay generic.

            Don’t do jingles.
            Do I have to say this? Jingles are a boring, corny, horrible, and sad
            thing left over from Eisenhower’s 1950s—a time, actually, when
            everything was boring, corny, horrible, and sad. Avoid jingles as you
            would a poisonous toad. They are death.

                                         THE JOY OF SFX.
            A sound effect can lead to a concept.
            It’s an interesting place to start. Find a sound that has something to
            do with your product or category and play with it.

            *Used by permission of © Monsanto Company.
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp      1/2/08     10:09 AM     Page 164

            164                     “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

              Here’s an example of a sound effect, set inside a good comic
            premise and used to great effect.

                  SFX: Telephone ring.

                  MAN: Hello.

                  CALLER: Oh. I’m sorry. I was looking for another number.

                  MAN: 976-EDEN?

                  CALLER: Well . . . yeah.

                  MAN: You got it.

                  CALLER: The flyer said to ask for Eve.

                  MAN: Yeah, well she’s not here. I can help you.

                  CALLER: Oh . . . no. That’s okay, I’ll just . . .

                  MAN: Hold on, hold on. Let me get the apple.

                  CALLER: The apple?

                  MAN: You ready? Here goes . . .

                  SFX: Big juicy crunch of an apple.

                  CALLER: That’s . . . you’re eating an apple. That’s the “little bit
                  of paradise” you advertised?

                  MAN: Well, that’s a “little bite of paradise.” The printer made a
                  mistake.

                  CALLER: I’m supposed to sit here and listen to you eat an apple?

                  MAN: Well, it is a Washington apple.

                  SFX: Crunch.

                  CALLER: Look, I’m not going to pay three dollars a minute just
                  to sit here while you . . .

                  MAN: Nice, big, Red Delicious Washington apple.

                  SFX: Crunch.

                  CALLER: . . . eat an apple. . . . It does sound good.

                  MAN: It’s nice and crisp, you know.

                  CALLER: Sounds good.

                  MAN: Kinda sweet.
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp      1/2/08     10:09 AM      Page 165

                                  Radio Is Hell. But It’s a Dry Heat.               165

                 CALLER: Uh-huh.

                 MAN: Fresh.

                 CALLER: I shouldn’t . . . this is silly . . .

                 SFX: Crunch.

                 CALLER: What are you wearing?

                 MAN: Well, a flannel shirt and a paisley ascot.

                 CALLER: Oh. Describe the apple again.

                 MAN: Mmmmm-hmmmm.

                 ANNOUNCER: Washington apple.

                 SFX: Crunch.

                 ANNOUNCER: They’re as good as you’ve heard.

               You can also base a spot on a sound effect that doesn’t even exist.
            To get to this spot for a technical school in Minneapolis, I first
            started by thinking about what sound effect said “all alone.” I set-
            tled on the classic sound effect of a cricket, which I thought ably
            represented the loneliness of a person living in their parents’ base-
            ment, a liberal arts graduate waiting by the phone for a job offer
            that would never come. Once I got the script done, the fun part was
            messing around at the controls with the engineer, Andre, trying to
            morph the sound of a cricket into the sound of a ringing phone and
            then into a hallucination. It was fun.

                 MALE VOICE-OVER: After graduation, as you sit in your parent’s
                 basement waiting for the phone to ring with job offers that will
                 never come, you’ll begin to hear them. The crickets.

                 SFX: Crickets.

                 VOICE-OVER: That lonely sound. The theme song of the disen-
                 franchised. Sometimes you think you hear the phone ringing,
                 with a job offer.

                 SFX: Telephone ring, which then becomes crickets again.

                 VOICE-OVER: But it’s just them—the crickets. Soon you start to
                 hear what they’re really saying.

                 SFX: Cricket sound morphs into a teasing, high-pitched, vibrat-
                 ing voice that says, “Looooser. Looooser.”
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08   10:09 AM    Page 166

            166                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                  VOICE-OVER: Now’s probably not a good time to hear about the
                  graduates of Dunwoody Institute,

                  SFX: A few regular cricket chirps. then a few saying “Loooooser.”

                  VOICE-OVER: How there’s an average of four job offers waiting
                  for every Dunwoody graduate. No, you’re going to hold out.
                  For a call that will never come.

                  SFX: Actual real phone, ringing loud. phone is picked up.

                  GUY: Hello????

                  SFX: Cricket, heard through phone speaker, says, “Looooser.”
                  Laughs and hangs up. . . . One last little cricket chirp.

                  VOICE-OVER: Call Dunwoody Institute and get training in one
                  of sixteen interesting careers. Call 374–5800. 374–5800.

              Radio is where you can think of six impossible things before
            breakfast and then actually do them.

            Don’t overdo sound effects.
            Sound effects can be great tools for radio. They can help tell a story.
            They can be the story. But don’t overuse them or expect them to do
            things they can’t.
               Since 90 percent of radio listening is done in the car (to and from
            work, during what media buyers call drive time), minute subtleties
            are going to be lost. The buttoning of a shirt does indeed make a
            sound, but it probably isn’t enough to communicate somebody get-
            ting dressed.
               My friend, Mike Lescarbeau, says that any day now he expects a
            client to ask him to open a radio spot with “the sound effect of
            somebody getting a great value.”

            Don’t waste time explaining things.
            Screenwriter William Goldman advised, “Cut into a scene as late as
            you possibly can.” Good advice. Crisp self-editing like this keeps
            your story moving along with a minimum of moving parts. His
            advice has a classical precedent. In Greek plays, this technique was
            called in media res—in the middle of things.
              Cut right to the important part of a scene. For instance, in your
            radio spot, we hear the sound effect of a knock at the door. Does
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM    Page 167

                               Radio Is Hell. But It’s a Dry Heat.            167

            the next line really have to be “Hey, someone’s at the door”?
            Probably not. Let the sound effects tell your story for you. People
            are smart. They’ll fill in the blanks if you provide the structure.

            Avoid cacaphony.
            You might as well learn now that you can’t put sirens in a radio
            spot. At least not in my market. I can see why. It confuses drivers.
            They hear a siren sound effect on their radio and pull over to let an
            ice cream truck pass by.
               While we’re on the subject of irritating noises, keep any kind of
            cacophony out of your spot. That includes yelling—even “comedic”
            yelling. It grates on the listener. Especially on the third and fourth
            airing.
               I’ve always thought of radio as the best medium to target carpen-
            ters. These guys have their radios on all day. They’re not just going
            to hear your spot, they’re going to hear the entire radio buy. One
            carpenter told me he actually changes stations to avoid hearing an
            irritating spot played over and over again.
               Keep carpenters in mind when you write. Remember, these guys
            have hammers.

                        CASTING: BORING, TEDIOUS, ESSENTIAL.
            Cast and cast and cast.
            Casting is everything. In radio, the voice-over you choose is the star,
            the wardrobe, the set design, everything all rolled into one. It’s the
            most important decision you make during production.
               Start casting as soon as possible. Send your script to as many cast-
            ing houses in as many major cities as you can. I strongly suggest that
            two of those cities be Los Angeles and New York. Along with the
            scripts, send your casting specs: some description of the quality of
            voice you have in mind.
               About a week later, the auditions will turn up, usually via a link
            on the Internet. Listen to all of them (at my agency, 60 to 100 audi-
            tions for one voice is normal). Make your selections and then make
            a short list of the best voices back-to-back so you can zero in on
            those nuances that make a real difference. Your final short list
            should be your top three. You’ll also have a second and third choice
            to return to if your client has a problem with the one you recom-
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:09 AM   Page 168

            168                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            mend. (Also, you can pick one voice from New York, another from
            Los Angeles. It doesn’t matter; you digitally patch them into your
            local recording studio.)
               One last note: Consider using the voice of just “some guy”—
            a friend, the babysitter, or somebody in the media department.
            A modicum of talent is necessary, but it can work and be really
            fresh sounding.

            Cast people who have some edge to them.
            Spielberg is alleged to have responded to the question “What is the
            key to making great movies?” with “Eccentric casting.”
               This is good advice. Most of the auditions you’ll be listening to
            during casting are going to be vanilla. That’s because you’re hearing
            a lot of highly skilled voice people doing reads they think will keep
            them on the short list. They’ll be taking their edges off, moving
            toward the middle, and going white-bread on you.
               Listen for authenticity. Listen for grist. Don’t listen for a great
            voice talent who will read your fake script for money. Listen for real.

            As you listen to the casting, keep an open mind about the
            voice you’re looking for.
            You may discover someone who brings a whole new approach to
            your script. Sometimes it comes from an ad-lib or from an actor
            who doesn’t understand the soul of the spot. These fresh
            approaches to your material may open up new possibilities for how
            you might produce the final commercial.

            Rewrite based on what you learn from the casting.
            You’ll have one last chance to make your radio spot better. When
            you’re listening to the actors read your lines, keep an ear cocked for
            those sentences where the actors stumble.
               If more than one actor has a problem with a line, it’s likely it’s the
            line that’s the problem, not the actors.
               I usually discover that if I have a dialogue, one or two of the lines
            I have given the actors are too long. The dialogue is flowing along
            and suddenly it’s a monologue. So as you listen to the casting tapes,
            listen for the general flow. Is it entertaining in the first 10 seconds?
            In the second 10? The last? Are you saying the same thing twice?
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM    Page 169

                               Radio Is Hell. But It’s a Dry Heat.              169

            Are you saying the same thing twice? If you can take something
            out, do it now. It’s your last chance to make a change and have the
            client sign off before you go into the studio.

            Sometimes the best way to present a spot is to do a demo.
            Ask your producer if there’s a couple hundred in the budget you
            could use for this purpose. If your spot depends on the unique pre-
            sentation of a particular actor’s voice, this may be the way to go.

                          PRODUCING A RADIO COMMERCIAL.
            Production is where 90 percent of all radio spots fail.
            For some reason I don’t quite get, radio is an all-or-nothing
            medium. It works or it doesn’t. There is no in-between. I urge you to
            learn how and learn well all the elements of production.
               Copywriter Tom Monahan on radio:

              In radio, there’s simply no place to hide anything. No place for the
              mistakes, the poor judgment, the weaknesses. Everything is right
              there in front for all 30 or 60 seconds. Everything must be good for
              the spot to be good. The concept, copy, casting, acting, production—
              everything. One of them goes wrong, sorry, but it’s tune-out time.1

              So, start with a good idea. Craft it into a great script.
            Congratulations, you are 10 percent of the way there.

            Develop a good working relationship
            with a local audio engineer.
            My friend, copywriter Phil Hanft, reminded me of the importance
            of finding a good recording engineer in your town—a technician
            with a great ear who will add to the process. One who understands
            timing, and the importance of the right sound effects and the right
            music. Not someone who wants to get you in and out as fast as pos-
            sible or someone who agrees with everything you do. As William
            Wrigley Jr. said, “When two people in business always agree, one of
            them is unnecessary.”
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 170

            170                “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Keep the studio entourage to a minimum.
            Try to produce your spot alone. Well, just you and the engineer, I
            mean. No clients. No account executives. Not that they’re bad peo-
            ple and you, you alone, are a Radio God. It’s just that large crowds
            bring tension into those small rooms. Your spot will have more
            focus if it isn’t produced by a committee of six.

            Provide your talent with scripts that are easy to read.
            Unless your actor really needs to see the cues of sound effects (or
            the lines of another actor), cut out everything except what he or she
            has to read. Set the type in something like 14 point and double-
            space it so there’s room for the talent to scribble in any coaching
            advice or last-minute changes.
               Don’t worry about proper punctuation. Write for the flow of
            speech. And underline or italicize words you know you want the
            voice-over to hit. But don’t OVERdo it or your final read IS going
            to SUCK.
               Also, come to the session prepared to cut certain lines, in the
            event your script runs long. Know in advance what to cut, or you’ll
            find yourself rewriting under pressure at the studio. Not good.

            When you’re in the recording studio, tell the voice-over
            to read it straight.
            Most of them have been trained by years of copywriters telling
            them to “put a smile in your voice” or hit the word “tomorrow” in
            the line “So come on in tomorrow.” People don’t talk like that.
            Have your voice-over talk like you talk. I find a flat read is best.

            When directing talent, be precise.
            My engineer friend Andre Bergeron says he often sees writers
            directing with flabby, inarticulate language that leaves the talent
            clueless and uncomfortable. “Can you make that read more . . .
            more green?”
              Try not to be so . . . so . . . what’s the word? . . . irritating.
              My advice: For the first few takes, let the talent read it the way
            she wants. Some of them are very experienced. If your script is
            great, she may pick up on what you want right at the outset. If she
            doesn’t, fine; you’ve involved the talent up front and now you both
            have a baseline from which to work.
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 171

                              Radio Is Hell. But It’s a Dry Heat.             171

              Also, don’t wear out your talent by making them start from the
            top for every take. If you’ve got a good opening on tape, do what’s
            called a pickup and start the read further into the script. Then do a
            quick edit to see if it cuts together. It usually does.

            Don’t let the talent steamroll you.
            If you’re a young writer on your first studio session, let your engi-
            neer in on this fact, but not the talent. The engineer, if he’s a good
            soul, will show you the ropes and teach what you need to know. But
            if the voice-over catches a whiff of “junior meat” in the studio,
            they’ll take over the session, particularly if you’re working with
            some of the higher-priced Hollywood or New York talent. Don’t let
            it happen.
               TV shoots are controlled by the director. Radio, by the writer.
            Stay in charge of the room. Give-and-take is fine, but ultimately
            you’re the one who has to show up back at the agency with a spot. If
            you’re new to the business, it’s probably not a bad idea to ask a
            senior writer if you can observe a few recording sessions before you
            tackle one alone.

            Don’t be afraid to stray from the script.
            It’s just the architecture. Get the client-approved script in the can,
            but if something else seems to be working, explore it. Record those
            other ideas and come back to experiment with them later.

            Spread your production over a couple of days.
            Record voices on the first day, review all the takes, and make your
            selections of the best tracks. Maybe get a rough cut done. But save
            the music, sound effects, and final mix for the next day. That second
            day gives you a chance to react to your spot more objectively.

            Don’t overproduce.
            I’ve seen it happen a million times. You get into that tiny room with
            all the knobs and buttons. You drink too much coffee. You start
            messing with the “s” on the end of the word prices, borrowing the
            “s” from take 17 and putting it on price from 22. You start taking a
            breath out here and adding it there. By the time you’re done, you
            have a slick, surgically perfect piece of rubbish that sounds as nat-
            ural as Michael Jackson.
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 172

            172                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

              When painting a picture, never put your nose closer than six
            inches to the canvas.

            If your client can afford it, always produce one more radio
            spot than you need.
            It’s the darnedest thing. But the script you thought was the hilarious
            one turns out to be the least funny. It happens every time I go into
            the studio. One or two spots are simply going to be better than the
            others. The more you have to choose from, the better.
               One way to get a few more spots out of the session is to record
            your alternate scripts at what they call demo rates and then upgrade
            the talent (pay the full rate) if the client approves the commercials.

            Keep a digital master of every spot you record.
            Compile your own master reel and keep it current. I store each new
            radio spot on my Apple. It beats having a hundred CDs clutter up
            your office, and when you need to send out a reel, you can put your
            best five or six spots on one CD. It doesn’t cost a lot, and it looks
            cool.

                              CAN WE HIT “PAUSE” FOR A SEC?
            So we’ve talked about creating ideas in a variety of different
            media—how to think in print, outdoor, TV, and now a bit in radio.
            Okay, if those were like beginning lessons in each of the instru-
            ments, now it’s time to think orchestra. This is where it gets pretty
            cool.
15934_Sullivan_c07_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 173
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp      1/2/08    10:09 AM     Page 174

             Figure 8.1 The MINI was introduced to America with one of the smallest
                               TV budgets ever—fortunately.

            © 2007 MINI, a division of BMW of North America, LLC. All rights reserved. The MINI
            and BMW trademark, model names, and logo are registered trademarks.
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 175

                                            8
                        Big Honkin’ Ideas
                          Hitting on every cylinder

            BECAUSE I AM FREQUENTLY ACCUSED OF BEING OLD, I feel the need
            to point out that I was not a winner in—nor even in attendance at—
            the 1902 award ceremonies for the One Show. However, since you
            brought it up, I believe it was a very short program. They announced
            winners in just two media categories—best newspaper ad and best
            sandwich board—and pretty much called it a night.
               Times have changed, haven’t they?
               The other day I found myself in a meeting where somebody actu-
            ally kept a straight face as he proposed making a “blog-isode.” He
            also wanted to create a few “content-mercials,” and a “web-inar.”
               I can wrinkle my patrician Merriam-Webster nose at it all I want,
            but we may actually have to start inventing words for some of the
            new media fragments created since the whole grid reached critical
            mass in the late 1990s. A truncated list of what’s called the new
            media might include banners, blogs, branded entertainment, blue-
            casting, buzz marketing, consumer-generated content, experiential
            marketing, gaming tie-ins, interactive billboards and kiosks,
            intranets and extranets, mobile phone texting, mobile video, PDA
            downloads, public relations and earned media, rich media, screen
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 176

            176                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            savers, video on demand, widgets, and those funny viral videos you
            e-mail to friends even though their company firewalls will probably
            block them.
               This list doesn’t count all the odd nooks and crannies now for
            sale as paid media. You can print your client’s good name on the
            stripes in between car spaces in parking lots. You can paste it under
            diving boards, stick it on the skins of fruit at the grocery store, and
            by wearing shoes soled with a client’s logo, impress their name into
            beaches everywhere. Citizens are even selling the space on their
            foreheads. And now that urinal deodorizing pucks are a hot media
            opportunity, it’s no longer considered curmudgeonly to grumble
            how a guy can’t even take a piss around here without seeing an ad.
            It’s crazy.
               I’m reminded of a headline in the Onion that read “Area 14-Year-
            Old Collapses Under Weight of Corporate Logos.” Everything is
            branding, ladies and gents. It’s all for sale. We can either bemoan
            how we’ve become the dystopia once imagined in the opening scene
            of Blade Runner or we can decide to fill all these new spaces with
            stuff that’s cool, stuff that’s interesting. (Come to think of it, that
            Blade Runner scene was actually pretty interesting.) One of
            Wikipedia’s contributors nicely summed up the draw of new media:
            “Within the advertising business there is a blurring of the distinction
            between creative (content) and the media (the delivery of this con-
            tent). New media itself is considered to be creative and the medium
            has indeed become the message.”1
               This is where the clients are spending more and more of their
            marketing dollars. The shift is clear; it’s away from huge TV buys
            and toward the new media. Roy Spence of GSD&M says we should
            do more than just welcome all these new opportunities; he says,
            “Kiss change on the lips.” I’m pretty sure he’s right. But before we
            start filming a “webi-sitcom” or writing ads for every flat surface we
            can see from our office windows, it’ll pay to first sit down and figure
            out a few things.

            Imagine a day in the life of your customer.
            Let’s put our ad-writing pencils down for a minute and think way
            upstream about our client and their customer.
              How does our client’s typical customer spend a day? What does
            he or she do in the morning? Is the radio on while he fixes breakfast
            or does he grab something on the go? Does he drive to work? Does
            he have an iPod? Does he recycle? What blogs does he read when
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 177

                                       Big Honkin’ Ideas                       177

            he’s supposed to be working? Does he run at a gym or on the
            streets, or does he run like me . . . into the kitchen for another
            Krispy Kreme?
               This thinking doesn’t have to be guesswork. It’s likely that your
            agency colleagues have gathered all kinds of good research about
            the customer. So before you start work on a campaign, it’s time to
            sit down with the account, planning, and media team and map out a
            day in the life. (I read the news today, oh boy.) Newspapers may
            indeed play a part in this person’s life, as will other common media,
            like television and radio. But those are the easy ones. And we’re not
            making a media checklist here anyway. What we’re doing is looking
            for insight. It’s kinda like we’re trying to see the aquarium from the
            inside out, to move through our customers’ world. We’re looking for
            contact points with customers that are unexplored. We’re looking
            for places where customers might even welcome a cool message
            from our brand. Places where the right message could be less of an
            ad and more like information or entertainment.
               A day in the life of a real estate agent is gonna be different than a
            corporate executive’s day. A real estate agent practically lives
            online and his cell phone rings constantly. The executive probably
            has people to answer her phone and gets information by listening to
            podcasts at the gym or reading business pubs on the plane.
               While all this different-strokes-for-different-folks stuff may seem
            a little obvious, it’s surprising how many agencies use the same
            media plan to reach every audience (“We’ll buy TV for reach, maga-
            zines for frequency, and throw in a little radio for promotions.”)
               Okay, now before we start writing, there’s one other mental exer-
            cise that may be helpful.

            Imagine the buying process.
            After you’ve mapped a day in the life with your customer, switch
            gears. Now think through how a customer decides to buy your
            client’s product. Here again, agency research and insights from your
            colleagues can help you see the entire buying process through a
            customer’s eyes.
               Some folks call this the purchase funnel, though that’s a little
            creepy for my money. I guess any number of visual metaphors might
            be helpful in visualizing the buying process. Whatever image you set-
            tle on, scribble it on a big pad and start visualizing what happens to
            your customer as he or she moves toward actually buying your
            client’s product. Think it through. How is it that a normal person can
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 178

            178                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            move from a state of being perfectly happy without, say, your client’s
            fabulous flat-screen TV—to noticing the flat screen in the sports
            bar—to thinking, “Geez, my old TV does kinda suck”—to swooning
            in front of all the brands on display at the mall—to checkin’ prices
            online—to triumphantly swiping their VISA card through the
            machine at Circuit City (or swallowing hard and hitting “Buy now
            with one click”). As you go through the process, jot down the contact
            points that pop up—those times a customer might have occasion to
            think about a flat-screen TV, or about the whole home entertain-
            ment category in general.
               As you might imagine, the consideration process is different for a
            flat-screen TV than, say, buying a pack of gum, or a car, or insur-
            ance. Depending on the product, the process can be short or long;
            the longer ones typically consist of phases. I’m sort of making up
            some phases here for a nonexistent product, but a customer could
            move from (pardon my punctuation) general awareness > short-
            listing > comparison > store contact > trial. Phases such as these
            may be useful to keep in mind as you work on your overall idea.
            Different media will be in play at different parts of the purchase
            cycle, and each of them has its strengths.
               Here’s the thing to remember about this whole exercise: Your
            main idea may come out of one of these contact points—an idea you
            can then spread sideways and backward to fill in the whole
            campaign.

            Pick a small customer contact point and then think big.
            We’re ready to sit down and start coming up with big honkin’ ideas.
            Oh, one last thing. You can’t do any TV or print.
              When you sit down to begin work, start by imagining there are no
            TV commercials and no print ads. Anywhere. They’re all gone.
              Here’s where it gets interesting. You still have to sell your client’s
            product or service, but you have to find a new way of doing it.
              What are you going to do?
              Now don’t get me wrong. I’m not saying TV and print are passé.
            What I’m saying is that when you start with TV (and its usual side
            orders of print-’n’-radio) you’re solving problems in a prepackaged
            way. Ultimately, you may very well end up airing a TV spot. Great.
            But you don’t have to start there. This advice may at first seem
            kinda weird, since most of this book so far has been about coming
            up with print ads and TV, right? Well, yes and no. We’ve used print
            and TV as starting points to talk about the craft, yes. But what we’ve
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:09 AM    Page 179

                                        Big Honkin’ Ideas                           179

            really been talking about is thinking creatively. And now it’s time to
            apply that creative thinking free of form.
               Start with a blank piece of paper. In fact, let’s not even think
            paper. How would you tell your brand’s story around a campfire?
            How would you tell the story if Blackberry PDAs were your only
            medium? Or vending machines? What if all you had to work with
            was the way the store operators answered the phone? What if you
            made it a free download from iTunes? How would you start blog-
            gers talking about your product? How about those flyers placed
            under windshield wipers? (Uh, on second thought, I hate those
            things. Never mind.)
               As you can see, I’m exhorting you to start somewhere. You have
            to, obviously, but I urge you to pick one of the more intriguing cus-
            tomer contact points and then begin. It’s sort of like that bumper
            sticker: “Act Locally, Think Globally.” Go over the two lists you just
            made: a day in the life and the purchase process. What opportunities
            jump out at you?
               In Laurence Minksy’s book (How to Succeed in Advertising
            When All You Have Is Talent), Weiden’s Susan Hoffman put it this
            way:

              Think holistically. . . . [What] would you do in the store? How can
              you pull the iconography of the campaign right into the clothing hang
              tag? A coupon? Online? The best work has legs to go everywhere
              and puts a strong, consistent, visual imprint on every consumer touch
              point. It’s important to bring this kind of thinking to your work. . . .
              Take this inventiveness and apply it to the business. But do more
              than just ads. Produce an album, experiment with graffiti, invent a
              new product, shoot a film, or write a book.2

               Think creatively about different media where your message can
            appear. Play out that day in the life of your customer, see where it
            matches up with the world of your product, and then just start
            screwing around with it.
               For instance, the inside bottom of a paper coffee cup might be a
            good place to put a message about sweeteners. (Nahhh . . . the ink
            printing inside the cup would creep the drinker out. Anyway, you
            see my point.) Maybe a dingy subway car is just the place to tell a
            glassy-eyed commuter she needs a cruise to St. Thomas. If your
            client is an organization for some social issue, why not paint your
            idea all over the building across from city hall? (I heard an agency
            actually projected a provocative ad directly onto a government
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 180

            180                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                   Figure 8.2 Your ad doesn’t have to appear in a magazine.
                                Some of the best ones don’t.

            building.) Just go for it; maybe you can do it, maybe you can’t, but
            until someone makes a phone call, you don’t know.
               Abbott Mead Vickers put a message from the business magazine
            The Economist on top of a bus that rolled through London’s finan-
            cial district, the Square Mile. (See Figure 8.2.)
               As for finding a startlingly effective place to put a client’s mes-
            sage, the most brilliant I’ve ever seen was a spot that ran on the
            porn channel in hotels. Virgin Atlantic wanted to tell business trav-
            elers about the nice new seats in their transatlantic flights. The team
            figured—cynically and correctly—that a day in the life of a travel-
            ing businessman might include a quick visit to the in-room “adult”
            channel. So that’s where they placed their commercial, smartly
            labeling it “Free Movie.” When you pressed “Play” you saw a 12-
            minute video that looked and sounded like porn but was really just
            a long, raunchy infomercial full of double entendres about the plea-
            sures of flying across the Atlantic in a seat that goes all the way
            back. The idea was so naughty, its very existence drew tons of free
            media coverage.
               To fully realize the possibilities of a multimedia campaign, you’re
            going to need to drag your main idea through each medium and
            start from scratch when you get there. What works in outdoor may
            suck as print. The challenge is to make your product look totally
            cool in each medium and then, at the end of the day, have your
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 181

                                       Big Honkin’ Ideas                      181

            overall campaign hang together with one consistent look, one con-
            sistent message.

            Bring your idea to life in one medium and then go
            on to the next.
            Okay, we’ve talked about taking in the big picture before you write,
            thinking through a day in the life, considering a product’s purchase
            cycle, and putting a typical media buy into the blender and hitting
            purée. Any one of these mental exercises should help free up your
            thinking and take you to some new places.
               Now it’s time to put it all together and use them to create a fully
            integrated multimedia campaign. As an example, let’s look at some
            work done for the American Legacy Foundation’s truth® youth
            smoking prevention campaign. (Strategically, the campaign was bril-
            liant, and though I won’t go into it here, you should study the strat-
            egy behind this work. For our purposes today, we’re talkin’ tactics.)
               truth® wanted to point out to teenagers that cigarettes contain
            ammonia. Their first idea, the basic platform, was this simple paral-
            lelism: “Cigarettes contain ammonia. So does dog poop.”
               Perfect. It’s an unpleasant idea and a grotesque image. Next, after
            thinking for a while, they found their first execution (and it wasn’t a
            TV spot or a print ad).
               “Hey, what if we stuck small signs directly into actual dog poop in
            city parks? Signs with the message: ‘Cigarettes contain ammonia. So
            does dog poop.’”
               Boom. There’s the outdoor. (Or what some call guerrilla adver-
            tising.)
               Then they took the same small sign and turned it into a print ad.
            The ad featured three dog poop signs, die cut and ready for the
            reader to deploy. Boom. Print’s done.
               Then they filmed some truth volunteers at a park sticking these
            signs in dog poop as curious passersby looked on. Boom. TV’s done.
               An entire campaign from one idea, expressed seamlessly in sev-
            eral media—boom, boom, boom (Figure 8.3). Man, if advertising
            gets cooler than this, I haven’t seen it. A warning here, though, from
            Saatchi’s Tony Granger: “Simply checking the boxes across every
            possible new media channel is no longer enough to stand out. . . .
            Each piece of creative should stand on its own as a great expression
            of the big idea.”3
               This truth campaign did happen to employ some of our usual sus-
            pects (TV and print), so let’s go back to our self-imposed rule and
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp        1/2/08      10:09 AM      Page 182

            182                       “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

             Figure 8.3 The sign in the dog poop reads: “Cigarettes contain ammonia.
              So does dog poop.” An entire multimedia campaign from this one idea.

            pretend TV and print don’t exist. How could we promote, say, a
            retail client that needs some buzz for a new store—without TV or
            print?
               IKEA decided to get buzz going for a store opening in Toronto
            by putting a living room full of their sleek furniture on the public
            sidewalk of the train station. But to make it an event, the creatives
            at CP⫹B* (Mike Lear and Dave Swartz) attached notes to the fur-
            niture that read: “Steal me.” The copy went on to ask, “What better
            way to make a friend than to say, ‘Excuse me, want to help me steal
            this sofa?’ The two of you will then be able to look back at this day
            and say, ‘Hey, remember that time we stole that sofa?’ And you’ll
            laugh. Of course, you and your new friend could always just go to
            IKEA and buy a Klippan sofa, seeing as they’re only $250.”
               People didn’t believe it at first, but after the first two strangers
            helped each other cart off a couch without the cops showin’ up, the
            whole ensemble disappeared in an eight-minute scene of helpful,
            harmonious larceny.

            *Yes, I know, yet another campaign created by Crispin Porter ⫹ Bogusky. If I seem to
            be favoring these guys a bit in this section, sue me. I use a lot of Volkswagen in this book
            for similar reasons: VW is a company that figured out how to do print and outdoor long
            before anyone else did. CP⫹B happens to be one of the leading agencies in executing
            integrated campaigns and in the innovative use of media.
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 183

                                       Big Honkin’ Ideas                      183

               Of course, the creative team was across the street filming the
            whole thing to post on the Web. IKEA repeated the exercise for a
            store opening in another city, and this time someone dropped a
            dime to the local news and the event was covered from a helicopter
            overhead. Roughly 10 grand to pull off, a quarter mil of free air-
            time, serious buzz, and no TV commercials.
               With practice, you should be able to start thinking in big honkin’
            ideas like this more and more. Of course, not every job that slides
            cross your desk will require this type of thinking—just the really fun
            ones, the big ones, and of course, new business pitches. However, you
            may be able to create something big and cool out of a small print-
            and-radio assignment just by finding some nugget of a concept and
            blowing it up way beyond what’s been asked for.

            Try something naughty.
            I do not mean do a pee-pee joke. (Oh lordy, please, please . . . no
            pee-pee jokes. No fart jokes. No scatology. Please, just stop it.)
               What I am suggesting here is that you do something naughty.
            Maybe naughty isn’t the right word. How about controversial? My
            thesaurus also suggests: devilish, sneaky, disobedient, mischievous,
            willful, wayward, bad, or recalcitrant. Do something you’re not sup-
            posed to do. Break a rule of some kind. Come up with an idea that
            makes you say, “We can’t do that, can we?” That’s a sign it’s a strong
            idea. The other question to ask is: “Will somebody talk about this
            idea if we do it?”
               Sticking messages into dog poop at the park qualifies, I think, on
            both counts. It’s a controversial sort of idea somebody might talk
            about.
               Beaming an antigovernment message onto the side of city hall is
            naughty.
               Airing a free video on a hotel’s adult channel is naughty.
               Running a small-space ad with a headline “Fur Coat Storage
            Services” is naughty. Well, it is when you know the rich ladies who
            called the number got a recorded message from People for the
            Ethical Treatment of Animals about the cruelty of the fur business
            and how they should “donate” their fur for proper burial.
               In Warren Berger’s book Hoopla, CP⫹B’s Alex Bogusky
            observes, “If you’re about to spend advertising dollars on a cam-
            paign and you can’t imagine that anybody is going to write about it
            or talk about it, you might want to rethink it. It means you probably
            missed injecting a truth or social tension into it.”4
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp       1/2/08     10:09 AM      Page 184

            184                      “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

              Figure 8.4 The Economist’s signature red tells the reader whose poster
                    this is from 100 yards. And the pillars don’t get in the way.
                                     They hold the concept up.

               A truth. A social tension. Now we’re getting to the nut of it. Think
            of truth, or social tension, or naughtiness as the bad guy in a movie.
            Ever notice how the bad guy is usually a movie’s most interesting
            character? Kids wanna be Darth Vader, not Luke. On Halloween,
            I’ve never seen anybody wearing a Jamie Lee Curtis mask; it’s always
            Michael Myers. Bad is good. The bad guy disrupts. He changes things,
            makes them interesting. Bad means gettin’ some “Bom Chicka Wah
            Wah” from the Axe Effect or doing things in Vegas that have to stay
            there. Bad is why the Subservient Chicken is wearing a garter belt.*
               Do something devilish, disobedient, sneaky, mischievous, willful,
            wayward, bad, or recalcitrant. At every turn of the way, question
            authority.

            Try doing something counterintuitive with a medium.
            This is another form of naughtiness. Use a medium “incorrectly.”
              Write a 25-word outdoor board. Put your poster in exactly the
            wrong place, like they did with this one for the Economist
            (Figure 8.4).

            *The Subservient Chicken’s a long story, well reported in many other places. Google it.
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp      1/2/08    10:09 AM     Page 185

                                           Big Honkin’ Ideas                              185

              Why not use radio for something besides retail? What if you
            mailed your posters and posted your direct mail? What if you
            embedded a radio spot in your transit poster? What if you used the
            newspaper’s classifieds to sell a thought instead of a car? What if
            you used a huge outdoor board to do the work of a classified ad?

            If you do an ad, does it have to be a flat page?
            Try a pop-up, a gatefold, a scratch and sniff, a computer chip, some-
            thing, anything.
               Typically, liquor companies trot out these print extravaganzas dur-
            ing the holiday season, spicing their inserts with talking microchips
            and pop-up devices. But why wait for the holidays when other adver-
            tisers might be doing it? Also, there are less expensive tricks you can
            try. Sequential ads. Scratch-off concepts. Die cuts. Different paper
            stocks, acetate film. There’s even a magnetized paper now. What can
            you do with the ad itself to make it more than just an ad?
               Crispin Porter ⫹ Bogusky’s entire print buy for the MINI fea-
            tured stunts like the one pictured here (Figure 8.5). They had to;

                Figure 8.5 It’s hard to see in this reprinting, but CP⫹B bought the
                    center spread of Rolling Stone magazine and had the MINI
                  slaloming around orange-colored staples. The copy: “Find out
                      why a MINI handles the way it does at MINIUSA.com.”

            © 2007 MINI, a division of BMW of North America, LLC. All rights reserved. The MINI
            and BMW trademark, model names, and logo are registered trademarks.
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:09 AM    Page 186

            186                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Detroit was outspending them in magazines a hundred to one. So
            their stunts weren’t just a couple of one-off’s for the holidays;
            almost every single MINI ad was a stunt, each one basically an
            event held into a magazine with staples. One ad had peel-off decals
            to put on your MINI. Another featured a car-deodorizing pine tree.
            My favorite was a flattened cardboard milk carton inserted into the
            magazine. The copy invited you to reassemble it to look like an
            empty milk carton, which was just the excuse you needed to get in
            your MINI and motor.

            Figure 8.6 The F-15 on the other page is torching the editorial on this page.
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 187

                                       Big Honkin’ Ideas                    187

              One of the best events-in-a-magazine I’ve ever seen was a little
            two- by four-inch flip-picture book, pasted to the middle of a white
            page, with the words “The Golf TDi Diesel” printed on the cover.
            When you flipped the pages, you expected to see a little movie, a
            changing image of some kind. Instead, you saw a dashboard gas
            gauge with the needle staying, and staying, at “Full.” The needle
            never moved. This little gem from BMP DDB Needham in London
            was a thing of beauty.
              Your stunt doesn’t always have to involve inserts. Check out this
            cool ad for the U.S. Air Force from GSD&M (Figure 8.6). Dummy

                                  Figure 8.6 (Continued)
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 188

            188                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            editorial copy on the left side is burnt to a crisp by the afterburners
            on the F-15.
              Remember: Do something devilish, disobedient, sneaky, mischie-
            vous, willful, wayward, bad, or recalcitrant. At every turn of the way,
            question authority.

            Instead of doing an ad, change the product.
            You’re never going to be at the agency one day and get a job request
            saying, “Change the product.” But smart agencies are doing this
            more and more and are making a bunch of money for their clients in
            the process. Sometimes you’ll just stub your toe on an idea. And
            sometimes it can come out of an agency brainstorming session, as it
            did at GSD&M with the “DING!” product for Southwest Airlines.
               Inspired by the familiar flight-cabin “ding” that Southwest uses in
            its TV tagline (“You’re now free to move about the country”),
            DING! is a downloadable program that immediately lets a cus-
            tomer know (with a small ding!) when a low fare is available to a
            favorite destination. Clicking on the message takes a customer to
            Southwest’s online booking. So in addition to selling seats, it
            encourages customers to book online, which saves the customers
            and Southwest money.
               As you can see, DING! wasn’t an ad, but it made the client some
            serious money. Same thing happened at Burger King. It started with
            a video game developer asking Burger King if they wanted to buy
            some “signage” within a game. CP⫹B and Burger King renegoti-
            ated the deal and ended up with much more than just a BK logo
            way in the background of some fight scene: The King actually
            became a player in the game. Creative Director Bill Wright told me
            the success of this experiment led to bigger things: “After a year of
            development, three Xbox 360 games went on sale inside Burger
            King restaurants. So far [summer 2007], 3.2 million have been sold.
            And instead of just watching the King, people are playing him.
            Burger King has been turned into a legitimate game developer.”
               These are moneymaking ideas, not ads. Changing the product
            can even serve as an image campaign. Consider Molson Canadian’s
            problem. “A beer has to signal something about who you are,” said
            Wright in another conversation. “And when we found out our
            target audience thought Molson is the beer ‘my uncle drinks in
            the basement when he watches hockey,’ . . . we knew we had a
            problem.”
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM     Page 189

                                       Big Honkin’ Ideas                      189

               To reach their younger target, creatives came up with “Molson
            Twin Label technology.” Molson printed an additional label on the
            back of their bottles with one of 200 different horn-dog,
            testosterone-poisoned barroom “conversation starters,” all of them
            certain to thrill any 20-year-old boy:
              Let’s get out of these wet clothes.
              I’m not wearing any underwear.
              Guess where my tattoo is.
              Like we said back in Chapter 3, “Saying isn’t the same as being.”
            Molson didn’t run an ad saying, “We’re not the beer your uncle
            drinks in the basement.” By changing the product, they proved they
            weren’t.

            Do anything but an ad.
            In a recent interview on adcritic.com, Lee Clow said, “Everything is
            media.” As an example, he said the Apple stores now in malls across
            America are “the best ads Apple’s ever done.” Similarly, Alex
            Bogusky said a drink cup at Burger King can have as much reach as
            a commercial on the Super Bowl.
               Stores, cups—it’s all media, and it’s all canvas an ad person can
            use to paint a brand’s story. Clow might agree with my painting
            metaphor, given that he sees TBWA/Chiat becoming what he calls a
            “media arts company.” Media arts—that’s actually a pretty cool way
            to think about what we do. But the key word here, folks, is art. Just
            because some building has a flat side doesn’t mean we should put
            an ad there. If we do, we need to remember what Howard Gossage
            reminded us of back when we were discussing outdoor in Chap-
            ter 3: Our work, particularly in outdoor, must delight the people
            who see it. Delight them.
               This is the attitude I encourage you to adopt if you ever have to
            create any guerrilla advertising, a term Wikipedia defines as “an
            unconventional way of performing promotional activities on a very
            low budget.” It’s a form increasingly popular with both clients and
            creatives, the former liking its ability to pinpoint a target segment,
            the latter its possibilities. When done well, like this piece for
            Norwegian Cruise Line, guerrilla ads delight audiences (Figure 8.7).
            The very environment where the ad appears affects the way people
            interpret it, and because their ad guard is down, it has an additional
            element of surprise. But if it’s missing that element of art, it could
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:09 AM     Page 190

            190                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               Figure 8.7 What better place to tell potential cruisers about the easy
                    dress code aboard NCL than on their dry cleaning bags?

            feel more like corporate hijacking of the environment. In her book
            Advertising by Design, Robin Landa gets to this very point.

              Guerilla advertising is effective when it is entertaining. It is offensive
              when it accosts or seriously intrudes. As advertising creeps more and
              more into our environment, we must be judicious about its placement
              and its effect on popular culture and on people. Respecting people is
              critical.5
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 191

                                       Big Honkin’ Ideas                     191

               Don’t suck, people, is basically where I’m goin’ with this. And
            don’t let people make you suck, particularly in regard to outdoor
            and guerrilla advertising. This isn’t a medium people can switch off.
               One last thing: Unless you have something really important to
            tell me, please stay out of my bathroom stalls and off of my urinal
            pucks. Stuff like that—really any media being marketed by a
            vendor—has probably already lost its element of surprise anyway.
            The whole bathroom advertising gig reminds me of when my boys
            were little; they’d bring their fight to the outside of my bathroom
            door demanding that I immediately render judgment. Through the
            door I’d say, “Boys, can’t this wait?”
               Through the door I ask again today, can’t the wheels of capitalism
            wait long enough for me to take care of business here? Lordy.

            Don’t even do an ad. Create an event instead.
            Getting good PR for your client is one of the very best things you
            can do. Some of the most fantastic selling concepts I’ve ever seen
            weren’t ads per se; they were events.
               One was for Mothers Against Drunk Driving. To make their
            “ad,” they parked the wreckage of an actual car on the back of a
            flatbed truck and put it on display on a busy downtown sidewalk. It
            was a police car, one in which a Minnesota sheriff died because of a
            drunken driver. Below the wreckage was a plaque with a descrip-
            tion of the accident and the name of the law officer, a family man
            dead at the age of 36. No snappy headline. Just the ugly facts. And
            the car with its driver’s side door punched in three feet. Nobody in
            that car could have lived. You could see it for yourself, and you
            walked away mad.
               Another example that comes to mind is Diesel’s insane idea for
            marketing its Intimate Collection. I would love to have been in the
            conference room when they presented this idea.
               “Okay, basically, what we’re suggesting is we’re gonna have two
            pretty girls—both of whom we’ll name ‘Heidie’—and these two girls,
            they’re gonna steal a bunch of this new underwear you got, kidnap
            one of your sales managers, and then lock themselves in a hotel for
            five days. Consumers will be able to talk to the Heidies by phone and
            online. And we’ll broadcast the whole thing live on the Web.”
               Man . . . I’ve been in meetings where suggesting “Let’s run two
            newspaper ads” would put the account into review. But in this case,
            Diesel said yes, and their servers nearly melted down as customers
            jammed the lines trying to interact with the Heidies.
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp      1/2/08     10:09 AM     Page 192

            192                     “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               “Can you say my name on the air, Heidie?”
               “Heidie, will you please play my favorite song?”
               Everybody was in on the joke, and the entire promotion garnered
            massive PR because of its intelligent parodying of reality TV,
            MySpace, and the global fever dream of being famous for a
            Warholian 15 minutes. It was incredible.*
               Half of creating an event is the event itself; the other half is lever-
            aging it for all the public relations mojo you can get. Most of the
            ideas you’ve read about in this section were followed with a strong
            PR effort by the agency or the client’s PR firm. The thing is, when
            your ideas are this cool, they’re just as interesting as news as they
            are as advertising. For instance, I personally never saw the
            Starbucks coffee-cup-on-a-car-roof promotion; I only read about it
            later in the newspapers. Starbucks paid drivers to drive around
            town with one of their cups attached to their roof, and when
            passersby tried to alert the driver, they were handed a coupon for a
            free drink. The idea was cool, the event was cool, and, finally, just
            hearing about it was cool.

            Create something so cool you don’t have to pay
            people to watch it.
            The other day at a parent-teacher conference I overheard this nice
            lady describing a problem with her teen daughter.
               “Well, I went into her room—without knocking—and I caught
            her and her friends on the Internet looking at a video where a nice
            man in a suit talked about Verizon’s terrific variety of affordable
            calling plans and the nation’s widest coverage.”
               Okay, I’m kiddin’. Didn’t happen.
               The point is, people don’t go on the Internet looking for boring
            stuff. And if you think it’s difficult to get people to look at your spot
            on TV, it’s even tougher to get them to look at your viral spot on the
            Internet. Viral advertising is generally any Internet-driven promotion
            in the form of video clips, interactive Flash games, or SMS text mes-
            sages. The really good ones get passed along from one person to
            another and spread like global infection. Which is why I find it kind
            of funny whenever I hear someone say, “Oh, when we’re done makin’

            *Just so you know the conclusion, the siege came to an end when the son of Diesel
            founder Renzo Rosso cut a deal with the Heidies and freed the salesperson. The
            deal—which pulled the idea into other media—was to use the Heidies in a Diesel print
            campaign.
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 193

                                       Big Honkin’ Ideas                      193

            this commercial, we’re gonna have it go viral.” You decide to go viral
            about as much as the Beatles decided to “go famous.” Before any-
            thing viral happens, somebody has to do something extremely cool.
               I first saw Honda’s famous “Cog” commercial (Figure 5.5)
            through a link in an e-mail, as did millions of others. Same with
            Burger King’s “Subservient Chicken.”
               Then there was Ogilvy Toronto’s marvelous “Evolution” com-
            mercial for Dove, which rode a wave of mass Internet interest all
            the way to the top prize at Cannes (Figure 8.8). In this simple com-
            mercial, we see an ordinary-looking woman sit down in front of a
            camera. From the sides come the hands of makeup artists, which
            begin to touch her up, to groom her. The hairstylist’s hands follow;
            the lighting is similarly fussed over. A minute or so into it, this
            ordinary-looking woman is approaching cover girl material, and
            that’s when her image is transferred to computer. Here, even more
            radical makeovers morph her image into the totally fake “10” we
            see up on a billboard and then the video ends. Two supers come qui-
            etly onscreen with the message “No wonder our perception of
            beauty is distorted. Take part in the Dove Real Beauty Workshop
            for Girls. Visit campaignforrealbeauty.ca.”

                          Figure 8.8 From 0 to a “10” in 90 seconds.
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp       1/2/08     10:09 AM     Page 194

            194                     “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               The whole thing was set to a great piano track and, except for the
            words at the end, could have passed for a cool MTV video.
               Janet Kestin, Creative Director at Ogilvy Toronto, assured me
            they did not “decide” to go viral.
               “We really had no idea it was going to do what it did,” she said in
            an interview. “It started with the art director/writer, Tim Piper, post-
            ing it on YouTube and at the same time Dove sent out an e-mail
            blast. A couple of days was all it took before it was on everything
            from CNN.com to BBC, even talk shows in Korea. It was starting to
            get momentum, but the posting on YouTube and the PR push were
            the real catalysts.”
               It would seem we’re back to what Bogusky said earlier: “If you’re
            about to spend advertising dollars on a campaign and you can’t
            imagine that anybody is going to write about it or talk about it, you
            might want to rethink it. It means you probably missed injecting a
            truth or social tension into it.”
               Dove’s “Evolution” had both of those. Kestin’s partner, Nancy
            Vonk, adds: “As a society, we’re so celebrity-obsessed and
            appearance-obsessed. Dove’s Campaign for Real Beauty came at
            the moment when people were asking themselves, ‘Have we gone
            too far?’ It didn’t hurt that it was released right when it was
            Fashion Week in New York City and there were lots of news sto-
            ries about too-skinny models and all of that. To use Gladwell’s
            phrase, it really did seem like a tipping point.”*
               “Evolution” indeed had a truth and social tension built into it. It
            also had pretty much everything else we’ve been talking about
            through this entire book. A quick look back at all the things we’ve
            talked about so far convinces at least me that Dove’s “Evolution”
            was a big honkin’ idea that hit on every cylinder.
               Say something believable. Say something relevant. Be simple. Try not
               to look like an ad. Open strong. Have one theme. Show, don’t tell.
               Make sure your idea works fast. Reduce your number of moving parts.
               Find a villain. Tell the truth and run. Be provocative. Use simple lan-
               guage. Entertain throughout the spot. Leave a picture in the listener’s
               mind. End dramatically. Don’t suck. And create something so cool you
               don’t have to pay people to see it.

              “Evolution” did all of those things and more. What’s not in
            “Evolution” is also important: There’s no spokesperson telling you

            *Malcom Gladwell’s best seller The Tipping Point is good reading.
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:09 AM    Page 195

                                         Big Honkin’ Ideas                           195

            Dove is soft on your skin. Quoted in Life After the 30-Second Spot,
            Chuck Porter seems to agree that viral has its own rules.

              [S]o far, the only two ways I can see to get people to even pay atten-
              tion to you in the interactive world are to offer information or enter-
              tainment. And if you really have dreams of viral, entertainment will
              always win. Imagine two sites. One has really useful information on
              caring for delicate fabrics. The other has the funniest joke you’ve
              heard since high school. Which one are you going to send to all your
              friends? . . . People are very tuned into the fact that whatever you for-
              ward to your e-mail list says something about you. And hardly any-
              one would ever send a salesman over to a friend’s house.6

            Invite the customer to play.
            Instead of just saying something to passive viewers, why not make
            them active participants in your communication? Have them do
            something—something fun.
               Involving the customer in the life of the brand is more than just a
            fun tactic, it’s the way more things will be done in the future.
            Advertising was once exclusively the client’s game; they broadcast
            their message to the masses and then waited to count the money.
            What was once a client-push strategy is becoming consumer-pull;
            particularly with younger customers who are increasingly experi-
            encing brands through channels that are two-way. (“Well, well, Mr.
            Madison Avenue Man, it appears the Alberto Guardiani Italian
            goatskin loafer is now on the other foot.”) The attachment of
            younger people to their mobile phones, to the Web, and to texting is
            just the beginning of a sea change in advertising, where the metrics
            for success will be less about the number of “consumer impres-
            sions” and more about consumer involvement. The Web is, of
            course, the ultimate interactive medium, and the possibilities it
            offers are beyond what this little volume can hope to cover. But
            interactivity is not limited to the online world. IKEA’s “Steal me”
            event we talked about earlier? That’s a great example of inviting
            the customer to play. Or when Mars (the candy people) asked view-
            ers to help them come up with their next color for M&M’s? Very
            cool. Audi asked America to help them find a missing vehicle.
            Doritos asked viewers to submit finished commercials to air on the
            Super Bowl. Dove posted a billboard asking passersby to vote on
            their idea of beauty by using their cell phones, and then posted the
            results of the poll in real time.
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 196

            196                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               KFC ran a TV spot with a promotional code buried in a single
            frame. Meanwhile, in a separate print and Web campaign, they told
            viewers to play back the spot frame by frame on their digital video
            recorders to find the code and its accompanying coupon. (The fact
            that viewers actually went through all this trouble to save a few pen-
            nies on something called a “KFC Snacker” probably says less about
            the penury of today’s youth than it does about the potency of mod-
            ern hydroponically grown marijuana.)

                                   PARTING THOUGHTS.
            The days of solving business problems by doing an ad or shooting a
            spot are over. In an interview, Rob Schwartz of TBWA/Chiat
            agreed and encouraged ad students to start seeing assignments on a
            much larger scale: “It’s not just ‘I can do one good print ad.’ It’s ‘I
            can do a holistic, fully integrated, major, big chunky thought that is
            media infinite.’ It can run on TV, it can run in print, it can run in
            someone’s dinner conversation, the public relations people can
            work with it.”7
               In closing, I give the advice Mark Fenske offers: “If you are near
            a big idea, get out of its way. Lay flat.”
15934_Sullivan_c08_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:09 AM   Page 197
15934_Sullivan_c09_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM    Page 198

                     Figure 9.1 An author of a book on creativity wrote:
                   “An idea is nothing more or less than a new combination of
                       old elements.” And then there’s . . . this, an ad for
                                       Sony’s Playstation.
15934_Sullivan_c09_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:10 AM    Page 199

                                                9
                   “Toto, I Have a Feeling
                        We’re Not in
                     McCann-Erickson
                        Anymore.”
                          Working out past the edge

            PICASSO PROBABLY LEARNED TO DRAW a realistic head before he
            began putting both eyes on the same side of the nose.
               Getting the eyes in the right place has been the subject of the first
            chapters of this book. Once you learn how, it’s time to go further
            out. So take everything I’ve said so far and just chuck it. Every rule,
            every guideline, just give ’em the old heave-ho.
               Let’s assume you know how to sell a vacuum cleaner in a small-
            space ad with a well-crafted headline. Let’s assume you know how
            to put a great visual idea on paper and how to come up with the sort
            of idea that makes colleagues who see it go, “Hey, that is cool.”
               Doyle Dane art director, Helmut Krone, had this to say on the
            subject:

              If people tell you, “That’s up to your usual great standard,” then you
              know you haven’t done it. “New” is when you’ve never seen before
              what you’ve just put on a piece of paper. You haven’t seen it before
              and nobody else in the world has ever seen it. . . . It’s not related to
              anything that you’ve seen before in your life. And it’s very hard to
              judge the value of it. You distrust it, and everybody distrusts it. And
15934_Sullivan_c09_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM    Page 200

            200                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

              very often, it’s somebody else who has to tell you that the thing has
              merit, because you have no frame of reference.1

               There’s going to come a point in your job when the compasses
            don’t work. When you’re so far out there that up ceases to be up,
            west isn’t west, and “Hey, great ad” is replaced with “What the hell
            is this?” Perhaps this is how the lay of the land looked when my
            friends Jelly Helm and Jamie Barrett (then of Wieden ⫹ Kennedy)
            came up with this ad for Nike (Figure 9.2).
               What rules, what advice in this book could possibly have led a
            creative team to come up with this? None that I can think of. There
            is no bridge across some chasms. Only leaps of imagination can
            make it across. We’re not talking about small increments of experi-
            mental thinking anymore, or reformulations or permutations, but
            entire new languages. New ways of looking at things.
               Once you’ve learned to draw a realistic head, this creative out-
            land is where you’re going to need to go. This point is important
            enough that I’ve devoted this whole, albeit short, chapter to it. The
            last rule is this: Once you’ve learned the rules, throw them out.
               Any further advice I give at this point is counterproductive to the
            creative process. It’s as if I’m looking over the artist Jackson
            Pollock’s shoulder saying, “I think you need another splat of blue
            over there.”
               But even out in deep space, there is one rule you are obliged to
            obey. You must be relevant.
               You’re never going to get so far out there that you can dare not
            to be relevant to your audience. No matter how creative you think
            an idea is, if it has no meaning to your audience, you don’t have an
            ad. You may have art. But you don’t have an ad.

                     “LOVE, HONOR, AND OBEY YOUR HUNCHES.”
                                                              —Leo Burnett
            Bernbach said, “Execution becomes content in a work of genius.”
               It is never more true than out here, where concepts can some-
            times be all execution without the traditional sales message. To have
            such an execution succeed, you’re going to need to know your cus-
            tomers better than the competition. You’re going to need to know
            what they like, how they think, and how they move through their
            world. If your idea reflects these inner realities, you’ll succeed,
            because your viewer’s going to think, “This company knows me.”
15934_Sullivan_c09_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 201

            “Toto, I Have a Feeling We’re Not in McCann-Erickson Anymore        201

                      Figure 9.2 Nobody’s broken more rules than Nike.

              Here’s a good example of how keen awareness of the customer,
            an intuition, and incredible production values colluded to make
            advertising history.
              Consider the following TV script. There is no music.

                 BANKER: “There’s a lot of paperwork here. There’s always
                 paperwork when you buy a house. First one says that you lose
15934_Sullivan_c09_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08    10:10 AM     Page 202

            202                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                  the house if you don’t make your payments. You probably don’t
                  want to think about that but . . . you do have to sign it. Next says
                  the property is insured for the amount of the note. And you sign
                  that in the lower left corner. This pretty much says that
                  nobody’s got a gun to your head . . . that you’re entering the
                  agreement freely. Next is the house is free of termites. Last one
                  says that the house will be your primary residence and that you
                  won’t be relying on rental income to make the payments. I hope
                  you brought your checkbook. This is the fun part. I say that all
                  the time, though most people don’t think so. (Chuckle.)”

               This was one of the TV spots for John Hancock Financial
            Services that swept every awards show at the time. Accompanying
            this voice-over were images of a young married couple buying their
            first house as they sat in front of a loan officer’s desk. The scenes
            were cut with quick shots of type listing different investment ser-
            vices offered by John Hancock.
               I’m sure that, on paper, the board looked a little flat. In fact, it
            probably still looks flat here. But this is precisely my point. In the
            hands of a director other than Pytka or a less seasoned creative
            team, this little vignette could have been flat.
               But what made this storyboard work was the gut feeling the cre-
            atives had for the cotton-mouthed, shallow-breathing tension some
            people have upon buying a first home. They successfully brought
            the full force of this emotion alive and kicking onto the TV screen.
               There were no special effects, no comic exaggerations, no visual
            puns, nor any other device I may have touched on in this book. Just
            an intuition two guys had, successfully captured on film. Check it
            out. It may be hard to find online, but it’s worth a viewing.
               While you’re in the archives, look also for a spot called
            “Interview” for United Airlines, done by Bob Barrie and Stuart
            D’Rozario (Figure 9.3). Nothing “clever” happens in this spot,
            either. It just shows a guy shave, put on a suit, and fly to some far-
            away city for a job interview. There’s no dialogue, and if there’s any
            drama to the spot it’s when he realizes he put on mismatching
            shoes. But the interview goes well, and he gets a call that makes him
            do a small jump for joy in the street. As we see him sleep in the
            plane on his way home, the voice-over says, “Where you go in life is
            up to you. There’s one airline that can take you there. United. It’s
            time to fly.”
               If none of this exactly blows your socks off, again, that’s the point.
            What makes this spot so different and so good is the understated
15934_Sullivan_c09_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:10 AM    Page 203

            “Toto, I Have a Feeling We’re Not in McCann-Erickson Anymore           203

               Figure 9.3 Set to Gershwin’s classic “Rhapsody in Blue,” the United
             campaign was all in the execution. This frame’s from a spot called “Rose.”

            illustration style used in place of film. Go online somewhere, find the
            spot, and watch it. Like Bernbach said, “Execution can become con-
            tent.” How you say something can become much more important
            than what you say.
               Mark Fenske told me, “You cannot logic your way to an audi-
            ence’s heart.” People are not rational. We like to think we are, but
            we’re not. If you look unflinchingly at your own behavior, you may
            agree that few of the things you do, you do for purely rational rea-
            sons. Consumers, being people, are no different. Few purchases are
            made for purely logical reasons. Most people buy things for emo-
            tional reasons and then, after the fact, figure out a logical explana-
            tion for their purchase decision.
               So that’s the other piece of advice: Trust your intuitions. Trust
            your feelings. As you try to figure out what would sell your product
            to somebody else, consider what would make you buy it. Dig inside.
            If you have to, write the damn strategy after you do the ad. Forget
            about the stinkin’ focus groups and explore the feelings you have
            about the product.
               If an idea based on these feelings makes sense to you, it’ll proba-
            bly make sense to others. So sort out the feelings you have about
15934_Sullivan_c09_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 204

            204                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            the product and then articulate them in the most memorable way
            you can. Someone once told me that the things about myself that
            are the most personal are also the most universal. Trust your
            instincts. They are valid.

                  BUILD A SMALL, COZY FIRE WITH THE RULE BOOKS.
                              START WITH THIS ONE.
            It’s been said there are no new ideas, only rearrangements. Picasso
            himself said, “All art is theft.” Historian Will Durant wrote,
            “Nothing is new except arrangement.”
               I’ve used logic like this to defend ads I’ve written that were
            sound and good, but weren’t new ideas. I think I was wrong. Instead,
            I think it’s better to believe there really are whole new ways of com-
            municating, ways that nobody has discovered yet. I urge you to look
            for them.
               In 1759, Dr. Samuel Johnson wrote, “The trade of advertising is
            now so near to perfection that it is not easy to propose any
            improvement.”2 That was written in 1759, folks; probably with a
            quill pen. I don’t want to make the same mistake with this book. So
            I repeat: Learn the rules in this book. Then break them. Break them
            all. Find something new. It’s out there.
15934_Sullivan_c09_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 205
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:10 AM    Page 206

              Figure 10.1 As it turns out, there are actually quite a few things “more
               powerful than an idea whose time has come.” There’s the marketing
              manager, the product manager, the research department, the CEO, the
             CFO, and that loud, opinionated guy who shows up at every focus group.
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 207

                                            10
                              Only the Good
                               Die Young
                         The enemies of advertising

            IN A PERFECT WORLD, IT WORKS LIKE THIS. You come up with a
            great ad. You take it over to the client, and they agree it solves the
            problem and approve it for production.
               In all my years in the business, this has happened a total of three
            times. What usually happens is your ad dies. I don’t know why it is
            this way, but it is. Get ready for it. It doesn’t matter how good your
            ad is, it can die. I once watched a client kill a campaign between sips
            of coffee. Two months in the making, and he killed it all—every TV
            spot, every magazine ad, and every newspaper ad—with one chirpy
            line.
               “Good first effort.”
               The thing to remember is, clients are perfectly within their rights
            to do this. We are in a service business. And our service isn’t over
            when we present something we like. It’s over when we present
            something they like. The trick is to do both, the first time.
               There are good clients out there. Bless them. When you have one,
            serve them well. Work nights for them. Work weekends. You will
            produce the best work of your career on their behalf.
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:10 AM    Page 208

            208                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               And then there’s the other kind: the really tough clients. I’m not
            talking about the ones who hold your feet to the fire and push for
            greatness. This is about the ones who misbehave. Fortunately, good
            clients outnumber them. But the bad ones are out there, and you
            need to be able to spot them. Here are some of the kinds I’ve run
            into in my career. Let me rephrase. Here are some of the kinds that
            have run over me in my career.
               There isn’t a lot you can do about them. They’re like mines
            buried in the field of advertising. Try not to step on any.

                                  THE SISYPHUS ACCOUNT.
            Those familiar with Greek mythology know Sisyphus, the king of
            Corinth. The gods sentenced him to an eternity in hell, pushing a
            large rock up a hill. He’d get it to the top, only to watch it roll to the
            bottom, where his job awaited him again.
               So how do you spot an account like Sisyphus Corp.? By the smell
            of foamcore—that stiff board that agencies use to mount ads for
            presentations. You’ll notice the smell the minute you get off the
            agency elevator. They won’t tell you what it is during the interview,
            but you’ll find out soon enough.
               The creative director comes in and says, “I’m putting you on Sisy
            Corp. You’re perfect for them.” You’d be excited about it, were it
            not for the pallid look of the passing secretary who overhears your
            assignment.
               Pretty soon you start to catch on. One day you’re walking down
            the hall and you notice you’ve never seen an ad for Sisyphus dis-
            played up on the wall. Not one. Then you see the delivery guys from
            the local art supplies company; they’re in the lobby again with
            another cart full of foamcore. (Weren’t they just here yesterday?)
               Then one day you’re looking for markers in the storeroom and
            you find 200 dead storyboards for Sisyphus, all of them great ideas,
            all dead as doornails and hidden in the corner like Henry VIII’s
            closet of heads.
               When they hired you, they told you Sisyphus Corp. was the next
            VW. The next Energizer Bunny. “We’re turning it around.” But now
            you’re starting to understand: Corporations like Sisyphus don’t
            want to actually run advertising. They want to look at it. They want
            to talk about it. They want to have meetings about it. But they won’t
            run an ad. Not this year. anyway.
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:10 AM    Page 209

                                   Only the Good Die Young                         209

               “If we were to run advertising—we’re not, but if we were to run
            an ad—could you show us what it might look like?”
               You’ve just been handed a shovel and told to feed the Foamcore
            Furnace. You will work as hard as somebody whose ads are actually
            being published. You’ll spend the same late nights and long week-
            ends and order in the same pizza. But when the year is over, you’ll
            have nothing to show for it but some ads mounted on foamcore and
            a pizza gut.
               This kind of account, while it can drive you crazy, isn’t the worst.
            (More on them in a minute.) They’re like blind giants, a Cyclops
            with something under his contact lens. They’re big. They have
            money. And if they lumber about and head in the wrong direction, it
            hardly matters. As long as they make their numbers, they don’t care.
            They’ve lost the entrepreneurial spirit. Winning isn’t important. Not
            losing is.
               There isn’t much you can do about this kind of account. There’s
            an old saying: “The only way out is through.” Sometimes it’s best
            simply to feed the beast its daily minimum requirement of concepts
            and then sneak out to a movie when the Foamcore Gods aren’t
            hungry. Call it “paying your dues.” After you’ve put in a few months
            papering the walls of your client’s meeting rooms, appeal to your
            creative director. Show him your battle scars. If he’s any good, he’ll
            occasionally put a fresh team in front of Sisyphus’s rock.
               Sisyphus isn’t the worst kind of account. Not by a long shot.
            There’s another enemy of good advertising. Fear.

                                     THE MEAT PUPPET.
            A very talented woman named Lois Korey, an ad star from the
            1960s, described this kind of account:

              Clients seem to get the advertising they deserve. The good ones,
              they’re risk takers. They’re willing to risk failures for extraordinary
              success. . . . The bad clients? Fear dribbles down from the top. No
              one says so, in so many words, but you know no risks will be toler-
              ated, no rules will be broken, that mediocrity is the measure by which
              your work will be weighed.1

              Fear dribbles down from the top, says Ms. Korey. The Chinese
            have a more colorful phrase: “A fish stinks from the head.”
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 210

            210                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               You can actually smell it on the vice presidents, the fear. No
            amount of roll-on is gonna cover up their terror of the boss. It may
            be their boss, or their boss’s boss—it doesn’t matter.
               But the boss has done a terrible thing to these vice presidents. He
            has put them in charge of something they’re not in charge of. The
            nameplate outside their cubicle may sport words like “Assistant
            Director of Marketing.” But they are not directing marketing or
            anything else, for that matter. They are, in effect, meat puppets.
               Invisible strings, thin but powerful, dangle down from manage-
            ment and are attached to every part of their bodies. Everything
            these guys do, everything they think, every memo they write, every
            decision they don’t put off, will be second-guessed.
               When you’re a meat puppet, what you do is say “No.” An ad
            lands on your desk, and that invisible string connected to your hand
            makes you reach for the big NO stamp, pulls it back over the ad,
            and wham!
               “NO!”
               I have seen fear completely unravel a meat puppet.
               She was the director of marketing for a large corporation whose
            name you’d recognize. She needed a TV spot, just one 30-second
            spot, for a new product being introduced the following spring. It
            was a great product. It deserved a big, wonderful introductory spot.
            We worked hard and presented an idea we believed was very good.
               We flew in. Shook hands. Found a room with an easel, did our
            setup, and unveiled. She looked at the storyboard, looked at her
            notebook, then wrote something down. (When clients do this, I
            always assume it’s: “Begin new agency search immediately.”) She
            looked up and said, “I just don’t like it.”
               The strategy wasn’t the problem. How we were saying it wasn’t
            the problem.
               “I just don’t like it.”
               Good clients are allowed this. If they’re buying good work most
            of the time, well, they deserve to have those simple human reserva-
            tions we all feel now and then. We decide to let her play the “Just
            don’t like it” card. Fine. We go back. Time is running out, so we
            bring three storyboards to the next meeting. Luckily we’re on a
            streak and all three are good. We’d have been happy to go with any
            one.
               “I just don’t like it.”
               “All three?”
               “I just don’t like it.”
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:10 AM   Page 211

                                   Only the Good Die Young                      211

               “What is it you don’t like?”
               “I can’t say.” And then she said the one thing all the really bad
            clients say sooner or later. “I’ll know it when I see it.”
               Copywriter and author Dick Wasserman said this phrase is tanta-
            mount to a general telling his armies, “March off in all directions,
            and when I see where one of you is headed, I’ll have a better fix on
            where I’d like the rest of you to go.”
               And so we marched off in all directions. Meeting after meeting
            was adjourned with, “I just don’t like it.” The boards piled up. After
            a while, we didn’t bother to fly in for meetings and started e-mailing
            scripts, always getting the same answer.
               Some 25 boards passed before her. And 25 died. I assure you, we
            didn’t give up. It was a good product. A fallow field lay before us.
            We presented good work right up to the end.
               “I just don’t like it.”
               Time began to run out. Directors’ January schedules were filling
            up. The media was bought and the client was panicking. Client panic
            sometimes works in the agency’s favor. Not this time. She asked for
            more. In the final phone meeting, the agency simply refused to pro-
            vide any more boards.
               And the client unraveled. I mean, she completely fell apart.
               I remember listening to her voice on the speakerphone, hearing it
            begin to waver. She began to cry and then, God help me, beg like a
            junkie for more work.
               She had become addicted to indecision.
               “Come on! It doesn’t even have to be a 30. Gimme a stinkin’ 15.
            I’ll take a 15! You got to have some 15s! Oh baby, baby, come to
            momma with another board.” (Okay, she didn’t say exactly that,
            but . . . she said exactly that.) I’d never seen anything like it. It got
            worse, too.
               Somehow, around board number 29, she bought something. The
            agency wasn’t proud of the piece. We were just holding our noses,
            hoping to simply produce the thing and pray we would prevail on
            the next assignment. A second-tier director was chosen. A location
            in Miami was scouted and approved. There was a listless prepro
            meeting. Sets built. The team assembled in Florida the night before
            the cameras rolled. And the phone rang.
               In the 11th hour, in the 59th minute, and at the tail end of the 59th
            second, the client’s antiperspirant failed again. “I just don’t like it.”
               The agency was forced to come up with a new concept and do it
            under the constraints of an existing set and a locked-off budget.
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 212

            212                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Which is a lot like being told to build a plane, and here’s a coffee
            can, a crayon, and an old copy of Sports Illustrated. It was insane. It
            was like that famous line from journalist Bill Mellor: “We are sorry.
            But the editor’s indecision is final.”
               These incredible dervish-like turnarounds are known as “doing a
            360˚.” It’s like doing a 180˚, but twice. It could be argued that this
            client did a 540˚ or even a 720˚. (A 900˚ was once observed in
            Brussels, but no verification was available as this book went to
            press.)
               The agency had to go back to the drawing board yet again. This
            time, getting the idea took just 10 minutes. The tired writer and the
            dispirited art director walked to the end of a nearby pier and just
            sat there looking out at the ocean.
               Idea number 30 limped into the writer’s mind like a sick dog with
            its ribs showing, and the writer said, “Okay, what if we did this?”
               The art director looked at the dog. The dog looked up at the art
            director.
               “Fine.”
               They took their sick little animal of an idea and walked it back
            down the dock toward the nearest phone.
               The client loved it.
               It should come as no surprise that the final spot sucked. It was so
            bad we were trying to change channels on it during the final editing
            session. “See what else is on,” someone would say. What is surpris-
            ing is how the client later decided they didn’t like it and blamed the
            agency. “Why aren’t our commercials as good as the work you do
            for your other clients?”
               The spot never aired. I swear this happened.
               There is a list I’ve seen posted on bulletin boards in many agen-
            cies. One of those jokes that get photocopied and passed around
            until the type decays. This was the list:

              THE SIX PHASES OF AN ADVERTISING PROJECT
               1. Enthusiasm
               2. Disillusionment
               3. Panic
               4. Search for the guilty
               5. Punishment of the innocent
               6. Praise and honors for the nonparticipants
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:10 AM   Page 213

                                   Only the Good Die Young                      213

               What was once a joke tacked to a bulletin board had become
            grim reality. What began with enthusiasm ended as a new agency
            search.
               Funny thing, though. While the account did leave the agency, a
            month later we heard the woman was fired.
               And, wouldn’t you know it, in her absence the client’s advertising
            improved. Which is always a little hard to take. I mean, the mature
            thing to do is wash the blood off your hands, wave good-bye to an
            account, and wish them the best. But you secretly wish your old girl-
            friend, after she dumps you, ends up dealing crack from a culvert or
            pushing a mop at the Bun ’N’ Burger. Currently, the on-the-job life
            expectancy of the average chief marketing officer is a scant 23
            months2 before they’re fired and replaced by the next one (who
            always has his own ideas, if not his own agency). This often means
            the only steady hand on the rudder of a brand is the ad agency’s
            junior account person.
               I had another client who was a meat puppet, working in a com-
            pany run by fear. He was about as far down the corporate food
            chain as you could get—cubicle plankton. He even looked the part:
            that pale-white kind of guy who always gets killed in the first five
            minutes of a movie. Yet, to get an ad approved, you had to run it by
            this guy. And a bullet from his ratty little Saturday night special was
            as deadly as any other.
               He was perhaps the tensest person I ever met. One morning, he
            was seen standing in front of the company coffee machine holding
            an empty cup, growling through clenched teeth, “Brew, god-
            dammit.” He had such high blood pressure, we worried that if he
            sustained even a paper cut, arterial spray would redden the ceiling.
               But as scared as he was, he had a little power game he ran. It was
            brilliant. Whenever you presented ads to him for his approval, he
            wouldn’t look at you. Or the ads. Wouldn’t look at all. He’d just
            stare down at his legal pad in front of him.
               There you were, having taken a two-hour plane ride, lugging your
            portfolio in and out of cabs to arrive in his conference room. You
            did your setup and then presented the ads, ta-da! . . . to the top of his
            head. And if it was a visual concept, it drove you crazy. Because you
            found yourself having to use words to explain an image that you
            came up with to avoid using words in the first place.
               He, too, was a meat puppet. Unable to make any decision without
            imagined repercussions from above, he chose to make none and,
            instead, passed his decision on to the next guy up the food chain.
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 214

            214                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

              There is nothing you can do about a meat puppet. Your boss is
            going to have to go above him, to whoever’s yanking his strings. Such
            a decision is not yours to make, and you’ll need one of your higher-
            ups to talk with one of theirs. Sometimes it works. You may discover
            the client culture isn’t, in fact, fear-based and that your contact per-
            son is living in a backwater of fear he created on his own.

                                       PABLUM PARK.
            It’s a 10 o’clock meeting on Monday morning at Martini, Yesman &
            Longlunch. Coats come off and hands are shaken. Coffee poured
            and ties flattened. Everybody’s excited because the client, the big
            regional power company, wants a new campaign.
               “Okay,” asks the agency, “about what?”
               “Well, just about us. You know. Us.”
               “Okay, but what about . . . us?”
               “We care.”
               “You care?”
               “We care.”
               “You care about what?”
               “We just . . . care.”
               “Okay, I get the caring. I get it. But what is it you care about?”
               “Why do we have to care about anything in particular? Just a
            general sort of caring, I think, would be fine. In fact, Dick here was
            just saying on the way to the agency how that would be a workable
            theme-slogan sort of thing—‘We Care.’”
               Dick nods, sagely.
               Uh-oh. It’s a client with absolutely nothing to say. You are now
            entering Pablum Park. Abandon all relevance, ye who enter here.
               A power company is a good example of this kind of client.
            There’s nothing they can say without ticking customers off. Why
            they advertise at all is beyond me. Where else are you going to
            “shop” for electricity? (“Oh, I think I’ll use that plug over there.”)
            Many hospitals and health care plans have the same problem. They
            can’t say, “Our doctors are better than their doctors.” They can’t say.
            “We cost less.” They can, however, say, “We care.”
               So the Pablum Machine is turned on, and everything begins to
            run together in a saccharine slurry of Caring and Sharing and
            People Helping People. In fact, Pablum Park is populated entirely
            by “People People®.”
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:10 AM    Page 215

                                    Only the Good Die Young                         215

               “We’re not just a giant corporation. We’re People People®
            Helping People.”
               In Pablum Park, the police are “People Protecting People from
            People.” Morticians are “Living People Helping Dead People.” And
            lawyers are “People, Trying to Be People, Trying People.”
               If you watch even an hour of television, you’ll see many commer-
            cials spouting drivel. Peel away the bluster and bombast, the jingles
            and clichés, and you’ll find drivel. Nothing of substance. Words that
            sort of sound like you should be paying attention to them, but are
            ultimately empty.
               The best drivel I’ve ever read was in a wonderful parody called
            Patriotic Spot—60 Seconds, by Ellis Weiner. I reprint it here in
            abbreviated form.
              You’re waking up, America. It’s morning—and you’re waking up to
              live life like you’ve never lived it before. Say hello to a whole new
              way of being awake, America. Say hello to us. . . .
                  We’re watching you, America. We’re watching you when you
              work—because, America, you work hard. And we know that after-
              ward you’ve got a mighty big thirst. Not just a thirst for the best beer
              you can find. But a thirst for living. A thirst for years of experience.
              America, you’re thirsty. . . .
                  America, say hello to something new. Say hello to quality. Quality
              you can see. Quality you can feel. Quality you can say hello to. (How
              do you spell “quality,” America? Real quality—quality you can
              trust? The same way we’ve been spelling it for over a hundred and
              fifty years.) . . .
                  We’re Number One. You’re Number One. You’re a winner,
              America. And we know what you’re thinking. We know how you
              feel. How do we know? Because we take the time to tell you. We
              take the time to care.
                  And it pays off. We’re here, America. And the next time you’re
              here—the next time we can tell you who we are and what we do—
              we’ll be doing what we do best.3

                You’re not completely without hope with this kind of client. But
            it’ll take some work on your part. Every client has a story. Even the
            big, ugly ones with names like “Syntheti-Corp” have a story that can
            be made relevant and meaningful to the average reader.
                International Paper’s trade campaign by Ogilvy & Mather back
            in the 1980s is a good example. International was a faceless corpora-
            tion that made a product not famous for brand loyalty—paper.
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:10 AM   Page 216

            216                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

             Figure 10.2 Long-copy ads can be great. Even if a customer doesn’t read
                 every word, they make it look like the company has a lot to offer.

               Yet their campaign of award-winning ads was exquisitely read-
            able (Figure 10.2). Above a spread filled with long, well-written
            copy were headlines like: “How to improve your vocabulary.” Or
            “How to enjoy poetry.” Each ad was authored by a marquee name
            like James Dickey or Kurt Vonnegut. And at the end of the ads, the
            copy seamlessly brought you around to International’s take on the
            deal: “We believe in the power of the printed word.”
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 217

                                  Only the Good Die Young                 217

                                  Figure 10.2 (Continued)

                              THE KONCEPT KRUSHER 2000®.
            This actually happened.
              After several weeks of work, we finished a campaign for a large
            account and presented it to the client. They approved it, “pending
            research.”
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:10 AM    Page 218

            218                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                The account guys sent the boards to an advertising research firm
            retained by the client. A week later, the results came back. We’d
            scored okay with the traditional focus group tests. But we’d failed
            the “Andrea” test and had to start all over.
                “What is the ‘Andrea’ test?” I asked the client.
                With a straight face, she said, “Well, the thing is, we give your
            storyboards to a guy there at the research place. And he and
            another guy, they take it into a room and they close the door and
            then come out about, oh, three hours later with the results. And we
            know if your spot works. Yours didn’t. I’m sorry.”
                “But what did they do in there?”
                “The research firm tells us that’s proprietary.”
                “Pro . . . can I talk to this ‘Andrea’?”
                “‘Andrea’ is just the name for the test. There is no Andrea and
            the methodology is proprietary, as I’ve said. They don’t have to tell
            us what they do in there. The results they come out with always
            seem to be right on the money.”
                I stood there, blinking. The client, I’m sure, thought I was trying to
            think of some counterargument. But what I was thinking about was
            social work. (“I like people. I could help someone, maybe a little kid.
            It would be nice to get away. Peru or something. Maybe a little shack.
            Wouldn’t be so bad.”)
                I came to in the cab on the way to the airport, holding a fat spiral
            notebook full of all the things wrong with my ads, courtesy of
            “Andrea.”
                Clients who rely on test results to approve work will always be
            with us. There’s no escaping it. That’s the good news. The bad news
            is, with some clients, research will kill all of your work all the time.
                A few large corporations have whole floors devoted to
            advertising-slash-research, and they have it down to a system. They
            feed your storyboards into one end of a process that’s very much
            like a machine, with a name like, I don’t know, “Koncept Krusher
            2000.” As your campaign goes through the device, you hear all kinds
            of nasty things happening . . . (“It’s negative!” Muffled sounds. “We
            can’t say that.” Unidentified thwacking noise. “Why can’t they all be
            happy?”) . . . and what comes out the other end you wouldn’t want
            to air on a clothesline, much less network television.
                The really bad news is that there isn’t a thing you can do about it.
            Once these huge research machines are in place, they’re usually
            there to stay. Somebody somewhere is making a lot of money off
            this research (and it isn’t the client). No good idea will ever get out
            alive. Generally, it’s the older, larger clients who’ve been advertising
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 219

                                  Only the Good Die Young                    219

            for years that have an overheated K/K 2000 down in the basement,
            running day and night.
               I worked for several clients like this, where I think I did some
            of the best work of my career. But you’ve never seen it. On one
            particularly baneful project I remember, the Krusher must’ve
            been set on “high” because it went through hundreds, literally
            hundreds, of storyboards.
               After I burned out on the project, the agency threw other people
            at the snapping jaws of the research machine. And then another
            team. And another. A full year later, the Krusher spit out this tepid
            little storyboard that both research and the client had approved.
               There on the conveyer belt lay the TV spot—a trembling, pathetic
            thing that did not like being looked at directly. A sort of marketing
            Frankenstein—chunks of different departmental agendas and man-
            dates, all sewn together by focus groups and researchers into some-
            thing that looked like a TV spot but was, in fact, an abomination. We
            should have hammered a spike through its heart right there.
               Koncept Krushers can be bigger machines than just a client’s
            research department. The whole company may, in fact, be struc-
            tured to blowtorch new ideas. This sounds cynical, I know, but I’ve
            seen it. I’ve stood right next to these furnaces myself and felt the
            licking of the flames.
               Try this on.
               The client in question was one of those Sisyphus accounts I
            described earlier. A big Fortune 500 company. Huge. The kind that
            asks for tons of stuff that’s always due the next morning and you
            find out later it’s for a product they’re thinking about introducing
            10 years from now.
               So, anyway, this poor art director is stuck on a Sisy Corp type of
            account. She doesn’t know this, so the day she gets a job for a big
            TV commercial, she’s excited, right?
               Well, she and her partner begin working on it. After a vast
            amount of work, they have a couple cool ideas. I mean some really
            smart things that also happen to be potential award winners (or
            “podium wobblers,” as they’re called in Britain).
               Cut to next scene, meeting number 1 with the client—all of their
            ideas are dead. The reason? Doesn’t matter. (You’ll see.)
               So they get to work on another series of ideas to present in meet-
            ing number 2. Days later, there’s excitement in the creative depart-
            ment, rejuvenation. “We’ve done it again!”
               Time wipe: It’s meeting number 3. The client opens the meeting
            by announcing they’ve changed the strategy.
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 220

            220                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               Okay, here’s where we cut to that movie cliché—the clock hands
            spinning ’round and ’round, the calendar pages flying off the wall.
            The changes keep coming in. The client doesn’t like the idea. Or
            they cut the budget. Or they change the product, or they change the
            strategy. One time it’s the client himself who’s changed—fired,
            actually—and now there’s a new client who wants something totally
            different. Whatever it is, it’s always something.
               It gets worse.
               During meeting number 4 through number 63, the campaign is
            watered down, softened, and diluted so much that the final commer-
            cial is precisely as interesting as a bag of hair. The last interesting
            thing in the commercial is successfully removed in meeting number
            63. An optimist might say that things should have gone smoothly
            from here on out. (“For cryin’ out loud. It’s a bag of hair! What’s to
            complain about?”) But there are no optimists in advertising.
               It’s Friday. The scheduled day of meeting number 64.
               Meeting number 64 isn’t even a very important meeting, given
            that the CEO signed off back around meeting number 50 or so. But
            there needed to be a few dozen more “For Your Information” sort
            of presentations, and if any of them went badly the agency would
            have to start over.
               The meeting begins. The art director goes through the old moves,
            trying to remember the fun of presenting it the first time. But
            there’s no spark left. She just . . . presents it.
               The client sits there. Says nothing at first.
               The client then reaches down into her purse and pulls out a small
            Kermit the Frog doll. (This really happened.) It’s one of those flexi-
            ble dolls, and she begins bending the frog’s arms around so that its
            hands are covering its ears. Then the client says: “Mr. Froggy doesn’t
            like some of the things he’s hearing.”
               This really happened.
               The client actually said, “Mr. Froggy doesn’t like some of the
            things he’s hearing” (Figure 10.3).
               Let me put it this way. There are two kinds of hell. There’s
            “Original” and then there’s “Extra Crispy.” This was Extra Crispy.
               Well, Ms. Froggy-Lady, as she came to be known, wasn’t able to
            kill the commercial, only make it a little worse—a feat in itself. And
            so, finally, in meeting number 68, the whole company had signed off
            on this one storyboard.
               All in all, it took 68 presentations to hundreds of MBAs in
            dozens of sweaty presentation rooms. In fact, there were some sar-
            castic agency memos to the media department suggesting that since
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 221

                                  Only the Good Die Young                     221

                                                                                     tomlichtenheld.com

                      Figure 10.3 I’m not kidding. This really happened.

            the commercial had been shown to thousands of people already,
            there may not be a need to air it at all.
               The creative team went back to the agency, opened two beers,
            and sat looking at the sunset through the windows of their offices
            on the 30th floor. There, over the body of the original storyboard
            that lay on the floor, they performed an advertising postmortem,
            discussing the more shocking moments of its horrifying death.
               Eavesdropping, a casual listener might have thought the two had
            just come out of the theater and were talking about a horror movie.
            (“Yeah! And remember that really scary part where they put that
            awful . . . ‘thing’ on the overhead projector? Man, I did not see that
            coming at all.”)
               That’s when they noticed something out their window—something
            disturbing.
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 222

            222                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               Outside their window was a 40-story building.
               The thing is, the 40-story building wasn’t there the day they began
            working on the commercial.
               With horror, the creative team realized that a building had been
            raised, built from a 30-foot-deep hole in the ground and 40 stories
            into the sky, faster than their little 12-frame storyboard had been
            destroyed and approved.
               Why do I tell you this? To chase you away from the business?
               No, to steel you for it.
               This stuff happens all the time. And keep in mind, none of these
            clients were stupid people. (Well, we can discuss Froggy-Lady
            later.) They were all pretty sharp businesspeople, trying as hard as
            they could to solve a problem for their brand. But as smart and nice
            as they all were individually, a calcified approval process had crept
            into the company’s structure, and it became completely impossible
            to get a decent idea out the door.
               This happens all the time. Be ready.

                                    THE LIZ ACCOUNT.
            Then there’s Liz. Liz is a glamorous and famous brand. Everyone
            knows Liz.
               Over the years, the Liz account moves its tired old derriere from
            agency to agency to agency to agency. Every shop along the way
            thinks, wow, what a catch, and a year later every one of them has
            that hangdog look of desperation.
               The thing is, many Liz companies make products that are incredi-
            bly great. But you couldn’t tell it by their ads, which are always ter-
            rible no matter which agency they’re currently shacking with. Good
            products, though, and that’s the shame of it.
               About once every two years, you’ll see this client’s name pop up in
            the trades: The honeymoon’s over, old agency is out, new agency in.
            Photos are taken of big smiles shaking hands in front of banners with
            corny lines like “Partners in Progress” or “Thanks for the Biz, Liz.”
               “Compton & Curry Walk Away with $65M Liz-Co,” reads
            Adweek. Six months later, Compton is in chemical-dependency
            treatment and Curry’s on the phone to Adweek with something
            about “creative differences.” Liz is back at the altar and agencies
            are lining up, lured by the siren song of that blue-chip logo still
            looking “okay” after all these years.
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 223

                                  Only the Good Die Young                     223

               I have a friend who just started working for a Liz client.
               One day the client phones my friend, says, “Okay, I want you guys
            to start thinking about our next TV campaign. And don’t worry. I
            already have the elephant.”
               She was serious. She actually said, “Don’t worry. I already have
            the elephant.”
               She had, in fact, already booked an elephant through an animal
            trainer. She didn’t have the idea all worked out but felt certain that
            the marketing answer was somewhere in the whole pachyderm
            thing. All that was left for the agency to do was coax the idea out of
            its pen at the zoo and onto prime-time TV.
               See, Liz’s problem is that she thinks she knows advertising; she
            already has her own executions in mind. She knows enough to rec-
            ognize somebody else’s good work when she sees it, which is why
            she’s always flirting with the good agencies. But she doesn’t know
            enough to let them solve the problem. She thinks she knows better.
               Once they’re in bed with her, the mask comes off and Liz says,
            “All right, scribblers, here’s the idea I want executed,” and she pro-
            ceeds to bend them around like red licorice.
               One morning, long after the excitement of that famous logo is
            gone, you’ll roll over in bed and see Liz without makeup. Not a
            pretty sight.
               But Liz, as certain as she is of her own ideas, is nice about it.
            Worse than a Liz client is one who bullies you. Mistreats you. There
            aren’t many, but they’re out there.

                                        THE BULLY.
            There is another kind of bad account. The account run by the Bully
            client. Bullies anywhere are bad. But Bullies with real power are
            enough, as Anne Lamott says, to make Jesus drink himself to sleep.
               Bullies aren’t born that way. They develop over many years, like
            wine gone sour in a forgotten cellar. They come out of the cellar
            with a vast amount of knowledge, all of it wrong, down to the sylla-
            ble. The one I’m thinking of had been in the business some 20 years
            when I was put on his account.
               He had spent most of his career on a second-rate brand of beer
            and was personally responsible for one of the worst campaigns
            ever to foul a TV set. And he was so proud of that beer campaign.
            Women with big breasts. Wild beach parties with lots of what he’d
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 224

            224                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            call “jiggle.” And always ending with that tired old shot, a bar-
            tender holding two frosty bottles in each hand, offering them to the
            camera. “Product ID!” he’d say.
               He would brag about this awful campaign, measuring our work
            by it one day, smacking our hands with it the next. When it was just
            us guys in the room, he’d say, “You wanna know why that campaign
            worked? I tellya why that campaign worked. We had girls with them
            big ol’ titties and trucks and everything.”
               I’m not kidding. He said that. It was like every nightmare Gloria
            Steinem ever had about the way some men behave behind closed
            corporate doors. He was a pig.
               Even his boss knew his beer campaign stank and would occasion-
            ally interrupt him in midbrag to tell him so. The Bully would good-
            naturedly chuck his boss’s shoulder and remind him of the slight
            upward drift of his beer’s sales curve.
               He projected his own inadequacies onto the market and made
            the mistake of thinking that the customer is none too bright. And it
            was reflected in the advertising he forced all of his agencies to do.
            Pile-driving, “no-nonsense” nonsense.
               During your career in advertising, you will meet this man. He will
            know nothing about advertising but will wield great power. “All hat
            and no cattle,” I’ve heard him described. No argument will be elo-
            quent enough to sway him from his sledgehammer approach to
            advertising. There is no poetry in the man. No subtlety. He is a
            paper tiger. A tin-pot despot lording over his little product fiefdom,
            spouting rules from advertising’s Bronze Age, and pointing to mod-
            est sales increases whenever his excesses and crudities are exposed.
               And the day all intelligence in American advertising dies, he
            should be brought in for questioning.

                              HALLWAY BEAST #1: THE HACK.
            Yes, clients can misbehave. Thank God, most of them don’t. And to
            account for all that awful work you see on TV every night, those
            bad clients must have a few friends on the agency side of the busi-
            ness. They do.
               Like everything else in life, America’s list of agencies makes up a
            big bell curve. There are a few truly great agencies, then a whole
            bunch of agencies that are just okay, and then a few bad ones.
               To get off to the right start in this business, you’re going to need
            to know how to spot those bad agencies. And it’s not as easy as you
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:10 AM   Page 225

                                   Only the Good Die Young                      225

            think. Just because an agency has a commercial in the latest awards
            annual doesn’t mean you want to work there.
               What you’ve got to do is, during your interviews, look for The
            Hack. (Let’s call him Hallway Beast #1. There are others in the
            menagerie.)
               The first warning sign that you’re in the presence of a Hack is
            that he’ll somehow bring up his One Good Ad from Way Back. He
            won’t call it that. In fact, he’ll show it to you and say something like,
            “This is the kind of work we do here.” That’s when you notice the
            ad is on brittle, yellowing paper from a magazine like Collier’s.
               All Hacks have one of these ads. They made their name on it.
            They’ve been riding its tired old back for decades and look about as
            silly doing it as Adam West now looks in his old Batman suit.
               It can be a great ad. Doesn’t matter. Ask yourself, what else have
            they done? Talented people with a gift for advertising keep doing
            great work, time and again, for a variety of clients.
               Another warning sign that should send your Hack-O-Meter into
            the red is how they talk. And how they do talk. In fact, talk is all a
            Hack can do, being incapable as he is of producing an ad that a fly
            won’t lay eggs on. He’ll know the buzzwords. And worse, he’ll have
            a few of his own. “At this agency, we believe in advertising with
            Clutter-Busting® Power.” If you hear something like this, just drop
            your portfolio and run. You can put together another book. Just
            run. Don’t risk the elevator. Go for the stairs.
               Agencies are the way they are for a reason. It’s no accident
            they’re doing awful work. They have clients on one side asking for
            awful work, Hacks on the other side giving it to them, and a guy in
            the middle counting all the money. Talk is cheap. Especially talk
            about how “we’re going to turn this place around.” If you hear this
            phrase, you should turn around. Again, go for the stairs.
               The quintessential giveaway, however, is the creative director
            who denigrates creativity in general and awards shows in particular.
            This was the kid in the playground who didn’t have a big red ball, so
            he told the other kids, “Big red balls are stupid.” He can’t do it. So,
            of course, he’s going to denigrate it.
               Some of these guys kill ideas simply because they’re unable to
            generate ideas of their own. In fact, to kill what you’ve come up
            with actually seems like an idea to them. They’ll go: “Hey wait!
            Shhhhh! . . . I have an idea! Let’s not do your idea!” Their ideas are
            like antimatter. They don’t really exist until yours does and when
            they meet, they’re both gone in an instant.
               In an interview, this guy will look you straight in the eye and say,
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:10 AM   Page 226

            226                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            “Creativity is overrated. Client sales is what we’re all about.” He’ll
            get out a case history. Show you some commercials he’ll call “hard-
            working” and then tap his finger on a number at the bottom of the
            results page. “This, my little friend, is what we do.”
                Someday I’d like to try an experiment. It will cost $40 million. I’ll
            give a fifth-grader a brand name and tell him to shoot a commer-
            cial. Whatever he comes up with, I’ll spend the rest of the $39-some
            million airing on prime time. In a couple of months, I’ll bet Little
            Jimmy can take off his baseball glove and tap his finger on a similar
            sales increase. The point is, with a two-ton sledgehammer even a
            fifth-grader can ring the bell at the top. (I suspect Mr. Whipple’s war
            chest of several trillion had something to do with his high recall
            scores.)
                On the other hand, you have what’s called creative leverage—
            beating out the competition’s advertising by doing something that is
            more interesting. Years ago, writer Ed McCabe said, “Disciplined
            creativity is often the last remaining legal means you have to gain
            an unfair advantage over the competition.”
                Compare that quotation from McCabe with this next one. I can’t
            print this man’s name, but to a national trade magazine he said
            blithely and without shame, “Sheer repetition can build awareness
            and equity for a client even if an ad is not considered creatively bril-
            liant. A dumb dollar beats a smart dime any day.”
                Sheer repetition? If I were this guy’s client, I’d take my dumb
            dollar over to an agency that can give me 10 times the wallop with a
            dime’s worth of sheer brilliance.
                Hacks get easier to spot as they feed and prosper. In their mature
            years, they sprout long titles, some growing up to 10 inches in length.
            Recently, I saw a picture of a Hack in Adweek, and below it, this title:
            “Executive Vice President/Vice Chairman/Chief Creative Director
            North America/General Manager/Worldwide Coordinator.” I’m not
            kidding—word for word.
                Agencies may keep them on, sort of as expensive hood orna-
            ments. They’ll trot them out at big pitches, but during the rest of the
            year they’ll give them what I call a “Nerf account”—something they
            can bat around without hurting themselves or anybody else. They
            are well known, as one wag put it, chiefly for being well known.
                A closing thought on Hacks. One of the great things about this
            business is that you’ll be surrounded by vibrant, interesting, and
            genuinely nice people. I don’t know why the industry attracts them,
            it just does.
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 227

                                  Only the Good Die Young                     227

              And Hacks are no exception. Most of the ones I’ve known are
            people just as nice as you could want to meet. After office hours,
            they’re great fishing buddies, loving mothers, and intelligent bridge
            partners.
              But I warn you against joining their team during working hours.
            As a junior, you’ll learn bad habits from them, habits that will be
            hard to break, even when you come under the tutelage of more tal-
            ented teachers. We improve by surrounding ourselves with people
            whose work we admire.

                                THE GOLDEN HANDCUFFS.
            If you take a job at a big, dull agency, you might, without your see-
            ing it happen, slip into a pair of “golden handcuffs.” That big agency
            may be willing to pay you a lot of money to crank out the dull ads.
            You get used to the money. A couple of years go by, and as your
            bank account fills with money, your book fills with bad ads—ads
            you can’t show without embarrassment or explanation.
               Agencies will do all kinds of silly things to keep you happy at
            your desk cranking out bad stuff. I remember at one agency they
            started handing out “vice presidencies” like candy from a Pez dis-
            penser. Anybody who complained or was seen putting his portfolio
            together was suddenly a vice president.
               After a while, though, it seemed almost everybody in the creative
            department was a VP, and the distinction began to lose its luster.
            That didn’t stop them. They just started handing out secret vice
            presidencies.
               The boss would motion you into his office. He’d say, “We love
            your work. You’re gonna be a superstar. So we’re making you a vice
            president, but . . . uh, we don’t want you to tell anyone. Some peo-
            ple, well, they aren’t as good as you and aren’t being promoted.” By
            the time I left, the entire creative department was full of “super-
            stars” who were vice presidents, half on the up-and-up, and half
            “secret” vice presidents.
               Most of the time, these “assistant-vice presidencies” and other
            titles don’t add up to much anyway. I had a friend who worked for a
            large, stuffy old agency. The morning after he was promoted, he was
            standing outside his cubicle chatting with a coworker. The kid from
            the mail room shows up with a hammer and says, “Your name
            Buchner?” My friend nods yes. The kid proceeds to wedge one
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 228

            228                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            corner of the cubicle open, hammers in a modular two-foot exten-
            sion piece, says “Congratulations,” and walks away.

                       HALLWAY BEAST #2: THE PRIMA DONNA.
            Hallway Beast #2: the Prima Donna. This is the writer or art direc-
            tor who thinks he is God’s gift to advertising. And they are all over
            this business.
               The one I’m thinking of right now had that one dead giveaway,
            something all PDs share—the Swagger. That walk people get when
            they think their DNA is better than everybody else’s. There he goes
            now, down the hallway. And in his hand, a paper bearing his latest
            brilliant headline. (Oh, how I wish he’d let me see what it is now and
            not make me wait till next year’s awards annuals come out.)
               Why they develop the Swagger, I don’t know. I mean, if that
            paper was a blueprint for world peace instead of a coupon ad for
            Jell-O, okay, sashay a little bit. But the PD seems to have forgotten
            what he does for a living. He’s a word-slinging schmuck like the rest
            of us. But you’ll never convince a Prima Donna he’s the same
            species as we.
               Wherever the Prima Donna is swaggering, when he gets there
            you can bet he’ll have something nasty to say about either how
            excruciatingly dumb account executives are or what blind bastards
            every single one of his clients is.
               But you, you’re okay—that is, if the Prima Donna is standing
            within 10 feet of you. PDs obey what I call the 10-Foot Pinhead
            Rule. Anyone farther than 10 feet from the Prima Donna is a pin-
            head. He’ll walk into your office and say, “Oh, you wouldn’t believe
            the pinhead I was just talking to.” Of course, the rule applies when
            he leaves your office. Eleven feet down the hallway, he’ll be telling
            whomever he’s with, “God, I’m glad we left that pinhead’s office.”
               Prima Donnas would have made great Nazis, because they culti-
            vate an air of entitlement and genetic superiority. Each one believes
            he is the center gear in capitalism’s great machine. What the pen of
            Herr Donna writes today will tomorrow be on the lips of all the
            haggard supermarket moms he makes fun of in his off-hours.
               You see, Prima Donnas have so much to teach us. If we would
            only listen. But as the years go by and he casts more of his pearls
            before swine, his poison ferments and his talons curl. Prima Donnas
            just get mean.
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:10 AM   Page 229

                                   Only the Good Die Young                      229

               It’s like this: When I look out my tall office building, I think all
            the people look like ants. He thinks that when he’s on the street.
               There was this one Prima Donna I remember. His first day at
            work he called the office manager in and calmly directed that his
            desk be raised three inches. Three inches—I’m not kidding.
            Apparently, his keyboard had to be a certain distance from his chin
            to invoke the visions. When he could bully the producers into it,
            he’d fly only first class. And any suggestions from coworkers on how
            to improve an idea were laughed off or explained away. It got so
            bad finally that no art director would work with him. He was about
            to be fired when he quit and took a job somewhere else.
               The hurt and anger he left behind in the agency lingered for some
            time. Secretaries came out of hiding and admitted to farting in his
            office when he was gone. After a while, we tried to be philosophical
            about his character. The best we could say about him was: “If you
            cut him open, you’d find a heart of gold. And if you didn’t, hey,
            you’ve cut him open.”

                            HALLWAY BEAST #3: THE WHINER.
            Lord knows, I’ve been one of these. And in my early years, I wasted
            a lot of time doing it. (Does this chapter count as whining? Don’t
            answer.)
               It has been said that whining is simply anger coming through a
            very small hole. If so, then the Whiner is a very angry little man.
               What he whines about most is his job. And he whines all the time.
            All of his clients suck. All account executives suck. The sad part is, if
            he could just convert half the energy he spends whining in the hall-
            ways to working in his office, he’d be doing better work. Yes, that
            work might die because sometimes a client may, in fact, suck. But
            those are the breaks of the business. Get over it.
               The Whiner can have a job at the best agency in the world and
            he’ll find something to bitch about. And it’s such a disconnect to lis-
            ten to a Whiner strum his blues as he reclines amid the opulence of
            a large ad agency.
               You’ll find him whining in the employee kitchen while guzzling
            his 80th free Coke and eating a free lunch. (“My book is so at the
            headhunter’s.”)
               You’ll find him in a first-class seat of a jet on the way to a com-
            mercial shoot in sunny California, bitching about how they made
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 230

            230                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            him mention the client’s product in a commercial about the client’s
            product. (“That is, like, so expected.”)
               You’ll find him working in a comfortable conference room,
            grousing about having to work on smaller jobs like a brochure or
            direct mail. (“My old partner is on a TV shoot right now and I’m
            here doing this crap.”)
               Whiners can be poison to other people in the agency. It’s hard
            enough to keep your spirits high in this business, and it doesn’t help
            to have a Whiner draped over the chair in your office, going
            through the agency phone list rating employees. (“Loser, Hack,
            Mule, Mule, Hack, Loser . . .”)
               When the Whiner moves on to that agency he thinks is so much
            better, it’s the old truism: “Wherever you go in life, there you are.”
            To his horror, he discovers ad agencies are pretty much the same
            everywhere. There are hard clients, misguided research, and unrea-
            sonable deadlines everywhere, and because that’s all he focuses on,
            these Harpies will follow him throughout all of his sad days.
               I’m not saying you can’t whine. It’s good to let off some steam
            now and then. True Whining, however, has a vituperative edge to it.
            It’s toxic. Pestilential. There’s no hope in it. After a while, you won-
            der why Whiners don’t just leave the business altogether.
               Cut to the next scene, the Whiner’s new job at the shoe store: “I
            should get a job over at Foot Locker. Those guys are so good. This
            place sucks.”

                             HALLWAY BEASTS #4 AND #5:
                            WACK JOBS AND SLASH WEASELS.
            If this book were politically correct, our next Hallway Beast might
            be described as a person who “does things differently.” But this is
            not that kind of book.
               I’m talking about people who are total Wack Jobs. Crazy as six-
            toed cats on crack in a Chinese whorehouse.
               What makes Wack Jobs such interesting specimens is that they
            look crazy even in the loosey-goosey atmosphere of an ad agency.
            I’m remembering this one guy who could write only if he was wear-
            ing a full-face knit ski mask. Or this other one who could write only
            on days that were approved by his astrologist.
               Also legendary was the Wack Job who had so little life outside
            the agency that he slept there. When you worked late at the agency,
            you grew used to the sight of him in his underwear walking through
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:10 AM   Page 231

                                   Only the Good Die Young                      231

            the hallways to the bathroom for a midnight pee. Which reminds me
            of this other guy who stood at the urinal in the company men’s
            room with his pants and underwear dropped all the way down
            around his ankles. When you came into the bathroom he would give
            you a look that just dared you to say anything.
               Wack Jobs usually have very screwed-up personal lives that they
            vaguely allude to in the few meetings they turn up for.
               “Sorry, I’m late. I was in court.”
               “Oh, jury duty?” someone asks.
               “No.”
               “Oooooookay, well, let’s start our meeting, shall we?”
               WJs move from giving you no information about themselves
            (“I’m from . . . out West.”) to giving way too much. In the middle of a
            meeting, they’ll lean over and whisper something like, “Years ago
            my mother was killed by clowns, and I feel sad today.”
               Sometimes that excess information is medical. We had this one
            Wack Job call in sick and leave a long voice mail with grisly details
            about the viscosity of his mucus and the water content of his
            phlegm. The voice mail was played publicly at maximum volume
            the entire week.
               The most damaging kind of Wack Job is the crazy creative direc-
            tor. One of the early warning signs of possible wackage in a CD is a
            proliferation of props in his office—like those giant six-foot pencils.
            A giant wristwatch on the wall. A giant anything, really. Or a den-
            tist’s chair. (“See, it’s an actual dentist’s chair!”) Jukeboxes and pin-
            ball machines are popular; mannequins, too.
               Wack Job CDs think their office props say, “I’m creative! Who
            knows what I’ll say or do next?” What they say or do next, however,
            is driving everyone insane because they change their minds about
            the work right up to the last minute.
               I have a friend who worked for a Wack Job. Crazy-ass boss comes
            into my friend’s office one hour before a client meeting with huge
            changes to the campaign. When my friend groans, the WJ whips out
            a small vial of pills and says, “Sure you don’t want to split a
            Xanax?”
               CDs can stay crazy even on vacation. I remember getting a phone
            call from a CD’s assistant: “Jim called from Barbados to kill that
            campaign he approved. Fax new ideas to his boat tonight, okay?”
               Wack Jobs are, of course, relatively easy to spot in the agency
            hallways. More insidious is the Slash Weasel.
               First thing you need to understand is the word slash. In ad par-
            lance, it means “shared credit.” When an ad is accepted into a
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 232

            232                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            national awards show, the credits are listed below the ad. And when
            two people contribute to an ad’s art direction or its writing, their
            names are listed together, separated by a slash (/).
               But those names in the award books? That’s credit. And credit is
            what the Slash Weasel craves. So he’ll creep around the creative
            department trying to get “slashed” into the credit lines of other peo-
            ple’s work. They’re basically the goal hangers of advertising. To ride
            your coattails, a Weez thinks all he has to do is make a suggestion
            about your ad. Upon seeing your work, he’ll rattle off a couple of
            “Did you try . . .” statements and walk away. Later, he’ll insist he
            “helped” with your work and will include your ad in his portfolio.
            This really happens.
               Remember that saying, “There is no ‘I’ in team”?
               Well, there’s a “we” in weasel, which is why they throw the word
            around a lot regardless of whether they’re part of your team or any
            other. They’ll just stand in your office when the boss comes by and
            go, “Man, we really like these ads a lot.” Another stunt is to pop into
            the creative director’s office right before you present and say some-
            thing like, “You’re really gonna like what you’re about to see.”
               There’s not much you can do about a Weez except steer clear.
            What’s sad about them is that Slash Weasels sometimes actually
            have talent. The problem is, they’re in the business for the wrong
            reason—they don’t care as much about their clients’ brands as they
            do their own.

                       HALLWAY BEAST #6: THE HOUR GOBBLER.
            Hallway Beast #6 isn’t a person. It’s a thing. The Meeting. If you see
            one, run.
               Run, little pony, run, and never look back.
               If the wheels of capitalism ever grind to a halt, the agenda of a
            meeting will be found caught in the gears. And in the advertising
            business, meetings thrive like mutant weeds, making actual work
            impossible.
               There are meetings with doughnuts and meetings without dough-
            nuts. Meetings to talk about ads you’re going to do and meetings to
            talk about the ads you just did. All these meetings will be held in
            small, windowless rooms heated to forehead-dampening tempera-
            tures by overhead-projector bulbs and all held during that torpid
            postlunch lull around 2:30.
               As a junior, you probably should just shrug and show up for any
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 233

                                   Only the Good Die Young                     233

            meeting you get memo’d on. But as your radar develops, you’ll start
            to be able to detect which meetings are important—where big plans
            are made and things get done—and which aren’t.
               The ones I’m talking about are those meetings that are called
            because somebody needed something to do. “Background” meet-
            ings. Or “touching base” meetings. These aren’t called because deci-
            sions need to be made. They’re just called. And oh, how they go on.
            I was in one of these Hour Gobblers once, and I swear time actually
            stopped. I’m not kidding. Swear to God, as plain as day, the second
            hand on the wall clock just stopped. No more tick-tock. Just . . .
            tick. . . . and that was it.
               It was a particularly useless meeting and three hours long. Just
            when we thought we were going to get out, someone raised his hand
            and asked a question—the kind of tired, lifeless query I call a
            “meeting extender.” A meeting extender is a question like: “Well,
            Bill, how do those figures compare with the results from Chicago?”
            That’s when the clock stopped and began to sag like a Dali painting.
               Speakerphone meetings are the worst. And the worst of the
            worst is the three-way speakerphone, client-on-a-car-phone confer-
            ence call meeting. There you are, eight nervous people all huddled
            around a little black box, listening to an art director in L.A. describe
            a picture nobody can see, to a client nobody can hear.
               Ending a meeting is an art it pays to develop. When the business at
            hand seems at an end even though the meeting is not, start stacking
            your papers together, evening up the edges, the way news anchors do
            at the end of their broadcast. It’s body language that says, “Well,
            nothing interesting is going to happen anymore in this room.”
               I hate it when I get sucked into an Hour Gobbler and have no
            work I can sneak into the meeting. I usually start writing jokes to
            myself to pass the time. In one meeting, I remember trying to make
            my buddy Bob Barrie laugh and instead blew my own cover. I
            started writing a joke: “Bob’s List of Things to Do.” I thought I’d
            just slip it under his nose. Try to crack him up. So I started
            scribbling:

              BOB’S LIST OF THINGS TO DO:
               1. Ointment on rash??
               2. Rotate bricks under car in front yard.
               3. Apologize to that kid’s parents.
               4. Wash blood out of clown suit.
               5. Peek under scab.
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 234

            234                “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               When I wrote “Peek under scab,” I did one of those bursting
            laugh-out-loud kind of explosions, and the whole room stopped
            thinking about Chicago and glared at me for an explanation. I sim-
            ply had to fess up: “Hey, I’m sorry, I just thought of something
            funny, completely unrelated to these proceedings. I’m very sorry.
            Please continue.”
               But the image of Bob Barrie peeking under a knee scab finally
            did me in. I just collapsed, boneless, and had to excuse myself from
            the room.
               But it got me out of the meeting.
               Yet as much as I try to avoid meetings, all the really important
            stuff in this business ultimately happens in one meeting—the client
            presentation.
               This is where all the hard work you’ve done lives or dies. And
            where the future audience of a storyboard is decided. Will it be mil-
            lions of people seeing your TV commercial on the Super Bowl? Or
            a janitor who glances at the big board with funny drawings before
            cramming it into the rolling garbage can?
               It’s an important meeting. Be prepared.
15934_Sullivan_c10_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 235
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:10 AM   Page 236

               Figure 11.1 In focus groups, bad things happen to your storyboards.
                                        Very bad things.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 237

                                           11
               Pecked to Death by Ducks
                 Presenting and protecting your work

            ABOUT 20 PERCENT OF YOUR TIME in the advertising business will be
            spent thinking up ads. 80 percent will be spent protecting them. And
            30 percent doing them over.
               A screenwriter was looking out on the parking lot at Universal
            Studios one day. It occurred to him, said this article, that every one
            of those cars was parked there by somebody who came to stop him
            from doing his movie.
               The similarity to advertising is chilling. The elevator cables in
            your client’s building will fairly groan hauling up all the people
            intent on killing your best stuff.
               When word gets around the client offices that the agency is here
            to present, vice presidents and assistant vice presidents will appear
            out of the walls and storm the conference room like zombies in
            Night of the Living Dead, pounding on the door, hungry arms reach-
            ing in for the layouts, pleading, “Must kill. Must kill.”
               I have been in meetings where, after the last ad was presented, an
            eager young hatchet man raised his hand and asked his boss, “Can I
            be the first to say why I don’t like it?”
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 238

            238                “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                I have been in meetings surrounded by so many vice presidents,
            I actually heard Custer whisper to me from the grave, “Man, I
            thought I had it bad. You guys are, like, so dead.”
                You will see ads killed in ways you didn’t know things could be
            killed. You will see them eviscerated by blowhards bearing
            charts. You will see them garotted by quiet little men bearing
            political agendas. A comment from a passing janitor will pick off
            ads like cans from a fencepost and casual remarks by the chair-
            man’s wife will mow down whole campaigns like the first charge
            at Gallipoli.
                Then there’s the “friendly fire” to worry about. A stray memo
            from your agency’s research department can send your campaign
            up in flaming foamcore. Your campaign can also be fragged by the
            ill-timed hallway remark of an angry coworker.
                War widows received their telegrams from ashen-faced military
            chaplains. You, however, will look up from your desk to see an
            account executive, smiling.
                “The client has some issues and concerns about your ads.”
                This is how account executives announce the death of your
            labors: “Issues and concerns.”
                To understand the portent of this phrase, picture the men lying
            on the floor of that Chicago garage on St. Valentine’s Day. Al
            Capone had issues and concerns with these men.
                I’ve had account executives beat around the bush for 15 min-
            utes before they could tell me the bad news. “Well, we had a good
            meeting.”
                “Yes,” you say, “but are the ads dead?”
                “We learned a lot.”
                “But are they dead?”
                “Wellll, . . . your ads are, they’re with Jesus now.”
                When you next see your ads, they will be lying in state in the
            account executive’s office. Maybe on the desk. Maybe down in
            between the desk and the wall. (So thoughtless.) Maybe they’ll bear
            crease wounds where they were crudely folded during the pitch
            team’s hasty medevac under fire.
                But you’ll remember them the way they were. (“They look so . . .
            so natural.”) Say your good-byes. Try to think about the good times.
            Then walk away and start preparing for the next attack. I hear the
            drums.
                What follows are some quixotic arguments that may help protect
            your loved ones in future battles. If you find any of them useful, I
            recommend you commit them to memory. Go into meetings armed
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 239

                                  Pecked to Death by Ducks                    239

            and with the safety off. It’s my experience that what a client decides
            in a meeting stays decided.

                                 PRESENTING THE WORK.
            Learn the client’s corporate culture.
            Spend as much time with the client as you can. Talk to the quiet guy
            from R&D. Tell jokes with the product managers. The more they
            know you, the more they’re going to trust you. The more they trust
            you, the more likely they are to buy these strange and disgusting
            things you call ideas.
               But you’re going to learn something about them, too. You’re
            going to get a feel for the tone of this company. How far they will
            go. What they think is funny. You’ll save yourself a lot of grief once
            you understand this. Remember, they see you as their brand ambas-
            sador. They’re trusting you to accurately translate their corporate
            culture to the customer.
               This doesn’t mean doing the safe thing. It means if your client is a
            church, you probably shouldn’t open your TV spot with that scene
            from The Exorcist where Linda Blair blow-chucks split pea soup on
            the priest.

            Present your own work.
            Nobody knows it better than you. Nobody has more invested in it
            than you. And if you screw up, you have nobody to blame but you.
               Two addenda: (1) If you are a truly awful presenter, don’t. At
            least not the big campaigns. Better to have a skilled account person
            or creative director sell them. (2) Learn to present. It’s a skill, and
            like any other skill, the more you do it the better you’ll get. Start
            small. Sell a small-space newspaper campaign. Present to the
            account folks. Just do it. Creatives who can brilliantly present work
            go a lot further and make more money in this business than those
            who cannot. Not being able to present your own work (or the work
            of other people) will handicap you throughout your entire career.
            Pilots can’t be afraid of heights. It just doesn’t work.

            Practice selling your campaign before you go in to present.
            Don’t just wing it. I used to think winging it was cool. But that was
            just bravado. As if my ideas were so good they didn’t need no stink-
            ing presentation. Wrong. Practice it.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 240

            240                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Don’t memorize a speech for your presentation.
            Trying to memorize written material will make you nervous. You’ll
            worry you’re going to forget something. Write out a speech if it
            helps you organize your thoughts, but toss it when you’re done. All
            you need to do is establish what marks you have to hit along the
            way and then make sure you hit them. “I need to make Points A, B,
            and C.” Once you see the light go on in a client’s eyes regarding A,
            move on to B.

            Don’t be slick. Clients hate slick.
            You know all those unfair stereotyped images we sometimes have
            about clients? Uptight, overly rational, number-crunching politi-
            cians. They’ve got a similar set of incorrect images about us. Slick,
            unctuous, glad-handing, promise-them-anything sycophants. Is it
            fair? No. But that’s the thing about stereotypes. You’re a little
            behind before you even start. So don’t be slick.
               But if you’re not slick, what should you be?
               Be yourself. Be smart. Be crisp, be to the point, be agreeable.
            Don’t be something you aren’t. It never works. You will appear
            disingenuous, and so will your ideas.

            Keep your “pre-ramble” to an absolute minimum. Start fast.
            That doesn’t mean start cold. It’s likely you’ll have to do some
            amount of setup. But make it crisp, to the point, and fast.
               There is a good book on the art of good presentations called I
            Can See You Naked, by Ron Hoff. I recommend it. One of his points
            is this: The first 90 seconds of any presentation are crucial. “Plunge
            into your subject,” writes Hoff. “Let there be no doubt that the sub-
            ject has been engaged.”1
               In those first 90 seconds, the client is unconsciously sizing you up,
            making initial impressions, and probably deciding prematurely
            whether or not they’re going to like what you have to say. So don’t
            wade into the water. Dive.

            Don’t hand out materials before you present.
            Stay in command of the room. The minute you hand a script to a
            client, you’re competing with the script. Clients are human and nat-
            urally want to get to the good stuff. They’ll start taking peeks.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 241

                                  Pecked to Death by Ducks                     241

              In fact, when I present a TV storyboard, I’ll sometimes cover up a
            number of frames to keep the client from getting ahead of me.
            Perhaps the best method is not to use a storyboard at all. A client
            usually looks at a storyboard and sees nine frames of “kooky, wacky
            stuff” and one frame of his logo. The math that goes through his
            head isn’t pretty. It’s usually better to work from a script and one
            key frame. Talk them through the broad strokes. Play a movie in
            their heads. And bring out a board later on only to discuss details.
              Whatever you do, stay in control of the room’s attention.

            Don’t present your campaign as “risk-taking work.”
            Clients hate that.
            In the agency hallways, it’s fine to talk about work being “risk tak-
            ing.” But it’s just about the worst thing you can say to product man-
            agers. They don’t want risk. They want certainty. Whether certainty
            is possible in this business remains in doubt, but clients definitely do
            not need to hear the R word.
               Find other ways to describe your campaign. For instance, “It goes
            against the grain.” Anything is more palatable to a client with his
            job on the line, a mortgage to pay, and two kids to put through
            reform school.
               Okay, before we go on to the next paragraph, I just want to say
            that is really good. I worked on it a long time and it may in fact be
            the best paragraph of this whole book. I think you’re going to love it.

            Before you unveil your stuff, don’t assure the client that
            they’re “going to love this.”
            This is known as “leading with your chin.” Somebody’s gonna take a
            swipe at it just to keep you humble.

            As they say in law school, don’t ask a question you don’t
            know the answer to.
            Same thing in presentations. Anticipate every objection you can
            and have a persuasive answer in the chamber, locked and loaded.

            If you’re presenting print work, why not paste the ads
            into one of the magazines in which they’ll be appearing?
            If you’ve done it right and the ads avoid the visual clichés of your
            category, they should be head and shoulders above the clutter. You
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 242

            242                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            don’t have to say, “Trust us.” You can hand the magazine over to the
            client and say, “See for yourself.”

            Never show a client work you don’t want them to buy.
            I guarantee you, second-rate work is what clients will gravitate to.
               The reasoning I have used to allow myself to present so-so ads
            goes like this: “Well, we gotta sell something to get this campaign
            going, and time is running out. So we’ll present five ads, but we’ll
            make sure they buy only these three great ones. The two so-so ones
            we’ll include just to, you know, help us put on a good presentation.
            They’ll be filler.”
               But what happens is, the client will approve the work they feel
            safer with, less scared by, and that is almost always the second-rate
            work.

            Conversely, don’t leave your best work on the floor
            at the agency.
            “Oh, the client will never buy this.” How do you know? They may
            surprise you. They may not. But don’t do their work for them.
            McElligott once told me, “Go as far as you can. The client will
            always bring you back.”

            At the presentation, don’t just sit there.
            No matter how right your campaign may feel to you, it’s not going
            to magically fly through the client approval process. Even if the
            client appears to buy it outright, sooner or later they’ll start taking
            potshots. “Little changes” here and there, here and there.
               You need to learn to be an articulate defender of your own work.
            Don’t count on your account executive to do it. Don’t leave it to
            your partner. Pay attention in the meeting. Try to understand
            exactly what might be bothering your client. And then take the ini-
            tiative to either fix the problem to your satisfaction or come back
            with the most articulate defense you can.
               As you form a defense, your first instincts may be to build a
            bridge from where you are to where your client is. (“If only I
            could get them to see how great these ads are.”) Instead, get over to
            where your client is and build a bridge back to your position. With
            such an attitude, your argument will be more empathetic and
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:10 AM    Page 243

                                   Pecked to Death by Ducks                       243

            more persuasive. Because you are seeing the problem from your
            client’s perspective.

            Base your defense on strategy.
            Your client is not sitting at his office right now twiddling his thumbs,
            waiting for you to bring in your campaign. A director of marketing
            for a consumer products company may spend as little as 5 percent
            of his time on advertising issues—the balance on manufacturing,
            distribution, financing, and product development. In fact, the man-
            agerial strengths that got him to his position in the first place likely
            had nothing to do with his ability to judge advertising.
               Keep this in mind when you go in to present: It isn’t a client’s job to
            know great work when they see it. They’re generally numbers people.
               Copywriter Dick Wasserman put it this way: “Corporate man-
            agers are inclined towards understatement. They value calm and
            quiet, abhor emotional displays, and do everything possible to make
            decisions in a dispassionate and objective manner. Advertising rubs
            them the wrong way. It is simply too much like show business for
            their taste.”2
               To prevail with an audience like this, Alastair Crompton says,
            “[T]hink like a creative person, but talk like an accountant.”3 Don’t
            defend the work on emotional grounds or on the creativity of the
            execution. (“This visual is, I’m tellin’ you, it’s monstrous. It kills.”)
            Instead say, “This visual, as the focus groups bear out, communi-
            cates durability.” Base your defense on strategy.
               You must be able to strategically track, step-by-step, how you
            arrived at your campaign.That means having all the relevant product/
            market/consumer facts at your fingertips. There’s no such thing as
            bulletproof, but your ads might be able to dodge a few rounds if you
            can keep the conversation on strategy alone. After all, that’s some-
            thing the client had a hand in authoring. It’s a scary thing to do, but let
            the work’s creativity speak for itself.

            Buying creative work is hard. Cut your client some slack.
            Before you get angry at a client for not immediately signing off on
            your brilliant idea, put yourself in his shoes. It’s hard buying cre-
            ative work.
               In a subjective business where there are 30 “right” answers for
            every problem, deciding which ad to go with is, at best, a mix of
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 244

            244                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            business acumen, gut instinct, second-guessing, and a scarecrow in a
            cornfield pointing down two yellow-brick roads.
              Buying creative work is hard. Remember this the next time your
            work is on the table. Help your client by offering rational reasons to
            support what is essentially an emotional decision.

            “They might be right.”
            According to ad legend, Bill Bernbach always carried a little note in
            his jacket pocket. A note he referred to whenever he was having a
            disagreement with a client. In small words, one sentence read,
            “They might be right.”
               Here’s my advice, and it starts a few rungs further down the
            humility ladder: Always enter into any discussion (with clients,
            account executives, anybody) with the belief that there is a 50 per-
            cent chance that you are wrong. I mean, really believe in your heart
            that you could be wrong.
               I think that such a belief adds a strong underpinning of persua-
            siveness to your argument. To listeners, it doesn’t feel like you’re
            forcing your opinion on them.
               I often think of the analogy of the two kinds of ministers I have
            seen. A quiet and anonymous minister at a small church who invites
            me to explore his faith. And the noisy kind I see on TV, sweaty and
            red-faced, telling me the skin’s going to bubble off my soul in hell if
            I don’t repent now.
               Which one is more persuasive to you?

            Listening doesn’t mean saying “yes.”
            Listen, even when you don’t want to. It doesn’t cost you anything to
            listen. It’s polite. And even if you think you disagree, by listening
            you may gather information you can later use to put together a
            more persuasive argument. (As they say: “Diplomacy is the art of
            saying ‘nice doggie” long enough to find a big rock.”)
               I think our culture portrays passive postures (such as listening) as
            losing postures. But I think listening can help you kick butt. Relax.
            Breathe from your stomach. Listen.

            You do not have to solve the problem in the meeting.
            Be like that repair guy you see in the movies. Blow your nose,
            scratch yourself, and say, “Well, looks like I gotta take ’er back to
            the shop.”
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:10 AM    Page 245

                                   Pecked to Death by Ducks                        245

              Seriously. It’s tempting to want to alleviate client concerns by fix-
            ing something on the fly right there in the presentation. If it’s an
            easy and obvious one, well, go ahead. But resist the temptation to
            do any major work there in the room.
              Listen. Note their concerns. Play the concerns back to them so
            they know you heard them. And then say, “Let us come back tomor-
            row and show you how this can work.”
              In The Creative Companion, David Fowler put it this way:

              [For] now, listen to the input you’ve received and solve the problem
              on the terms you’ve been given. Your anger is beside the point right
              now. Once you’ve proven you’re a trooper by returning with thinking
              that follows the input, you can bring up your original idea again. It
              may get a better hearing the second time. Then again, it may have
              been a monkey [of an idea] all along. Or, most likely, you’ll have for-
              gotten all about it, because you’re onto something better.4

            Choose your battles carefully.
            No matter how carefully you prepare your work, no matter how
            impeccable you are about covering every base, crossing every “t,”
            dotting every “i,” the red pencil’s gonna come out. Clients are going
            to mess with your visual and change your copy.
               H.G. Wells wrote, “No passion in the world is equal to the passion
            to alter someone’s draft.”
               We need to pause here for a minute so I can make this point as
            clear to you as I am able. It’s an important one.
               Millions of years of evolution have wired a network of biological
            certainties into the human organism. There is the need to eat. There
            is the need to sleep. And then, right before the need to procreate, is
            the client need to change every ad his agency shows him. This need
            is spinal. Nothing you can do or say, no facts you lay down, no
            prayers you send up, will stop a client from diddling with your con-
            cept. It’s something you need to accept as reality as early in your
            career as you can.
               It didn’t start with you, and it’ll still be going on when some
            Detroit agency takes in the campaign for the new antigravity cars.
            The fact is, we’re in a subjective industry—partly business and
            partly art. Everybody is going to have an opinion. It’s just that the
            clients have paid for the right to have their opinion. Advertising,
            ultimately, is a service industry.
               Consider the drawing reprinted here (Figure 11.2): a client making
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:10 AM    Page 246

            246                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Figure 11.2 Except for the clothes, this 1930 engraving of a client changing
                    a writer’s copy looks like it could have happened yesterday.
                      (© Reprinted with permission of Dartnell Corporation.)

            changes to an ad as a frustrated copywriter looks on. I found it in a
            book called Confessions of a Copywriter, published in 1930 by the
            Dartnell Corporation. That date again—1930.
              They were doing it then, and I suspect they’ve been doing it since
            earliest recorded history. I have this image of a client in Egypt, 3,000
            years before Christ, looking at some hieroglyphs on the walls of the
            pyramids, saying, “I think instead of “               ,” we should say,
            “           .”
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 247

                                  Pecked to Death by Ducks                    247

               Get used to it. Even some of the writing on this page about
            rewriting was rewritten by my publisher’s editor. Nothing is safe.
               I say, if they want to mess around with your body copy, let them.
            If they want to change the colors from red to green, let them. Any
            hieroglyphs they want to change, let them. Protect the pyramid. If
            you get out of there with the big idea intact, consider yourself a
            genius.
               Tom Monahan says, “[Squabbling over body copy and other
            details is] not where the advertising battles are won. Ideas—big, dif-
            ferentiating, selling ideas—are what win. And anything that takes
            away even an ounce of energy from the creating or selling of those
            ideas is misdirected effort.”5
               The moral: Don’t win every battle and lose the war.

                        RESEARCH: BE AFRAID. BE VERY AFRAID.
            Research isn’t science.
            Here’s how advertising works: You toil for weeks to come up with a
            perfect solution to your client’s problem. Then your campaign is
            taken to an anonymous building on the outskirts of town and
            shown to a focus group—people who’ve been stopped on the street
            the previous week, identified as target customers, and paid a small
            amount of money for their opinion.
               After a long day working at their jobs, these tired pedestrians
            arrive at the research facility and are led into a small room without
            windows or hope. In this barren, forlorn little box, they are shown
            your work in its embryonic, half-formed state while you and the
            client watch through a one-way mirror.
               Here’s the amazing part. These people all turn out to be advertis-
            ing experts with piercing insights on why every ad shown them
            should be force-fed into the nearest shredder fast enough to choke
            the chopping blades.
               Yet, who can blame them? They’ve been watching TV since they
            were kids and have been bored by a hundred thousand hours of
            very, very bad commercials. Now it’s payback time, Mr. Madison
            Avenue Goatee Man. And because they’re seeing mere storyboards
            they think, wow, we get to kill the beast and crush its eggs.
               Meanwhile, in the room behind the mirror, the client turns to you
            and says, “Looks like you’re workin’ the weekend, idea boy.”
               Welcome to advertising.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 248

            248                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               A committee, it has been said, is a cul-de-sac down which ideas
            are lured and quietly strangled. The same can be said for the com-
            mittee’s cousin, the focus group. But this research process, however
            wildly capricious and unscientific, is here to stay.
               Clients are used to testing. They test their products. They test
            locations for their stores. They test the new flavor, the packaging,
            and the name on the top. And much of this testing pays off. So don’t
            think they’re going to spend a couple of million dollars airing a
            commercial based solely on your sage advice: “Hey, business dudes,
            I think this spot rocks.”
               Used correctly, research is great. What better way is there to get
            inside the customer’s head? To be what Marshall McLuhan called
            the “frog men of the mind” and find out what people like and
            don’t like, to understand how they live. There is no better way.
            Most of the good research isn’t done in little buildings outside of
            town, either, but right downtown in the bars, asking drinkers
            about their favorite booze, asking shoppers how they choose a
            product, eavesdropping on real people as they talk about a cate-
            gory or a brand.
               The thing is, the best people in the business use research to gen-
            erate ideas, not to judge them. They use it at the beginning of the
            whole advertising process to find out what to say. When it’s used to
            determine how to say it, great ideas suffer horribly.
               Should your work suffer at the hands of a focus group, and it will,
            there isn’t much you can do except appeal to the better angels of
            your client’s nature.
               What follows are some arguments against the reading of sheep
            entrails. Or the subjective science of copy testing.

            Testing storyboards doesn’t work.
            Testing, by its very nature, looks for what is wrong with a commer-
            cial, not what is right. Look hard enough for something wrong and
            you’ll sure enough find it. (I could stare at a picture of Miss
            November and in a half hour I’d start to notice, is that some broc-
            coli in her teeth? Look, right there between the lateral incisor and
            left canine, see?)
               Testing assumes that people react intellectually to commercials,
            that people watching TV in their living rooms dissect and analyze
            these interruptions of their sitcoms. (“Honey, come in here. I
            think these TV people are forwarding an argument that doesn’t
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:10 AM   Page 249

                                   Pecked to Death by Ducks                     249

            track logically. Bring a pen and paper.”) In reality, both you and I
            know their reactions are visceral and instantaneous.
               Testing is inaccurate because storyboards don’t have the magic of
            finished commercials. Would a focus group approve this copy had it
            just been read to them? “Chestnuts roasting on an open fire. Jack
            Frost nipping at your nose.” Probably not. I can just see a focus
            group member putting down his doughnut to protest: “I hate those
            chestnut things. And also, who wants to sing about wind chill? Can’t
            the song be about something happy?” But in spite of the lyrics, gen-
            erations of people love this song.
               Testing is inaccurate because customers simply do not know what
            they’ll like until they see it out in the world. It’s like what William
            Goldman said about movies and Hollywood: “Nobody knows what
            works.” If we did, every movie would be a blockbuster.
               Testing rewards commercials that are vague and fuzzy because
            vague and fuzzy doesn’t challenge the viewer.
               Testing rewards commercials that are derivative because com-
            mercials that have a familiar feel score better than commercials that
            are unique, strange, odd, or new. The very qualities that can lift a fin-
            ished commercial above the television clutter.
               If tone is important to a client, testing is inaccurate because 12
            colored pictures pasted to a board will never communicate tone like
            actual film footage, voice-over, and music.
               Testing, no matter how well disguised, asks consumers to be
            advertising experts. And invariably they feel obligated to prove it.
               Finally, testing assumes we really know what makes a commercial
            work and that it can be quantifiably analyzed. You can’t. Not in my
            opinion. It’s impossible to measure a live snake.
               Bill Bernbach said, “We are so busy measuring public opinion, we
            forget we can mold it. We are so busy listening to statistics that we
            forget we can create them.” This simple truth about advertising is
            lost the minute a focus group sits down to do its business. In those
            small rooms, the power of advertising to affect behavior is not only
            subverted, it’s reversed. The dynamic of a commercial coming out of
            the television to consumers is replaced with consumers telling the
            commercial what to say.
               I say, big deal if a group says your storyboard doesn’t reflect their
            opinions. With a good director and a couple of airings on the right
            programs, their opinions may reflect your commercial’s.
               These arguments, for what they are worth, might come in handy
            someday, especially if you have a client who likes the commercial
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp       1/2/08     10:10 AM      Page 250

            250                      “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            you propose, but has to defend poor test scores to a management
            committee.*

            Extensive research has proven that extensive research
            is often wrong.
            From a book called Radio Advertising by Bob Schulberg, I bring
            this research study to your attention:

               J. Walter Thompson did recall studies on commercials that ran dur-
               ing a heavily-viewed mini-series, “The Winds of War.” The survey
               showed that 19 percent of the respondents recalled Volkswagen com-
               mercials; 32 percent, Kodak; 32 percent, Prudential; 28 percent
               American Express; and 16 percent Mobil Oil. The catch is that none
               of these companies advertised on “The Winds of War.”6

                In the mid-1980s, research told management of the Coca-Cola
            company that younger people preferred a sweeter, more Pepsi-like
            taste. Overlooking fierce customer loyalty to this century-old bat-
            tleship of a brand, they reformulated Coca-Cola into New Coke,
            and in the process packed about $1 billion down a rat hole.
               “We forget we can mold it.”
               Research people told writer Hal Riney that entering the wine
            cooler category was a big mistake. Seagram’s and California Cooler
            had it locked up. Then Riney began running his Bartles & Jaymes
            commercials, and a year later his client had the number one wine
            cooler in America.
               “We forget we can mold it.”
               Research people told writer Cliff Freeman when he was working
            on Wendy’s hamburgers, “Under absolutely no circumstances run
            ‘Where’s the Beef?’ ”After it ran, sales shot up 25 percent for the year
            and Wendy’s moved from fifth to third place in fast-food sales. The
            20,000 newspaper articles lauding the commercial didn’t hurt, either.
               “We forget we can mold it.”
               And what some call the greatest campaign of the 20th century,
            Volkswagen—none of it was subjected to pretesting. The man who
            helped produce that Volkswagen campaign had a saying: “We are so
            busy measuring public opinion, we forget we can mold it.”

            *For more information about the pitfalls of testing concepts, I refer you to Jon Steel’s
            excellent book on planning, Truth, Lies, and Advertising: The Art of Account Planning
            (John Wiley & Sons, 1998). In particular I direct you to Chapter 6: “Ten Housewives in
            Des Moines—The Perils of Researching Rough Creative Ideas.”
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:10 AM    Page 251

                                    Pecked to Death by Ducks                         251

            Because focus groups can prove anything, do they
            prove anything?
            British ad star Tim Delaney, in a famous article on the value of intu-
            ition, wrote:

              Have you noticed what happens when five agencies are competing
              for an account? They all come up with completely different strategies
              and ideas—and yet, miraculously, each of them is able to prove,
              through objective research, that their solution is the right one. If
              nothing else does, this alone should devalue the currency of focus
              groups. . . . Researchers think that if you spend a lot of time analyzing
              a problem beforehand, it will bring you closer to the advertising solu-
              tion. But the truth is, you only really begin to crack advertising prob-
              lems as you get deeper and deeper into the writing. You just have to
              sit down and start writing on some kind of pretext—and that initiates
              the flow of ideas that eventually brings a solution. In [my] agency, we
              start writing as early as possible, before the researchers have done
              their analysis. And we usually find that the researchers are always
              trailing behind us, telling us things we’ve already thought of.7

               The writing itself is the solution to the problem. It’s in the writing
            itself that the answers appear, when you’re in there getting your
            hands dirty mucking about in the mud of the client’s marketing
            reality. The answers are right there in that place where there’s direct
            contact between the patient and the doctor. And if the doctor has a
            question about how to proceed, who would you want him to ask for
            advice? A focus group of grocers, lawyers, and cab drivers?
            Personally, I’d want it to be another doctor.
               I have a friend who walks around the agency trying to find out if
            a concept he’s done is any good. He keeps going around until the
            “It’s cool” votes outnumber the “It sucks.” Sometimes he doesn’t
            get the answer he wants and keeps working.
               You know what? In my opinion, it’s the only pretesting that
            works. The agency hallway.

            Science cannot breathe life into something. Dr. Frankenstein
            tried this already.
            David Ogilvy once said that research is often used the way a drunk
            uses a lamppost: for support rather than illumination. It’s research
            used to protect preconceived ideas, not to explore new ones.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   2:52 PM   Page 252

            252                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               Another way that research can be used poorly is what I call
            Permission Research. Permission Research happens when agencies
            show advertising concepts to customers and ask if they like them or
            not. (“Man, it would be really great if you guys all say you like this,
            ’cause then we can put it on TV. C’mon, whattaya say?”)
               What’s unfortunate about Permission Research is that it’s often
            used by clients and agencies to validate terrible advertising. Yes, it
            all looks and sounds like science, but as prudent as such market
            inquiries appear on the surface, the argument is specious. Because
            the very process of Permission Research and all its attendant con-
            sensus and compromise will grind the work into either vanilla or
            nonsense.
               As an example of what the process of Permission Research can
            do, I cite an interesting and very funny study done in 1997 by a pair
            of Russian cultural anthropologists—Vitaly Komar and Alexander
            Melamid.8 With tongue firmly planted in cheek, these two
            researchers set out to ask the public, “What makes for a perfect
            painting? What does a painting need to have in order for you to
            want to hang it in your home?”
               They did massive amounts of research, hosting hundreds of focus
            groups all over the world. Their findings, meticulously prepared and
            double-checked with customers, were as follows: 88 percent of

              Figure 11.3 Here’s what happens when you ask customers to art-direct
                      a painting. And yes, that’s George Washington standing
                                 to the left of a modern-day family.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 253

                                 Pecked to Death by Ducks                    253

            customers told them, “We like paintings that feature outdoor
            scenes.” The color blue was preferred by 44 percent of respondents.
            “Having a famous person” in the painting got the thumbs-up from a
            full 50 percent. Fall was the preferred season. And animals! You
            gotta have some animals.
              All this research was compiled, and an actual painting was com-
            missioned. The final “art” that came out of the lab (to nobody’s sur-
            prise) was very bad, as you can see here (Figure 11.3).
              The point? Research is best used to help craft a strategy, not an
            execution. As journalist William F. Buckley once observed, “You
            cannot paint the Mona Lisa by assigning one dab each to a thou-
            sand painters.”

                               PROTECTING YOUR WORK.
            Well, so much for research. If your concept manages to limp out of
            the focus groups alive, congratulations.
               But even if your idea fares well in tests, if it’s new and unusual
            the client is still likely to squirm. As the scientist W.I. Beveridge
            noted, “The human mind likes a strange idea as little as the body
            likes a strange protein and resists it with a similar energy.”
               Even if they like your idea, they’ll begin suggesting “minor
            changes.” The Chinese call this “the Death of a Thousand Cuts.”
            Minor changes kill great ads, very slowly and with incredible pain.
            By the time they’ve inflicted their thousandth minor change, both
            you and your ad will be begging for a swift bullet to the head.
               Sometimes you’re going to need to deliver that bullet yourself. If
            client changes have hurt your original idea, pull the trigger. You
            think it’s hard to look at your “fixed” ad on a layout pad? Wait till
            you see it as a spread in Time magazine.
               Over the years, I’ve heard clients bring up the same minor
            changes time and again. Here are a few of them.

            Your client asks that you feature more than one product
            or benefit.
            Clients often ask for an ad to tout their full line of fine products.
            Who can blame them? The page they’re buying seems roomy
            enough to throw in five or six more things besides your snappy little
            idea, doesn’t it? But full-line ads are effective only as magazine
            thickener, nothing else.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 254

            254                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               The reason is simple. Customers never go shopping for full lines
            of products. I don’t. Do you? (“Honey, start the car. We’re going to
            the mall to buy everything.”) Customers have specific needs. It
            stands to reason that ads addressing specific needs are more effec-
            tive. There’s that old saying, “The hunter who chases two rabbits
            catches neither.”
               Smart companies know this. Coca-Cola owns nearly 80 brands of
            soft drinks, but they’ve never run an ad for all of them with some
            catchall claim like, “Bubbly, sugar-based liquids in a variety of vastly
            different tastes for all your thirst needs.”
               So if your client says he has three important things to say, tell the
            account executive the client needs three ads.
               If that doesn’t work, perhaps you’ll just have to convince your
            client that there’s a certain part of the audience that he’s just not
            going to reach. Filling his ad with extraneous claims or peripheral
            products may attract some of this fringe audience, but the dilution
            will be at the cost of the main audience he needs most.
               It’s this simple: You can’t pound in a nail that’s lying on its side.

            Somebody says, “Negative headlines are wrong.”
            Well, you can start by pointing out that what he just said was nega-
            tive but communicated his position quite respectably. But there are
            some other rebuttals you can try.
               Take a look at the photograph reprinted here (Figure 11.4). It’s a
            very positive image, isn’t it? There’s happiness and cheerful cama-
            raderie all around, and everybody’s enjoying the client’s fine prod-
            uct. It’s also so boring I want to saw off my right foot just so I can
            feel something, feel anything.
               It’s boring because there is no tension in the picture. No question
            left unanswered. No story. No drama. And consequently, no
            interest.
               Perhaps you could begin by explaining to your client that one of
            the basic tenets of drama (and we are indeed in the business of dra-
            matizing the benefits of our clients’ products) is conflict. The bad
            guy (competition) moseys into town, kicks open the saloon door,
            and Cowboy Bob (your client) looks up from his card game.
               Conflict ⫽ drama ⫽ interest. Without it, you have no story to tell.
            No friction between the tire and the road. No beginning, middle, or
            end. And consequently, no interest.
               “Humorists have always made trouble pay,” said E.B.White.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 255

                                  Pecked to Death by Ducks                     255

             Figure 11.4 Q: “Why can’t you do something positive?” A: This is why.

               The brutal truth is that people don’t slow down to look at the
            highway, they slow down to look at the highway accident. Maybe
            we’re ashamed to admit that, but trouble and conflict are always
            riveting.
               The thing to remember about trouble and conflict in a commer-
            cial is this: As long as your client’s product is ultimately portrayed
            in a positive light or is seen to solve a customer problem, the net
            takeaway is positive.
               As Tom Monahan pointed out, “The true communication isn’t
            what you say. It’s what the receiver takes away.”9
               Here are some other arguments you might try on an intransigent
            client.
               Remind your client that one of the biggest success stories in mar-
            keting textbooks is Federal Express, a tiny outfit in Memphis that
            became an international commodity. This company owes its success
            almost entirely to a series of television commercials featuring terri-
            ble conflict—things going wrong, packages arriving late, nitwits get-
            ting fired.
               Tell your client about a small classified ad that ran in 1900. (This
            is another story stolen from Neil French.) The ad read: “Men
            wanted for Hazardous Journey. Small wages, bitter cold, long
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 256

            256                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            months of complete darkness, constant danger, safe return doubt-
            ful. Honor and recognition in case of success—Ernest Shackleton.”
               When the famous explorer placed this ad looking for fellow
            adventurers to trek with him in search of the South Pole, he
            received many responses. Should it instead have read “Happy snow
            bunnies needed for Popsicle Party”? Probably not. It worked
            because readers were piqued by the honesty of the ad and the chal-
            lenge of the imminent journey.
               If that doesn’t convince your client, try this one from copywriter
            Jim Durfee: “Would you call the following statement positive or
            negative: ‘Don’t step back or you’ll fall off the cliff’.”
               Negatives have power. Try writing the Ten Commandments posi-
            tively. If you did, I bet it wouldn’t all fit on two stone tablets.
            Negatives are a linguistic construction we’re all familiar with, one
            we’ve been hearing since we were caught dangling the cat over the
            baby. They’re neither good nor bad; they are merely an executional
            detail.
               So try to keep your client from focusing on the details. It isn’t the
            details customers remember anyway. If you look at most day-after
            testing results, you’ll find that customers may not remember a sin-
            gle word of a commercial. Just the main idea and what’s good about
            the product—which is all that matters.

            Somebody says, “Our competitors could run that same ad!”
            They’ll usually go on to say, “If you cover up our logo, this could be
            the other guys’ ad.”
               “We said it first” is the simple answer. “Their logo isn’t down
            there. Yours is.”
               Sometimes clients need to be reminded that their product isn’t
            substantially different from the competition’s. All that may distin-
            guish the two is the advertising you propose. Nothing else.
               Your client needs to see that while there’s no explicit claim in the
            ad different from what his competitor might be able to say, the ad
            and its execution have many implicit messages the client can call his
            own. Whether it’s the strategy, the concept, the tone, or the look of
            the campaign—together, they are giving the client a personality like
            no other.
               Don’t force your hand, though. If you can get the client to find in
            their product a unique selling proposition, all the better. Agree to
            start over if any significant difference can be found.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 257

                                 Pecked to Death by Ducks                    257

              If not, you need to get your client to see that execution can be
            content and that personality can be proprietary. They’re called pre-
            emptive claims—claims any competitor could’ve made had they
            moved fast enough. Your client may see that it’s simply a matter of
            which company’s going to get first dibs on the ground staked out by
            your concept.
              It comes down to “We were here first.”
              It’s been pointed out many times that it could’ve just as easily
            been “Winston Country.” But Marlboro got there first.

            They ask you to print the phone number in big, bold type.
            Ask if they’d also like to have their number shouted in radio spots.
            Will people be more likely to call the number if we scream it at
            them? No? Then why do it in print?
               If readers want your phone number after seeing the ad, they’ll
            get it. From the ad, from the phone book, or from 411—somehow
            they’ll get it.
               Picture this: A woman (man) at a bar slides a folded matchbook
            across the mahogany and under your napkin. You open it and see a
            phone number. Are you more likely to call if the number is written
            in inch-thick numerals with a fat red crayon? Of course not.
               Yes, the phone number should be in there, probably in the last
            sentence or maybe by the logo. But advise the client that trans-
            mogrifying the type so you can needlessly shriek a phone number is
            not only desperate and without class, it adds yet another element to
            a crowded space and can only hurt the effectiveness of an ad.

            Somebody asks, “Why are you wasting 25 seconds of my
            TV spot entertaining people?”
            Other ways clients ask this is, “Can we mention the product
            sooner?” Or “Can’t we just get to the point?”
               This is a client who mistakenly believes that people watch televi-
            sion to see his commercial. (“Honey, get in here! The commercial’s
            almost on!”)
               There is no entitlement to the customer’s attention. It is earned.
               And make no mistake, we’re not starting from zero with cus-
            tomers. Thanks to Whipple, Snuggles, and “Digger” the dermato-
            phyte nail fungus, we’re starting at less than zero. There is a high
            wall around every customer. And every day another brick is added.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp    1/11/08    11:35 AM    Page 258

            258                   “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               You need to get your client to see that those 25 seconds of
            “wasted” time in the commercial are his ticket through the gate.
            You’re not welcome until customers like you.And they won’t like you
            until they listen to you. And they won’t listen to you if you open your
            pitch with bulleted copy points of your product’s superiority.
               To visit the door-to-door salesman analogy again, you can’t just
            dispense with knocking on the door. Clients who say, “Let’s lose all
            that entertainment stuff” are really saying, “Forget the introducing
            ourselves at the door. Forget that doorbell crap, too. In fact, let’s just
            jimmy the lock with a brochure and barge into their kitchen with a
            fistful of facts. We’ll make ’em listen.”
               You can’t. You’re not welcome until they like you. Ring the door-
            bell and straighten your tie.

            Your client takes your concept literally.
            This is a hard one.
              Let’s use one of Cliff Freeman’s hilarious Little Caesars pizza
            spots as an example (Figure 11.5)—the ones featuring the famous

                     Figure 11.5 Out in TV-Land, nobody ever wondered,
                  “Gosh, if Little Caesars cheese stretches that much, doesn’t that
                    mean it’s kind of rubbery? Let’s go to Domino’s instead.”
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 259

                                  Pecked to Death by Ducks                     259

            “stretchy cheese.” In these spots, goofy-looking customers pull
            slices of pizza out of the box and attempt to carry them away to
            their supper table. The cheese, connecting the slice with the pizza
            still in the box, stretches like a rubber band, snaps them back, usu-
            ally causing some sort of cartoon injury along the way.
               “Well, I don’t know,” says the client. “Our cheese doesn’t really
            stretch that far. And if it never breaks, doesn’t that mean it’s kind of
            rubbery?”
               The client is taking the storyboard literally. It would be pleasant
            if simply pointing that out would make the client say, “Oh, my mis-
            take. By all means, produce the spots.” This is known as a
            hallucination.
               What the client needs is someone to shift his paradigm so that he
            can see the commercials as a TV viewer does and not as the product
            manager of a large corporation.
               But first, back him up.
               Is it agreed that the job of advertising is to dramatize the benefit
            of the product? (In this case, the extra helpings of cheese.) Not
            show the benefit, dramatize the benefit. If showing the benefit is the
            goal, we need only picture someone holding a slice of pizza and say-
            ing, “Look at all this extra cheese. Now that’s value.” We could also
            throw our money down the middle hole of an outhouse and achieve
            the same effect, since no one will watch or remember Smiley Pizza
            Man.
               So it’s agreed that dramatizing the benefit is our goal?
               “Yes, but the cheese never breaks,” says the client. “Maybe the
            stretching part is funny, but rubbery cheese is no good. I’m telling
            you, I’ve been in food services for 15 years and I’ve watched focus
            groups and heard customers say those very words.”
               Here’s where the client needs to take a leap of faith. Take his
            hand. Lean out over the precipice and tell him this: “In TV-Land,
            the rules are different.”
               And jump.
               The rules of acceptable logic are different in TV-Land. Not only
            do viewers know the rules are different, they expect them to be. If
            the rules aren’t different, they might as well be watching the news.
            TV-Land is not reality. It is entertainment. Television is watched by
            tired people needing escape from reality.
               In reality, cops don’t catch the bad guy. In TV-Land, they do. In
            reality, coyotes kill roadrunners. In TV-Land, coyotes end up under
            the big Acme-brand anvil.
               And while rubbery cheese isn’t appetizing in reality, in TV-Land
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:10 AM    Page 260

            260                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            the comic device of stretchy cheese that’s both rubbery and deli-
            cious is perfectly acceptable logic. The device, one the viewer tacitly
            knows is created for entertainment, transcends all reality-based
            concerns about edibility, leapfrogs all taste issues of rubbery/non-
            rubbery cheese, and lands with a big, welcome splash in the mind of
            the customer with its intended message—this pizza has lots of
            yummy cheese.
               The rules are different in TV, but they’re still rules. You must
            obey them as long as you wish to retain the attention of your audi-
            ence. Stretchy cheese, rubber logic, and other dramatic devices are
            the accepted currency in TV-Land. They are the only way to com-
            municate what is often a bland corporate message.
               In fact, that rubbery cartoon cheese is a bland corporate message
            (“Our pizza has more cheese”), but one that’s seen through the fun-
            house prisms of TV-Land. At a certain level, all corporate messages
            that show up in TV-Land are bland because they weren’t invited. In
            order to come to the table, the ante is entertainment.
               But the chasm between the cool fluorescent lights of America’s
            corporate meeting rooms and the play-school colors of TV enter-
            tainment is deep and wide. It takes a client who’s either imaginative
            or brave to make the leap. Clearly, Little Caesars was both.
               In a wonderful book for clients called That’s Our New Ad
            Campaign?, Dick Wasserman takes on this sticky issue:

              When [clients] evaluate advertising executions, they do not under-
              stand that consumers react to ads in a generalized, unanalytical, emo-
              tional way. . . . Consumers are much more imaginative than many
              advertisers are willing to give them credit for. Readers and viewers
              do not have to be led by the hand to understand what a client’s adver-
              tising is getting at. All they need is a couple of key verbal and visual
              guideposts, and they are quite capable of filling in the blanks.10

               Your client will be uncomfortable in TV-Land. Once you get back
            to the safety of the conference room, you need to convince him that
            the literal approach is actually riskier than obeying the wacky rules
            of TV. A literal approach, where you simply tell the client’s story is,
            as Wasserman says, a speech; what viewers want is a play.
               Your client may be agreeing with you at this point, but he’s not
            going to like it. He’s going to be like that one guy in every disaster
            movie, up to his knees in mud but still checking his hair in the mir-
            ror. He is out of his element.
               Remind him his discomfort is natural. This isn’t Wall Street. But it
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 261

                                  Pecked to Death by Ducks                     261

            isn’t Sesame Street, either. It’s the intersection—that place where
            the odd bedfellows of business and advertising meet. The corner of
            Art and Commerce.
               Bill Bernbach was perhaps talking to this same kind of client
            when he said: “Is creativity some obscure, esoteric art form? Not on
            your life. It’s the most practical thing a business [person] can
            employ.”11

            Somebody asks, “Why do you have to cast such goofy-looking
            characters for my TV spot?”
            We’re talking about those concepts where some kind of nerd or
            schmuck or victim is key to the execution, not those spots where a
            normal-looking everyday Joe will suffice.
               When a client has a problem with the casting, it’s usually because
            he’s taking the commercial literally. Often at the root of it is a fear
            that your commercial is making fun of his customers.
               Some clients seem to think their customers can’t relate to anyone
            who doesn’t look like them. (I’m tempted to ask, “Then why are
            you wearing a suit you first saw in a store window worn by a brain-
            less, bald-headed mannequin?” A workable analogy, but probably
            not a good idea.)
               You need to convince them that the same rules of TV-Land apply
            to the actors in commercials.
               To be even allowed into TV-Land, and welcomed into America’s
            living rooms, your characters must have some scratch, something
            about them that’s funny or unusual. Viewers are either bored by or
            secretly angry at nice-looking models with good haircuts. (Or
            “AMWs,” as they’re called in Los Angeles—actress, model, what-
            ever.)
               Tell your client that viewers weren’t offended by that slightly
            overweight geek who was knocked around the room by the pizza
            with stretchy cheese.
               Viewers weren’t offended by the jacklegs, yes-men, and bootlicks
            that made up Federal Express’s confederacy of dunces. The late
            Patrick Kelly, who wrote the FedEx spots, said, “People identify with
            the schlemiel. We’ve all been that way at one time or another. . . . The
            identification comes on a subconscious level. At the conscious level,
            we see the idiot as someone else.”12
               What will offend viewers is having their sitcom or football game
            interrupted by a cheerful Stepford Wife lip-reading a cue card full
            of benefits. They want to be en-ter-tained.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:10 AM   Page 262

            262                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               Your client needs to be reminded that when it comes to mass
            communication, all customers are smart. Even a mouth-breather
            in a trailer park watching commercials on a stolen TV set with tin-
            foil on the antenna knows the rules of TV-Land. He was raised on
            them.
               And the truth be known, there are a lot of funny-looking people
            out there in Real Life Land.

            Your client says (as the law requires them to), “Can you make
            the logo bigger?”
            Clients are about their logos like guys are about their . . . you know.
               They love talking about them. They love to look at them. They
            want you to look at them. They think the bigger they are, the more
            effective they are. And they try to sneak looks at other guys’ logos
            when they can.
               But as any woman will tell you, nobody cares.
               Just the same, when you swagger into a client’s boardroom with a
            full-page newspaper ad punctuated by a logo you could cover with
            a dime, fur’s gonna fly.
               I remember we had one client who called the agency, very angry.
            He had just seen an outdoor board our agency had done for his
            company, and he couldn’t see the logo very well.
               “Uh-oh,” said the account executive who fielded the call. “Where
            did you see this billboard?”
               From a plane.
               The client was angry because he couldn’t see his logo from a
            plane as it circled LaGuardia airport.
               But let’s back up a little. If your client has a problem with the size
            of the logo, ask him first, “Do you agree the ad is good? Is it strate-
            gically correct and creatively memorable?” It is?
               If it’s agreed the ad successfully stops readers and engages them
            with an offer that intrigues, what do you suppose the readers will
            look for next? It’s doubtful they’ll look at the logo of some other
            ad. It’s doubtful they’ll take their attention off the leash and let it
            wander into the park like a stray dog. There’s a dynamic involved
            here. The readers have just seen something they want. Where can
            they get it? The logo. Unless you’re using a watermark, readers will
            almost certainly find it, no matter what its size.
               “But why can’t you just make it a little bigger? What does it
            hurt?”
               It’s a matter of taste. The Latin saying is De gustibus non est
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 263

                                  Pecked to Death by Ducks                    263

            disputandum. “Taste cannot be disputed.” But, forget Cicero; let’s
            dispute.
               In every ad there are explicit and implicit messages, both equally
            important. The explicit message is what the headline and visual are
            saying. But implicitly, the layout of the ad is sending many messages
            about the quality of the product, about the class, the demeanor, the
            personality of your client. They are all subtle. And while explicit
            messages can sometimes be adjusted with a wrench, implicit mes-
            sages need an expert’s touch.
               Your client needs to know that the art director’s decision to make
            the logo the size it is was arrived at after careful consideration of
            these implicit messages. Too much logo and the ad becomes a used-
            car salesman. Increase the size of the logo a little more and the
            lapels on his suit become wider; increase it again and the plaid of his
            coat becomes louder.
               The biggest logo I’ve ever seen towered 20 stories over Times
            Square: a giant Prudential logo, easily 30 yards square. No sales
            message, no headline, just yards and yards of blue logo. When peo-
            ple look up and sees this giant logo, what are they to do with the
            information? Would it be more relevant or more persuasive if it
            were 50 yards square? Ooooh, what if we made it a hundred yards
            square?
               Where is it written that large logos increase sales? When intro-
            ducing yourself, do you say your name in a booming voice? “Hi, my
            name is

                                                                         ”

              Do the large bottles of Coke with bigger logos sell faster than the
            cans? Are your business cards the size of welcome mats? If cattle-
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 264

            264                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            men heated immense brands and seared the entire sides of cows,
            would fewer be rustled?
               Ads without any logos at all are often the most powerful. I know,
            clients aren’t likely to buy this argument, but it’s valid nevertheless.
            A logo says, “I’m an ad!” and an ad says, “Turn the page!” But an
            intriguing message without any logo to defuse it can be a riveting
            interruption to a magazine. It doesn’t say, “This message brought to
            you by . . .” It says, “This message.” Some of the most effective ads
            I’ve ever seen worked without the benefit of a logo. Three of them
            are in this book.
               The reason they worked is that customers don’t buy company
            logos. They buy benefits. If an ad successfully communicates bene-
            fit, logo size is relevant only in terms of quality of design, something
            best left to the art director’s well-trained eye—his intuition.
               Find a way to give the client a gentle reminder that this intangi-
            ble thing, this intuition, is our business. Ask him if he would pre-
            sume to tell his doctor what the diagnosis should be and what
            prescription to write. Or if he would instruct his lawyer in the
            nuances of contract law. I know I wouldn’t.
               I won’t even tell the trashman not to lift the garbage can with his
            back. I figure he knows what he’s doing.

            Your client gets a few letters from “offended” customers
            and pulls the campaign.
            Many clients worry that their ad may offend somebody, somewhere.
            And they begin yanking commercials off the air after they receive
            one or two phone calls about the commercial. Or they begin telling
            their ad agencies to write everything in such a way that not one soul
            in a country of 250 million will find a scintilla of impropriety.
               This is advertising by fascism, pure and simple. The marketing
            plan to the many, overruled by the pious sensibilities of the few. It is
            a form of political correctness, which is itself a politically correct
            word for fascism. It may be Fascism Lite, but it’s still book burning,
            only we’re burning them one adjective, one headline, and one script
            at a time.
               Don’t give in. Tell the truth and run.
               In the next ad you craft, say what you think is the right thing.
            Remember, your job is to sell the client’s wares to as many people
            as you can. To appeal to the masses, not the minority. Tell the truth
            and run. And let the chronically offended pen their lugubrious let-
            ters. Let them whine.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:10 AM    Page 265

                                   Pecked to Death by Ducks                       265

                The trick will be to get your client to see what a quark-size
            minority these Kleenex-dabbing, career whiners are. The way I put
            it: “The letter flooded in.” Hey, it’s a letter, not Omaha Beach.
                I say: B-F-D. The letter flooded in. Fine. Even if it’s a hundred let-
            ters, big deal. Smart clients know they’ll get angry letters just for
            hanging out their shingle. You build a factory, you get a letter. Sell a
            product, get a letter. I’ll wager you could publish the cure for AIDS
            in tomorrow’s paper and by Friday you’ll get a missive scribbled in
            crayon on the back of a Burger King place mat from someone
            sniveling, “Why didn’t you cure cancer first?”
                Advise your client to run the ad. The world, amazingly, will not
            stop. 99.99 percent of the people who see the ad will somehow man-
            age to get on with their lives. The other .01 percent will turn down
            the volume of whatever wrestling show they’re watching and reach
            for the nearest number 10 envelope. Fine. Let them mewl.
                To soften the ad in advance or pull the ad once it’s run is to sur-
            render your company’s marketing to a consumer group you could
            fit in a phone booth—an angry clutch of stamp-licking busybodies
            with nothing better to do than peruse Redbook magazine for imag-
            ined slights to their piety. Ask your client, “Do you want your com-
            pany being run out of a church basement? Do you want to give
            every pursed-lipped, pen-wielding, moral policeman with a roll of
            stamps free rein to sit on your board of directors and dictate mar-
            keting plans?”
                Tell your client these people are the minority. That’s the fraction
            with the “1” above the line and the really big number on the bot-
            tom. And this is America. Where the Constitution says in so many
            big, fancy words, “What the majority says, goes.”

            Outlast the objections.
            I hope that having one or two of these counterarguments tucked
            away in your quiver helps you save an ad one day. But the reality of
            this business is that sometimes nothing you can do or say is going to
            pull an ad out of the fire. If a client doesn’t like it, it’s going to die.
               The reasons clients have for not liking an ad often defy analysis. I
            once saw a client kill an ad because it pictured a blue flyswatter.
            Why the client killed it, he wouldn’t say. “Just consider it dead.”
            When pressed for an explanation months later, he implied that he’d
            had a “bad experience” with a blue flyswatter as a child. The room
            grew quiet and we changed the subject.
               So get ready for it.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:10 AM   Page 266

            266                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               All is not lost, though. You have one last weapon in your arsenal:
            persistence. I once read that the definition of success is simply get-
            ting up one more time than you fall.
               To that end, I urge you to simply outlast the client. I don’t mean
            digging in your heels, but rolling past their resistance like a stream
            around a rock. I once did 13 campaigns on one assignment for a
            very difficult client. Thirteen different campaigns over the period of
            a year, and each one was killed for increasingly irrational reasons.
            But each campaign we came back with was good.
               They kept killing them, but they killed the campaign only 13 times.
            The thing is, we presented 14.

            Remember who the enemy is.
            Lest these last few pages give the impression I think the client is
            the enemy, they’re not. Remember, the enemy is the client’s
            competition—the other guys across town with the scummy, over-
            priced products. But like any marriage, there are going to be argu-
            ments with your client. Unlike marriage, in advertising you can
            actually win some.

                                 PICKING UP THE PIECES.
            There’s always another ad.
            Instead of fighting, here’s another idea. After you come up with an
            idea, do what Mark Fenske told me. “Pat it on the rear and say
            ‘Good luck, little buddy’ and send it on its way.” Mark believes you
            shouldn’t make a career of protecting work. Alex Bogusky has said
            the same thing. He says the agency is an idea factory. “You don’t
            like this one? Fine. We’ll make more.” Maybe they’re right. Perhaps
            the best thing to do in the end is this: Come up with an idea and
            then walk away. There’s going to be another opportunity to do a
            great ad tomorrow.

            Don’t lose vigilance when work is approved.
            I find that when I have sold an ad I didn’t think I’d ever sell, I become
            so happy I lose my critical faculties and blithely allow the ad to go off
            into production unescorted. I forget to keep sweating the details.
               Moral: Don’t fumble in the end zone.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 267

                                  Pecked to Death by Ducks                    267

            Don’t get depressed when work is killed.
            The ads you come back with are usually better. And when you’re
            feeling down in the dumps, remember that nothing gets you back on
            your feet faster than a great campaign.
               Sometimes the playing field changes when a campaign is killed.
            For one thing, you know more now about what the client wants.
            Also, you’ll probably be left with a shorter deadline. A curse, but a
            blessing, too. A time crunch may force a client to buy your next
            campaign. If the media’s been bought, they may have to buy your
            ideas. So make it great.
               A short deadline also has remarkable motivating properties.
            Someone once told me that the best amphetamine is a ticking clock.
               If they don’t buy number two or three or four, hang in there. The
            highs in the business are very high and the lows very low. Learn not
            to take either one too seriously.
               James Michener once observed, “Character consists of what you
            do on the third and fourth tries.”

            After you’ve totaled a car, you can still salvage stuff
            out of the trunk.
            Okay, so the client killed everything. (I actually had an account
            executive come back from a meeting and say, “They approved the
            size of the ads!” Yaaaay.) But you know what? You can still get
            something out of the deal.
               If you’re part of the presentation, you can at least improve your
            relationship with the client. I don’t think there’s any client who
            actually enjoys killing work. Ask any creative director; it’s easier to
            say yes and avoid the confrontation. They know you’ve worked
            hard on it. But remember, they’re not completely without insight
            into what sells their product.
               If you can take the loss like a professional and still sit there and
            be your same funny self and ask, okay, so what the hell do you
            want?, you can build rapport. They’re going to like you for it. And
            they’re going to trust you more the second time around.

            Even if your work is killed, produce it.
            This is another piece of advice from Mark Fenske. If you’re working
            at an agency where most of your stuff is fed to the Foamcore
            Furnace, you need to begin worrying now what you’re going to
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 268

            268                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            show at your next interview. (“Well, see, the client really sucked and
            they made me do this one. . . . And this one, too. . . . Yeah, but I had
            this other idea, no really, you shoulda seen it, . . . Hey, why are we
            walking to the elevators?”) If you can somehow get to tight layouts,
            even on the dead ads, at least you’ll have something to show a
            prospective CD what you’re capable of.

            If you’re not producing agency work, do freelance.
            This is dicey advice. Some agencies don’t like it. They figured they
            invited you to the dance, you should dance with them.
               But you do have to watch out for yourself. You need to keep
            adding to your portfolio. So if you find yourself in an agency that’s
            producing only meeting fodder, foamcore, and rewrites, maybe it’s
            fair to flirt with a small client who needs a few ads. Just don’t pin it
            up in the company break room.
               Not only will doing the occasional freelance campaign keep your
            book fresh, it can keep your hopes alive, keep you excited about the
            possibilities of this business.

            Keep a file of great dead ideas.
            I’ve referred back to mine many times and have reanimated lots of
            old ideas, sometimes for the same client that originally killed them.
            I know many creative people who do all their writing in big, fat
            blank books that they put on the shelf when the books are full.
            Nothing gets thrown away. Except by clients.
15934_Sullivan_c11_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:10 AM   Page 269
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:12 AM    Page 270

                 Figure 12.1 A good portfolio should attract job offers, not flies.
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 271

                                            12
                          A Good Book or
                            a Crowbar
             Some thoughts on getting into the business

            GONE ARE THE DAYS WHEN JUNIORS were hired off the street
            because of a few promising scribbles on notebook paper and the
            fire in their eyes. The ad schools are pouring kids out onto the
            street, many of them with highly polished portfolios.

            Do you need to go to an ad school?
            If you can afford it, if you can put in a couple of years, by all means,
            go for it. When I got into the business, there were only a few such
            schools in the country. Now they’re popping up all over. There’s a
            list of eight first-rate schools I include here, but the list may change
            by the time this book reaches your hands and will likely keep
            changing.
               As of this writing (key phrase—as of this writing), the top-rated
            professional schools on my list are the Art Center College of
            Design in Pasadena, the Academy of Art University in San
            Francisco, Brainco in Minneapolis, The Creative Circus and the
            Portfolio Center in Atlanta, Miami Ad School, New York City’s
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 272

            272                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            School of Visual Arts, and Virginia Commonwealth University’s Ad
            Center in Richmond.
               In the United Kingdom, I hear good stuff about West Herts
            College, Buckinghamshire Chilterns University College, and
            Central St. Martin’s College of Art and Design.
               Up in Canada, my friends Nancy Vonk and Janet Kestin say
            they’ve seen good students come out of Ontario College of Art and
            Design as well as Humber College. And here in my neck of the
            woods is one of the few universities in America producing students
            with good books, the University of Texas-Austin.
               If you simply haven’t got the money and can’t attend a school,
            don’t give up. You will have a much steeper hill to climb, undoubt-
            edly, because you’ll be competing with students who’ve set aside a
            year or two of their lives to fully concentrate on putting together a
            terrific portfolio. In the end, however, it all comes down to the work
            you can put together—your book.
               To get a job in the creative side of this business, you will need a
            portfolio, or a book, as its called—some 25 to 30 pages of specula-
            tive (“spec”) ads you’ve put together to show how you think. If you
            can put together eight or nine great campaigns, the top graduate of
            the best school has nothing on you. On the other hand, if you’re still
            pounding the pavement after a year with your homemade book,
            maybe it’ll be time to think about enrolling in one of the creative
            schools. (This is particularly true if you want to be an art director.
            Unlike copywriting, even junior art directors must have certain
            graphic, production, and computer skills to get in the door.)
               Once you decide to go for a book, give it everything. Your portfo-
            lio will be the single most important piece you work on in your
            career. It is your foot in the door, your resume, your agent,
            spokesperson, and a giant fork in the road to your eventual career.
            And like a good chess opening, the better it is, the more advantages
            you will discover through the rest of the game.
               Don’t worry right now what kind of portfolio to buy or what it
            should look like. You’ll figure that out later. For now, here’s some
            advice on what to put in it.

                              PUTTING TOGETHER A BOOK.
            If you’re a writer, team up with a promising art director.
            And if you’re an art director, find a writer you get along with. You
            need each other’s skills, and together you will add up to more than
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:12 AM   Page 273

                                  A Good Book or a Crowbar                      273

            the sum of your parts. More than anything, look for someone with
            energy, with drive. Someone who’s hungry. It’s a long, uphill battle
            putting a great book together, so you’ll need all the firepower you
            can muster.
              An art director can help the ads look great, and given the rise of
            the advertising schools out there, the way your work looks is getting
            more important—even if you aspire to be a copywriter. Books that
            are full of really good ideas but are poorly art-directed will simply
            not get the same attention from agencies. (And when you think
            about it, it’s not any different from high school. The good-looking
            kids got all the attention. Oh . . . excuse me. I digress.) Bottom line:
            The competition is fierce. Look your best.

            If you’re a writer working alone, you can still pull it off.
            To see what you’re up against without an art director (and to learn
            what you should at least shoot for), ask an agency recruiter or a
            helpful person at one of the professional ad schools to show you
            samples of the better student portfolios.
               What you’ll see will probably be daunting, but you have to
            remember that many creative directors will also be looking for the
            quality of your ideas. So, with headlines set on somebody’s com-
            puter, some imaginative use of scrap art or existing photos, and a
            few hours at a copying shop, it is possible put together a respectable
            spec ad.
               Here’s the big piece of advice, and I don’t care if you’re alone or
            at a top ad school. If you remember nothing else, remember this:
            Spend the time making the concept great, not the execution.
               Here’s an example of a concept that’s so good, even a bad draw-
            ing doesn’t get in the way. I am right-handed. With my left hand, I
            have rendered a famous Nike ad from a British agency (Figure 12.2).
            The concept still looks great. Even if your portfolio is a tattered shoe
            box full of concepts like this, I don’t care if they’re written in crayon
            on wet napkins, you will get a job. I guarantee it.

            Come up with great ideas, not just great ads.
            My friend Mike Lear (a copywriter and teacher at one of the ad
            schools) gives students this advice: “A book full of cool ads doesn’t
            guarantee you a great job. A book full of brilliant thinking does.”
              The point is, when you sit down to work don’t just “do an ad.”
              Do something big and marvelous and wonderful. Position a shoe
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM    Page 274

            274                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               Figure 12.2 To make my point, I have redrawn this famous Nike ad
                 with my left hand, although I’m right-handed. A highly polished
                   layout of a so-so concept won’t hold a candle to a great idea,
                                    even one produced like this.

            company as environmentalists (as they did for Timberland).
            Reinvent the whole idea of driving (as they did for BMW’s MINI).
            Improve the product (like they did by bringing iPod and running
            together in Nike⫹). Brilliant thinking has less to do with what’s in
            the ad than what’s behind it—the thinking you do strategically, the
            brass-tacks business ideas you come up with that can move a brand
            forward.
               It was brilliant business thinking that moved Vegas’s tourism
            away from a me-too Disney strategy to the naughty idea that
            reversed their declining visitor counts—“What happens in Vegas,
            stays in Vegas.” R&R Partners’ simple and refreshingly honest idea
            was the engine for years of incredible advertising, one sample of
            which is this fabulous ad (Figure 12.3). A lint roller covered with
            naughty detritus like spangles, sequins, and false eyelashes brings to
            life the strong business idea underneath all of the Vegas work. The
            brilliant thinking came first. The brilliant ads, later.
               Famous copywriter Ed McCabe once described the size of the
            ideas we’re talking about here: “I’m not interested in day-after
            recall of ads. I’m interested in 10-year recall.”
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:12 AM    Page 275

                                   A Good Book or a Crowbar                            275

                Figure 12.3 The best advertising is true to the core of the product.
                 Few campaigns did this better than the advertising for Las Vegas.
                            “What happens in Vegas, stays in Vegas.”
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 276

            276                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            For your first portfolio, concentrate on print.
            If you’re new to the business don’t try to tackle television or radio.
            Print’s hard enough, and most creative directors I’ve talked with
            agree that thinking conceptually in print is probably the best place
            to start. Concentrate on print, which for the purposes of this discus-
            sion can include outdoor advertising, posters, point-of-purchase,
            collateral, and interactive. If you have a monstrous idea for televi-
            sion, go for it; do a simple storyboard. Just remember that TV
            boards (and radio scripts) in a portfolio present themselves slowly. I
            tend to think it’s better to have a book that presents great print
            ideas fast, one page after another—whap, whap, whap.
               But print isn’t the only thing that presents fast. What other adver-
            tising venues can you explore? Start with print and once you feel
            your confidence grow, branch out. Do something amazing.
               Remember, in tough economic times clients are looking for ways
            to reach customers beyond the usual (and expensive) methods of
            print and TV. Let your book show that you know this.

            If there’s ever a time to study the awards annuals, this is it.
            Study them. Read, learn, memorize. Don’t just concentrate on the
            most recent issues, either. Dig up old annuals. Go online. Go to the
            ad blogs. Design fads come and go, but the classic advertising struc-
            tures endure. See what makes the ads work. Take them apart. Put
            them back together. Some of the ads are humorous and work. Some
            are straight and work. Why? What’s the difference?

            One way to start is simply to redo some existing ads.
            Page through Time magazine and look for a bad ad. You probably
            won’t have to go past page three. Find the idea buried in the body
            copy, where it almost always is. Pull it back out and turn it into
            an ad.

            Round out your portfolio with a variety of goods
            and services.
            If you’re just starting out and doing spec ads, don’t try to add to the
            latest, award-winning Nike campaign. It’s tempting to do so, but you
            set yourself up for a harsh comparison to work that’s extremely
            good.
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 277

                                  A Good Book or a Crowbar                    277

               Just pick some products you like. Start a file on them. Fill it with
            great ads from the awards annuals and bad ads from the magazines.
            Start jotting down every little thing that feels like an idea. Don’t
            edit. Just start. You like music? Start building a campaign on, say,
            how this new portable disc player doesn’t skip every time you step
            off the curb. Now find two other products you like. Find what
            makes them different and do two campaigns there.
               Then choose some boring products—products without any differ-
            ences that distinguish them (besides the ads you’re about to do).
            Insurance. Banking. You figure it out. But find a way to make them
            interesting.
               You might try writing ads for a product you’ve never used and
            likely never will. If you’re a guy, write subscription ads for Brides
            magazine. The fresh mind you bring to the category may help your
            concepts ring new.
               And, finally, take a shot at a campaign for a packaged good. Like
            lipstick, soup, or bouillon cubes. But don’t touch Hot Wheels toy
            cars or Tabasco sauce. Everybody in the space-time continuum is
            doing ads on these. Also, I implore you, please, no pee-pee jokes,
            potty humor, and for the love of God, no porn shops, not even con-
            doms. All of these things have been done to death. You won’t just
            be beating a dead horse. You’ll be beating the dust from the crum-
            bling rocks of the fossilized bones of an extinct species of horse
            crushed between two glaciers in the Precambrian Age.
               To get you started on the kind of products that might make for a
            good student book, I provide the following list. It’s by no means a
            definitive list, just stuff I’ve seen in some of the better student
            books.

                     Nicorette                     A bookstore
                     The local newspaper           Tiffany & Co.
                     Lasik Eye Centers             Sealy mattresses
                     Prudential Insurance          Scope
                     Blackberry                    24 Hour Fitness
                     A wine                        Secret deodorant
                     Tupperware                    Silent Air purifier
                     Trash bags                    Western Union
                     Domino Sugar                  La-Z-Boy recliners
                     Fidelity Investments          Sirius radio
                     DirecTV                       Sherwin Williams
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08   10:12 AM    Page 278

            278                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                      AARP                           Snapple
                      Brawny towels                  Laundry detergent
                      Polaris                        Nasdaq

              When you’re done, your book should show the ability to think
            creatively and strategically on goods and services, both hard and
            soft.
              One last thing. Avoid public service campaigns. They’re too
            easy. (“Hey, look at these fish I caught. Sorry the holes in their
            heads are so big, but they were at the bottom of a barrel when I
            shot them.”)

            Now is not the time to play it safe.
            As you put your book together, err on the side of recklessness. It’s
            the one time in your career you get to pick the client and write the
            strategy. If you’re not pushing it to the edge now, when are you
            going to start? A junior book should be the most fun thing a
            recruiter gets to look at all day, just for the reasons above. It’s not
            real, so live a little. It’s better to have stuff that’s fresh and strategi-
            cally naive than a nice, sensible portfolio of ads so dull you have to
            laminate them just to cut down on the smell.

            Nor is this the time to be clueless and naive.
            Don’t fill your book with outrageous ads that have no chance of
            ever running.
               Swearwords in the headlines, pee-pee jokes, stuff like that is all
            fine and dandy when you’re working with your partner, telling
            jokes, and messing around. But when you actually include stuff like
            this in your book, what it says about you isn’t flattering. (“Hello, I’m
            a clueless young creative. My work is ‘edgy’ and ‘provocative’ and I
            think putting a sanitary-pad belt on the real Statue of Liberty would
            be a cool outdoor idea for Tampax.”)
               Do stuff that actually has a chance of running.

            Fill your portfolio with campaigns, not one-shots.
            Almost anybody can write a decent headline if they work at it long
            enough. Only skilled ad people can think in campaigns. Don’t send
            your book out until it has five or six great campaigns in it. And
            remember, the best campaigns aren’t three one-shots strung
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:12 AM   Page 279

                                  A Good Book or a Crowbar                      279

            together by a common typeface, but one big idea executed in a vari-
            ety of ways. The Absolut Vodka or Rolling Stone print campaigns
            shown in Chapter 2 are good examples.
              If you have a couple of great one-shots, go ahead, throw ’em in.
            But they should be icing. Not the cake.

            Don’t fill your portfolio with cute campaigns
            for microscopic clients.
            A book full of ads for the local bakery, your brother’s auto shop,
            and the dry cleaner will not be very impressive. You need to do ads
            for checking accounts, newspaper subscriptions, a brand of clothing,
            a cologne. Real stuff.
               These are the tough day-to-day projects you’ll actually be work-
            ing on most of the time in this business. Ads on products like these
            are a better measure of your abilities than dashing off a zippy head-
            line for portable toilets or an acupuncture parlor.
               Jamie, my agency recruiter friend, told me: “My favorite books
            are ones that come from shops with crappy clients. If a person can
            make something good from some of the godawful products I see . . .
            that, my friend, is someone with brains and drive.”
               My friend Bob Barrie concurs: “Do great ads for boring products.”

            In addition to having a variety of clients, make sure you
            show a variety of styles in your book.
            Not all headline ads, not all visuals, but a good mix of everything
            you’re capable of. This advice applies particularly to aspiring art
            directors. Show ads that demonstrate your ability to handle type.
            And ads that are all visual, ads that are all headline, ads with a lot of
            stuff in them that require a good sense of design. Flex a lot of mus-
            cles. The same advice applies to writers. Show a range of voice. I’ve
            seen books written entirely in one wiseass voice, and the only brand
            that comes through is the writer’s.
               Let me repeat: Flex a lot of muscles.
               In the last couple of years, 90 percent of the student portfolios
            that I’ve seen are made up almost entirely of visual solutions. A
            visual solution is fine; I’ve been harping about them in this book,
            yes. But they’re not the only solution out there. I see so many of
            these ads now that it’s getting to feel a little formulaic. (This trend,
            I’m guessing, is driven by the predominance of visual solutions cur-
            rently filling the awards annuals.)
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:12 AM    Page 280

            280                  “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Figure 12.4 There is attention to detail, graceful design, and craftsmanship
                evident in this marvelous ad for North Carolina. As an art director,
                          you should have work like this in your portfolio.

               A book full of visual solutions will not show your prospective
            employer how good a designer you are. How could it? The typical
            visual-solution ad is a photograph with a teeny copy line down next
            to the logo.
               So, show off. Do a long-copy ad. Do one that’s all type. Dazzle us
            with your art direction. Show us you know how to handle headlines
            and body copy. Show us you know how to bend those 26 letters to
            your will and make them hop through any hoop you hold, no matter
            how high. Show us you know how to assemble a page that is blazing
            with the craft of design.
               This ad for North Carolina’s tourism commission from Loeffler
            Ketchum Mountjoy (Figure 12.4) is an example of excellent craft.
            (The reprint here doesn’t do it justice. You can see a better version
            in Communication Arts #38, page 46.)
               Remember, as an art director your job isn’t over when you come
            up with the concept; it begins all over again. And it’s at this phase
            that you have a chance to move a great concept into the orbit of
            perfection with a booster push of amazing design and execution.
            You probably won’t get into this orbit with a book full of picture
            ads with teeny lines down by the logo.
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 281

                                  A Good Book or a Crowbar                    281

            Take your best campaign idea, and blow the sucker out
            into a big integrated one.
            This is where the big brands play. It’s the stage on which big ideas
            can best show their stuff. It’s what clients are asking for. And it’s
            what creative directors are looking for in student books. It’s all that
            stuff we talked about in Chapter 8, the Big Honkin’ Ideas.
               So, as you approach completion of your first workable portfolio,
            pick that one campaign idea with the most flexible, media-infinite
            idea and put it through its paces.
               Keep in mind that I’m not suggesting you devote 10 pages of
            your portfolio to the same idea sized to fit newspaper, then out-
            door, then brochures, and so on. Show us how muscular and flexible
            your core idea is with different executions across a variety of media.
            Could your print campaign extend to the side of a coffee cup?
            Could it be a guerrilla marketing and web site combination? Could
            you write something on a Post-it Note that, applied to a lamppost,
            becomes a cool concept? How would it work as a handout at a
            trade show? As a place mat?
               Remember, this isn’t a nice-to-have. It’s a must-have.

            If you’re looking to land a copywriter’s position, show some
            writing, for Pete’s sake.
            Visual solutions are all the rage. Fine, do some. But as a junior copy-
            writer in an agency, your first 500 assignments are all likely to be
            writing headlines for an airline’s 500 destinations or a telco’s 500
            calling plans. Show me you can write. Show me some muscular,
            intelligent headlines. (For a reminder of what muscular, intelligent
            headlines look like, revisit the Economist on pages 93–94.)

            If you’re looking to land a copywriter’s position, have a few
            samples of body copy in your book.
            One of the big recruiters in New York City, Tiffany Warin, reminded
            me that having at least one great, well-written, long-copy ad is a
            good idea.
               Ms. Warin said, “When I was the recruiter for Deutsch, we’d hire
            these young kids and they’d sometimes get the hardest projects
            right off the bat. Like radio. Well, radio is one of the toughest
            assignments you can get. So these young kids would be handed five
            or six radio assignments on their second day and just choke. So I
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 282

            282                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            always look for a long-copy ad to see if they can sustain a thought in
            a witty, intelligent manner.”
               Remember that Land Rover ad in Chapter 3 (Figure 3.7)? That’s
            a great example of a long-copy ad. Will your prospective employers
            read every word? Probably not. But have it in there.

            Think about the order in which you want your work to
            appear in the book.
            My advice: Start strong; end strong. Put your very best piece first.
            Right on page one. Put your next-strongest campaign at the end.
            And in between, vary the styles and the emotions. Funny-serious-
            sexy-funny-serious, just keep the flow moving along.

            Just before you put the final book together, get out a big
            knife and cut everything that isn’t great.
            Novelist Elmore Leonard had this great line that went, “I try to
            leave out the parts people skip.” That’s good advice about writing as
            well as for assembling your final book. But it’s hard advice to fol-
            low. All of those creations are your babies, I know. But some babies
            are ugly. Thin the herd. If you have doubts about something, cut it.
            It’s weird, but people often judge you based on the weakest work in
            your book, not the strongest. Cut the weakest stuff. Even if that
            means cutting a campaign of five down to two, cut.
               There’s another reason to pare the book a bit. If a pared-down
            book you’ve sent an agency lands you an interview, you’ll have
            something new to show once you’re face-to-face. Perhaps the best
            candidates to leave out are any one-shots you have or perhaps a
            campaign from the middle of the book.

            If you’re going to make minibooks, make sure that reading
            them doesn’t require tweezers.
            A minibook is a portable portfolio. Typically, the ads are sized down
            to an 81⁄2- by 11-inch format to make it cheap and something you
            can pop in the mail. Minibooks are a good idea.
              And when you make one, make a whole bunch—hundreds, if you
            can. Direct-mail companies profit on a response rate of just 1 and 2
            percent. So make a whole bunch of minibooks and send them out to
            every agency you’re interested in.
              But don’t make the work too small. I receive lots of these mini-
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM    Page 283

                                  A Good Book or a Crowbar                       283

            books, and more than half of them I cannot read. I cannot read the
            body copy. And worse, I cannot read the headlines.
              Don’t reduce your book to bits of highly art-directed particles of
            sand.

            Put your book on the Internet.
            It’s easy to do, easy to update, and amazingly cheap. It doesn’t elim-
            inate the role of a minibook or your main portfolio, but it’s there in
            a pinch if you need it and it shows a fair bit of e-savvy. Personally, I
            happen to prefer looking at print as print and generally ask juniors
            to simply send me their minibooks. But I know of many creative
            directors who actually prefer to see work online.
               Another possibility is posting your work on one of the online
            portfolio showcases. There are some free services; some cost money.
            How well they work, I don’t know, but at the minute I don’t see a
            downside to it.
               Put an online presence in your arsenal. When you’re out there
            networking with e-mails, include your site as a link. It also helps if
            you can put a “comments” link below your work. You’ll get some
            good feedback.
               The same rules apply to your web site as to your main book.
            Don’t get hung up in the presentation. The work is everything.
            Showcase the work.

            Don’t gussy up your portfolio.
            Don’t spend money on the portfolio case itself or put felt on back of
            the ads. For one thing, felt backing makes an ad look too important.
            Come on, it’s not the Magna Carta. It’s a coupon ad for Jell-O. Felt
            also takes up too much room, and I can make my portfolio beat
            your portfolio with more great work in the same amount of space. I
            refer you again to my left-handed drawing of the famous Nike ad.
            Forget the packaging. The work is everything.
               Here’s more advice from my friend Jamie, the recruiter at a huge
            agency:
              Keep in mind that the person on the other end of your portfolio mail-
              ing has an average-sized desk with about 100 other portfolios on top
              of it at any given moment. So if you decide to send your giant metal
              box with heavy laminated ads, that recruiter’s probably gonna say
              some words that would make your momma blush and then they’ll
              move onto the next portfolio because yours is a pain to deal with.
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 284

            284                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Don’t do “clever” mailers.
            It’s tempting to demonstrate your creativity this way. But don’t. I’ve
            seen the weirdest things sent to the agency. A foot from a depart-
            ment store dummy in a box topped with the expected line: “I’d love
            to get my foot in the door of your agency.” I saw about 20 of those.
            One guy tiptoed into the mail room and sat inside a Federal
            Express box. And in the creepy category, we note an Igloo cooler
            that arrived with a label stating “creative brain inside.” And then
            there was that envelope stuffed with “bloody” bandages with some
            message about how “I’d kill to work at your agency.”
               Don’t do a mailer. I’ve never seen anything as clever as a good
            portfolio.

            Don’t do a cute resume.
            Your portfolio is where you should showcase your creativity. Your
            resume should say who you are. Keep it to one page and get right to
            the point. This is my name. I’m a writer or I’m an art director. This is
            the job I want. Here’s my experience, my address, and my phone
            number. Thank you and good night.

            Dropping your minibook or portfolio off at the agency
            isn’t enough.
            This is a people business.
              While there may be a small sense of accomplishment in securing
            a name and sending your book off to one of your target agencies,
            don’t check that agency off your list, lean back at the pool, and wait
            for the phone call. You need to get in there. You need to follow up
            with phone calls, letters, e-mails. You need an interview. It’s rare
            that a dropped-off book results in a phone call.
              This is a people business. While the ante to the game is a great
            book, the winning hand is a great interview where you impress the
            person who actually has the job opening.

            If you’re just beginning, don’t count on a headhunter
            to find you a job.
            Typically, headhunters work with midlevel to senior positions that
            have higher salary potential. (They make their money on a percent-
            age of the salary.) Most agencies aren’t interested in paying
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 285

                                  A Good Book or a Crowbar                    285

            recruiters’ fees to fill entry-level jobs when they’re getting all the
            applicants they can handle walking in off the street.
               Just the same, you may decide you want to use a creative recruiter
            to supplement your search. Fine. They’re great people to get to know
            in this business, and, who knows, if they can’t place you now, they
            could be of great help down the road. Keep in touch with them. It’s
            called networking.

            “Networking.”
            I swore I’d never use the word as a verb, but nothing else seems to
            fit here. If you don’t have relatives working in the business, net-
            working’s precisely the thing you’ll have to do. You’ll have to send
            out feelers far and wide.
               Tell every living person you know you’re trying to land a job at
            an ad agency. You may find that the friend of a friend has a name.
            And a name is all you need to start building your contacts.
               So you ask around and get a name. Maybe he or she doesn’t even
            work in the creative department. It doesn’t matter—you call. Even
            if they’re not hiring, you ask for an “information interview” or
            advice on your book.
               When you meet this person, be your usual charming self. Don’t
            be too flip or go through the mail on his desk. Just listen. Then
            politely ask if he knows of job openings anywhere. Get the name of
            another contact. Ask if you can use his name to get in the door
            somewhere else. Keep this up, and over time you’ll slowly build up a
            list of names, numbers, and contacts. One day the phone will ring.
               I was lucky. In my case, it went like this: My college roommate’s
            wife’s brother was the president of a local agency. So I called my old
            buddy. He talked to his wife. She talked to her brother. And he said
            to have me call some guy in the creative department—some guy
            named Tom McElligott.

            Establish a phone or mail relationship with a working writer
            or art director.
            There are plenty of friendly and helpful people in the business who
            will be willing to coach you along. The trick is finding one.
              Take a risk. Write a letter to somebody whose work you admire.
            Or call ’em. (Call before 9 A.M. or after 6 P.M. It’s less crazy then.)
            Tell them you really like the stuff they do. No brownnosing. Just
            fact-of-the-matter. Tell ’em you’re trying to get into the business
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 286

            286                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            and ask if they could take a look at your work and give you advice
            on how to improve it.
               Once you get a dialogue going, there are two important things to
            do. One, take the advice you get. And two, don’t stalk the person.
            Keep a respectful distance. Don’t call more than once or twice. If
            somebody doesn’t return your call after three tries, take the hint—
            stop calling, at least for six months or so. And get back to them only
            when you’ve significantly improved your book.

            Get a cell phone.
            And when you go on the road for interviews, bring something to
            read.

                                       THE INTERVIEW.
            Before each interview, study the agency.
            It’s probably smart to begin your search by looking closely at the
            agencies that are doing work compatible with your style.
               Read the latest awards books and familiarize yourself with their
            best work. Memorize the names of their top clients. Learn the
            names of the people who created their best work and check to
            make sure they still work there.
               You’ll find client lists, billings, and other stuff in a big fat book
            called The Standard Directory of Advertising Agencies, known in the
            business as the Red Book. There’s a similar sourcebook, Adweek’s
            Agency Directory, available through the magazine. If neither book is
            available at your local library, borrow one from a friendly agency,
            photocopy the places you want to hit, and study them.
               Of course, none of this is for the purposes of brownnosing. (“Gee,
            Mr. Crawford, I thought your work for Spray ’N’ Wipe was so mean-
            ingful.”) What it says is that you’re a student of the business and
            you’re serious enough about getting into it that you’ve done your
            homework.

            Avoid the rush at the front door. Try the side door,
            or even a window.
            Many agencies now employ creative recruiters. These people are
            generally not writers or art directors, just folks with a decent sense
            of what makes for a good portfolio. As good as some of them are,
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 287

                                  A Good Book or a Crowbar                     287

            try to get your book into the agency somewhere over their head. If
            you can do so, you stand a better chance because you’re removing a
            layer of approval. Yes, it’s good to get to know the names of the
            recruiters in your target agencies. Keep their names in your address
            book, but don’t limit your calls only to them.

            If you can’t get in to see the general, talk to a lieutenant.
            You don’t have to get an interview with the creative director to get
            your foot in the door at an agency. If you have a great book, see if
            you can get 15 minutes of time with a senior creative person. They
            know when the agency is hiring, even if they’re not the ones doing
            it. If they like you, it’s relatively easy for them to slide your port-
            folio under the CD’s nose at the right moment.
                If you come on board and do great work, it reflects well on them.
            I’ve helped several juniors get on board and have watched with some
            measure of undeserved pride when a kid “I discovered” does well.
                It may happen for you this way. If it does, someday maybe you can
            return the favor to a kid who comes into your office with a bad tie
            and a great book. Take the time to help. We’re all in this together.

            In the interview, don’t just sit there.
            I don’t care how good your book is, you can’t just throw it on a CD’s
            desk, park yourself on his sofa, and wait to discuss company health
            plans and vacation time. You must make it clear you have a pulse.
            Advertising is a business that requires a lot of people skills, and it
            will help if the CD sees you have them—that you’re personable,
            that you can handle a business meeting with verve and confidence,
            and that generally you aren’t a stick-in-the-mud.
               One famous creative director I know is more interested in your
            hobbies than anything else. “They tell me a lot about you.” And
            Andy Berlin once confided to a recruiter that hiring sometimes
            comes down to chemistry. “A lot of people could probably do this
            job,” he said, “but what it’s really about is . . . who would we want to
            have a beer with?”

            Have an opinion.
            This is another version of “Trust your instincts.”
              If the interviewer asks you what kind of advertising you like or
            what campaigns you wish you had done (and many do), don’t be
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 288

            288                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            afraid to have an opinion. Say what current or classic campaigns
            you like and describe why. It’s a subjective business, and unless you
            pick Mr. Whipple as your dream campaign, you’ll probably do fine.
              What’s bad is having no opinion at all. “Oh, I like . . . well, I like
            whatever’s good is what I like.”

            Don’t explain your book.
            When you are finally in the creative director’s office and watching
            her page through your book, resist the temptation to explain any-
            thing (unless, of course, you’ve actually been asked a question). I
            know it’s tempting to explain. You’ll want to set up what a certain
            assignment was or how you had this “way better” idea that was killed.
               Don’t.
               The fact of the matter is this: You won’t get a chance to explain
            your ad to a person reading it in Time magazine at the airport.
            (“Excuse me, I see you’re reading that ad for the new Toyota Camry.
            If you’ll allow me to explain, basically those blur lines right there,
            they really don’t need to be behind the car but we felt it was the only
            way to indicate the vehicle was in motion . . . which makes the whole
            concept work quickly, which it does, right?”)
               If you ever feel the slightest urge to explain something in your
            book, cut it. That urge means the piece is not working. As someone
            once said, “If your work speaks for itself, don’t interrupt.”

            If you are asked about some work, be ready with an
            articulate explanation of how you came up with it.
            “So, I like this campaign,” says the creative director. “How’d you
            come up with it?”
               “We just thought it up, man. Just sorta . . . poof! And I went like,
            whoa, dude, this rocks.”
               You are being considered for employment at a firm that sells the
            intangible. Agencies sell ideas. So your ability to precisely articulate
            how you created an idea and to persuasively pitch it to a neutral
            (and sometimes hostile) audience is key.
               Have your answers ready.

            Trust your instincts.
            Go to 10 different interviews and you’re going to get 10 different
            opinions on your work. It will be confusing. (“The guy with the goatee
            liked this campaign, but the guy with the ponytail said it sucked.”)
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 289

                                  A Good Book or a Crowbar                     289

              If the majority say the same thing, take the hint. But you don’t
            have to agree with everybody. If you do, you’ll water down your
            book. Trust your instincts. Keep what you believe in. Change what
            you don’t. Keep reworking your book until the weak parts are out
            and the good parts are great.
              One way to get a good read on what needs improving is to ask
            each person you meet in an interview what he thinks is the weak-
            est campaign in your book. If more than a couple point to the
            same campaign, take it around the back of the barn. You know
            what to do.

            Relax. Ask some questions.
            Keep in mind as you interview that you can learn as much about
            them during this meeting as they can about you. Remember that
            even though you’re young and on the street, you have options.
            You don’t have to take this job, even if it’s offered. You have
            choices.
               With that in mind, relax a little bit. Your interviewer is not there
            to pin you to the felt like a butterfly. If they invited you to come in,
            they already like your book. They’re trying to see if they like you.
            So be yourself. Have an opinion.

            Offer to do the grunt work.
            My very first assignment in the business was to write some 50 “live”
            radio scripts for a hotel corporation. Live radio is simply a script
            read by the local DJ in between the farming updates and wrestling
            reports. I suspect if that awful live radio job hadn’t come through
            the agency door, I might not have, either. But I was more than
            happy to do it.
               I recommend you take the same attitude. Express your willing-
            ness to take on any assignment they throw at you. Many young peo-
            ple come in wanting to work on an agency’s national TV accounts.
            My advice is, offer your shoulder to any wheel, your nose to any
            grindstone they have. I overheard a junior creative wisely coach a
            student by saying, “Trust me, you don’t want to be on a TV shoot.
            You can’t imagine how clueless you are right now.”
               While it’s possible you could land some TV relatively early on in
            your career, it’s more likely you’ll have to first pay your dues. Get
            ready to do some live radio, or what we cynics call “the brochures of
            the airwaves.”
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 290

            290                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            Sell your ability to think strategically.
            Many students concentrate too much on presenting their creative
            ability when it’s already evident in their portfolio. That’s under-
            standable, given all the effort you’ve put into the ads. But trust the
            creativity to speak for itself. Instead, it might pay to talk about the
            strategic thinking behind the ads you’re presenting. Creative direc-
            tors probably don’t hear much of this kind of talk during interviews,
            and your strategic abilities and overall business acumen are just as
            important in estimating your worth.

            Let them know if you are willing to freelance.
            Agencies often have more work than their staffs can handle, and
            even if they don’t need another full-timer, they may need tempo-
            rary help. Ask if this is the case at your target agencies. Let them
            know you’re willing to freelance. It gives the CD a chance to work
            with you, to see if you should keep “dating” before you get married.

            If you can’t get into the creative department, get into
            the agency.
            I can name quite a few good creative people who started their
            agency careers in the mail room, or as coordinators, assistants, even
            account executives. Ed McCabe, for example—mail-room boy.
            Jamie Barrett—junior account guy.
               The thing is, once you’re in, you can learn more. You’ll be able to
            watch it happen firsthand. You’ll also start making friends with
            people who can hire you or help move you into the creative
            department. Unlike companies such as IBM, ad agencies are
            loosely structured places that often fill job openings with any
            knucklehead who proves he can do the work. They don’t care what
            he majored in.
               So get in there, do the job, keep your ears open, your book fresh,
            and when a creative position opens up, whom do you think they’ll
            hire? A stranger off the street or the smart young kid in the mail
            room who has paid his dues and is still chomping at the bit?

            How to talk about money.
            I had a long discussion about money matters with Dany Lennon,
            one of the best creative recruiters in the ad business. (The ad that
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp        1/2/08     10:12 AM      Page 291

                                       A Good Book or a Crowbar                                 291

            opens this chapter, for “The Creative Register,” that’s her.) She
            gave me this advice, and I pass it on to you.
               “Do your homework,” Dany told me. “Before you go into an
            interview you should know what the starting salary levels for that
            city, and that area, are. Talk to headhunters, talk to the agency
            recruiters, make phone calls, but find out. Then, when you and the
            creative director begin to talk about money, you won’t be left in the
            position of saying, ‘Okay, so what do you think I’m worth?’ An
            agency might be tempted to low-ball you.*
               “Instead you say, ‘Well, this is what I understand to be the start-
            ing salary at comparable agencies in this area.’ Drop the name of an
            agency if you like. But take the responsibility of knowing about
            money. Don’t leave it up to the agency. If you do it forthrightly, your
            CD is going to see an intelligent person who’s done their homework
            and money won’t be a federal case. Just one of fairness. It’s not so
            much the money you get that matters anyway, but the way in which
            you conduct yourself during the negotiation. A mature, intelligent,
            and fair negotiation says a lot about your character, also very
            important in an interview.
               “Once you’ve negotiated your salary,” Dany went on, “you may
            want to tell your CD you would appreciate a review in six months.
            Not a raise, but a review. This says to him, ‘I’m going to work my tail
            off for this place and I’m confident in six months you’ll see you’ve
            made a great hire.’ And six months is all it usually takes for a CD to
            get a good read on you: on how hard you work, your attitude, your
            overall value to his company.”
               More than anything, Dany warned me, don’t cop an attitude and
            start pitting one agency’s offer against another. According to Ms.
            Lennon, there is, unfortunately, a burgeoning “brat pack” move-
            ment within the industry. Standard starting salaries, which were
            once etched in stone, are a thing of the past, and negotiations are
            more common. Not a bad thing in itself, but it has created a situa-
            tion where talented newcomers are swaggering into agencies with
            good portfolios and bad attitudes.
               I heard this story from the president of one of the country’s top
            ad schools. He happens to be visiting a New York agency, chatting in
            the office of the creative director. Phone rings, and it’s a young
            graduate of another ad school. (The agency had previously agreed

            *The Internet may also be a good source for assessing average salaries. Currently the
            sites talentzoo.com and salary.com seem to be fairly accurate. Whether they’re still oper-
            ating by the time this book reaches your hands is another matter.
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 292

            292                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            to fly this kid up to New York for a better look at him and his
            book—translation: a real interview and a likely job offer.)
               But on the phone, the kid cops a ’tude and tells the agency CD he
            isn’t coming unless he makes such-and-such kind of money (a salary
            way outside of what juniors usually make). Before slam-welding the
            phone receiver to its cradle, the creative director shrieks into it a
            string of invectives so toxic that common decency prevents their
            retelling here.
               A man named Frederick Collins once said, “There are two types
            of people in the world. Those who come into a room and say, ‘Well,
            here I am!’ and those who come in and say, ‘Ah, there you are.’”
               Be that second type of person.

            Don’t choose an agency based on the salary they offer.
            If you’re lucky enough to get a couple of offers, you may find that
            the better salary is offered by the worse agency. It has always been
            thus. And Lord knows, it will be tempting to take that extra 10
            grand when it’s held out to you. Don’t.
               One of Bill Bernbach’s best lines was “It isn’t a principal until it
            costs you money.” In this case, the principal in question is the value
            you place on doing great work. I urge you to go with the agency
            that’s producing good advertising. You may work for less, but it’s
            more likely you’ll produce better ads. And in the long run, nothing
            is better for a great salary than a great book.
               More than once I’ve seen a talented kid go for the bigger check
            at a bad agency and a year later take a cut in pay just to get the hell
            out of there. The bad part was that even after a year in the belly of
            the beast, he hadn’t added so much as a brochure to his original stu-
            dent portfolio.
               If you get a fair offer from a good agency, take it. Take in four
            roommates if you have to, live in your parents’ basement, but get on
            board—that’s the trick. I read somewhere not to set your sights on
            money anyway. Just do what you do well and the money will come.
            McElligott once told me, “You’ll be underpaid the first half of your
            career and overpaid the second.”

            Take a job wherever you can and work hard.
            All you need to do to get on a roll is produce a couple of great cam-
            paigns and have them run. And it’s possible to do great work at
            almost any agency in America. (Note judicious use of the word pos-
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:12 AM   Page 293

                                  A Good Book or a Crowbar                      293

            sible.) Once you do a great campaign, once it gets in the books, cre-
            ative directors everywhere will see your name. And you can make
            the next move up.
               Don’t be crestfallen if you can’t get into one of the “hot” shops.
            The agency offering you the job will be your stepping-stone.
            (However, it’s probably not a good idea to tell them this as you’re
            shaking hands: “Thank you, sir. I guess this will just have to do until
            something opens up at Wieden ⫹ Kennedy. In fact, I think I’ll just
            leave my coat on if you don’t mind.”)
               Here’s the other thing: You don’t wanna have your first job be at
            an elite shop. First of all, you’d probably be so intimidated your butt
            cheeks will fuse together. Second, you won’t appreciate how good
            you have it at an elite shop if it’s your first job in the industry. Mike
            Hughes of The Martin Agency notes: “People who start in [great
            places like] Goodby and leave are forever disappointed in their
            other agencies. And when they were at Goodby, they didn’t think it
            was that good.”1
               Remember, wherever you land a job, there’ll be plenty to learn
            from the people you’ll meet. Think of that first job as continuing
            your education.
               Just get on board and work like hell. Early in your career’s the
            time to do it, too, when you don’t have children calling you on
            the phone asking how to get the top off the gasoline can in the
            garage.
               It may seem that you can’t outthink those senior creatives right
            now, but you can definitely outwork them. Make hard work your
            secret weapon.

            “Interns? Clean-up in Aisle 3, please.”
            The answer on whether to intern or not depends on the agency.
            Look for a paid internship, and expect to work hard. It’s not likely
            you’ll be creating Super Bowl spots; doing image searches for an art
            director or making copies for a pitch is more like it. But that’s life in
            an agency, and an internship can be a great place to learn what it’s
            really like. Offer to do anything for anyone. If you see a senior team
            working late, lean into their office and offer to help. They may take
            you up on it. That’s the break you need.
               A word of advice: Don’t stay in an internship too long; a couple
            of months is enough. And whatever else happens, make sure you’re
            not taken advantage of, either financially or personally. Sadly, it’s
            been known to happen.
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 294

            294                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

                                 SOME FINAL THOUGHTS.
            Once you land a job, stick with it awhile.
            There are going to be rough spots no matter where you work. There
            are no perfect agencies. I like to think I have worked at a couple of
            the best, and there were plenty of times I thought just about every-
            thing that could be wrong was wrong.
               Hang in there for a while. Things can change. An account that’s
            miserable one year can suddenly become the one everybody wants
            to work on. There’s also value in learning to stick with something
            long enough to see it through. Plus, it doesn’t look good to bail on a
            place inside of a year. Show some patience.
               If you’ve heard that the best way to increase your salary is to
            change jobs, it’s true. But I advise against job-hopping solely for
            that reason. If you’re at a good agency making a fair wage, stay
            there. Every six months or so, take a long, hard look at your portfo-
            lio. If it’s getting better, stay. Move on only when you’ve learned as
            much as you possibly can. You don’t want a resume that’s a long list
            of brief stints at agency after agency.

            Don’t let advertising mess up your life.
            On the same page that I say work hard, I also warn against working
            to the exclusion of all else. We all seem to take this silly advertising
            stuff so seriously. And at some shops, the work ethic isn’t even ethi-
            cal. People are implicitly expected to work till midnight pretty
            much full-time.
               When this happens, we end up working way too hard and ignor-
            ing our spouses, our partners, our friends, and our lives. Remember,
            ultimately, it’s just advertising. Compared to the important things in
            life, even a commercial that runs on the Super Bowl is still just an
            overblown coupon ad for Jell-O. Love, happiness, stability, sanity—
            those are the important things. Don’t forget it.

            Don’t underestimate yourself.
            Don’t think, “I shouldn’t bother sending my book to that agency.
            They’re too good.”
              All people are subject to low self-esteem, and I think creative
            people are particularly prone to it. I can think of several people in
15934_Sullivan_c12_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 295

                                 A Good Book or a Crowbar                   295

            our creative department who didn’t think they were good enough
            but sent their book on a lark, and we took them up on it.

            Don’t overestimate yourself.
            For some reason, a lot of people in this business develop huge egos.
            Yet none of us is saving lives. We are glorified sign painters and
            nothing more.
              Stay humble.
15934_Sullivan_c13_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM    Page 296

              Figure 13.1 Although Joe Paprocki and I did this ad, we didn’t think
                   up the visual for it. We just borrowed it from some other ad.
                          Then we went to lunch. What a great business.
15934_Sullivan_c13_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 297

                                           13
                         Making Shoes
                      versus Making Shoe
                         Commercials
                     Is this a great business or what?

            THIS IS A GREAT BUSINESS.
               What makes it great are all the knuckleheads. All the people just
            slightly left of center. This business seems to attract them. People
            who don’t find fulfillment anywhere else in the business world
            somehow end up on advertising’s doorstep, their personal problems
            clanking behind them like cans in back of a just-married car. They
            come for very personal reasons, with their own agendas. They bring
            to the business creativity, energy, and chaos, and from the business
            they get discipline, perspective, and maturity.
               All in all, they make for an interesting day at the office, these
            oddballs, artists, misfits, cartoonists, poets, beatniks, creepy quiet
            guys, and knuckleheads. Every one of them seems to have a great
            sense of humor.
               David Ogilvy once wrote, “People do not buy from clowns.” He
            was suggesting there is no place for humor in effective advertising.
            Forgetting for a moment whether Mr. Ogilvy was right, wrong, or
            extremely wrong, the thing is this: People do buy from clowns. Every
            day, millions of Americans use something sold by a clown, because
            the ad industry employs clowns by the tiny-circus-car-load.
15934_Sullivan_c13_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 298

            298                “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

               Don’t get me wrong, most of the people in the stories that follow
            are smart businesspeople. You’d want them on your team. But
            they’re world-class knuckleheads as well. Agencies are full of ’em.
               It’s just one clown after another all the way down the hallway.
            Knuckleheads in the mail room, knuckleheads answering the
            phones, knuckleheads in the CEO’s office . . . they’re everywhere.
               Why this should be so eludes me. I know only that most of every
            working day I spend laughing—at cynical hallway remarks, tasteless
            elevator bon mots, and bulletin board musings remarkable for their
            political incorrectness.
               Submitted for your approval: this collage of images, incidents,
            and idiocy culled from agency hallways and stairwells around the
            nation. All true. And all stupid.

            A finicky agency president has his own executive bathroom. No one
            else is allowed to use it, much less step in there. One day when the
            president is out to lunch, creatives are seen going into the bathroom
            carrying two muddy cowboy boots and a cigar.
               Cut to boss coming back from lunch. He goes into his private
            restroom and immediately comes back out, really pissed off. “Who
            in God’s name is the dumb cowboy sittin’ in my stall smokin’ a sto-
            gie?” His assistant has no clue.
               The boss waits outside for the cowboy to emerge. Ten minutes
            pass, and the boss peeks back in. The same creepy tableau pre-
            sents itself—muddy boots below the stall door, blue smoke curling
            above it.
               Cigars can smolder for about half an hour. Bosses, even longer.

            A creative director at a big agency decides to build a “communal
            area where creatives can relax.” The problem is, he builds it right
            outside his office. Any creatives with enough time to hang out there
            are usually spotted by the CD and handed one of those awful last-
            minute assignments nobody wants. (“Hey, can you write this live
            promotional tag?”)
              Creatives dub the area “The Meadow,” inspired by the movie
            Bambi—a dangerous wide-open area where hunters can put you in
            the crosshairs. The name catches on. Everybody starts referring to
            the area as The Meadow. So does the creative director, though he
            never understands the reference and wonders why his happy new
            area is constantly deserted.
15934_Sullivan_c13_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 299

                       Making Shoes versus Making Shoe Commercials            299

            Left behind in an empty conference room, a piece of paper with
            this idea for Penn tennis balls, using a spokesman (well, a
            spokesperson): “I got rid of my old balls and now I use Penn.”
            —Renee Richards

            A senior account guy decides to hose the “new meat.” Sends an
            e-mail to all the junior account people in their modular offices,
            informing them that the building management has hired “burlap
            rakers” to come in and spruce up the walls of the cubicles.
               “Please remove all materials tacked, stapled, or taped to your
            walls until you receive further notice from the burlap rakers.”
               The young account executives obey, but never receive further
            notice. A week later, the receptionist’s left eyebrow goes way up
            when a young account guy asks him, “Hey, do the burlap rakers
            come in at night or on the weekends?”

            Retrieved from the wastebasket in a writer’s office, this headline for
            a new dog shampoo: “Gee Your Ass Smells Terrific!”

            A big New York agency lands the Revlon account. The client says
            that only females understand the market and they want only
            women to work on the account. But a staffing crunch forces the
            traffic manager to assign a male writer—a guy named Mike. Mike is
            assigned a new name—Cindy. The client never meets Cindy, but
            receives e-mail from Cindy and reviews and approves great work
            from Cindy. “Cindy understands women.”

            Quotes from actual creative work sessions:
              “Which is funnier? ADHD or narcolepsy?”
              “Obviously, it needs more vomiting references.”
              “I’m serious, man. I just don’t think Julie Andrews would ever do
            that.”

            A writer, notorious for rummaging through people’s desks to steal
            food, purloins some specially made brownies containing four bars
15934_Sullivan_c13_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 300

            300                 “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            of Ex-Lax. Writer is seen a half an hour later in the hallways,
            looking pale, and is not seen again till the following Monday.

            Another account guy and a creative are having a heated discussion
            about the creative person’s vision for the agency.
              “So,” asks the account guy, finally getting testy. “What kind of
            work do you want to see the agency doing?”
              Creative says: “I wanna do the kind of work that’s in CA.”
              Account guy goes: “Then move back to California!”

            Junior account person writes this note next to every single
            paragraph of a rough ad layout with greeked-in text: “Please
            translate.”

            Favorite brave comeback to a client who said to make the logo
            bigger: “Put your face closer to the ad.”

            Okay, this next story, a prank, happened to me.
               I’m on a morning flight to a client meeting in St. Louis. It’s just
            me and my old boss, the president of a large advertising agency.
               It’s not a full flight, so I stake a claim to an empty row, set up
            shop, and get a little work done. My boss settles down a row behind
            me. After a while, I doze off. When I wake up 20 minutes later, my
            tray table is down, and on it, wide open to the centerfold, is a
            Penthouse magazine.
               Behind me I can hear my boss, snickering.
               God only knows how many stewardesses have walked by, seen me
            slumped there, my mouth gaping open. Twitching, probably.

            The “I quit” and the “You’re fired” stories are usually pretty good
            in this business; more florid and dramatic than what you’ll find in,
            say, the banking business. From my “Pathetic” file, here’s my
            favorite “You’re fired” story.
               Okay, so they have to fire this art director—lay him off is more
            accurate, because the agency had lost some business. They need to
            lay him off that very week, but the problem is, the guy’s suddenly in
            the hospital—some infection or something, but no big deal.
15934_Sullivan_c13_3p.r.qxp      1/2/08    10:12 AM     Page 301

                          Making Shoes versus Making Shoe Commercials                     301

               Still, the gears of capitalism must grind on, even if they’re in
            reverse, and so the guy’s boss shows up at the hospital asking to see
            him. The boss is told he’s not allowed in the infectious wing of the
            ward, so the poor schmuck is summoned from his hospital bed out
            to the lounge area, where he is fired and handed his severance
            check.
               The boss returns to the agency with a sad story that ends with the
            image of this poor guy limping back down the hospital hallway, one
            hand wheeling his IV apparatus, one hand holding his walking
            papers, and no hand left to hold his hospital gown shut. His freshly
            fired ass is last seen peeking out of his thin hospital gown as he
            walks back down the infectious hallway.

            The “You’re hired” stories aren’t bad, either.
               An aspiring ad student wants to get a job at one of the elite ad
            agencies in the country. But interviews there are hard to get.
               He cuts a picture of the agency’s creative director from a trade
            magazine, mounts it on a fake driver’s license, and laminates it per-
            fectly. He tucks the fake ID into an old, tattered wallet and then
            puts small copies of his best student work into the photo holders.
               Here’s the cool part.
               He visits the agency, asks to use the bathroom, and then aban-
            dons the wallet on the sink counter.
               The wallet’s “returned” to the desk of the CD, and the kid’s
            hired.*
               You have to admit it, this is a great business. Can you imagine
            breaking into the banking business with a stunt like that? (“Jenkins,
            people are still talkin’ about how you scribbled your investment port-
            folio on the mirror in the executive washroom. Another round for my
            man Jenkins here!”)

                      “ADVERTISING: THE MOST FUN YOU CAN HAVE
                              WITH YOUR CLOTHES ON.”
                                                             — Jerry Della Femina
            This is a great business.
              Look at what you’re doing. You’re an image merchant. You’re

            *Yes, in Chapter 12 I wrote, “Don’t do clever mailers.” But in Chapter 1, Ed McCabe
            said, “I have no use for rules. They only rule out the brilliant exception.”
15934_Sullivan_c13_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08     10:12 AM     Page 302

            302                    “Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This”

            weaving words and pictures together and imbuing inanimate
            objects with meaning and value.
               Mark Fenske said advertising is the world’s most powerful art
            form. Is he right? Well, Picasso was great, but I’ve never looked at
            one of his paintings and then walked off and did something Pablo
            wanted me to do. I know that sounds silly, but advertising is like no
            other form of creative communication, because it has the power to
            affect what people do. It works.
               In the 1920s, Claude Hopkins sat down in his office at Lord &
            Thomas and wrote “Drink an orange.” A nation began drinking
            fruit juice.
               Steve Hayden sat down in his office at Chiat/Day and wrote
            “Why 1984 won’t be like 1984” for Apple computers. A nation
            began thinking maybe computers belong in living rooms, not just in
            corporations.
               Dan Wieden sat down, wrote “Just Do It,” and changed the
            world.
               In 1978, there weren’t many joggers on the side of the road.
            (Even the word didn’t exist. Jogging. What the hell was that?) Now
            you can’t throw a stick out the window without hitting five of them.
               “Nike killed the three-martini lunch,” says Fenske. Nike told us
            to get off our collective butt and just do it, and suddenly it wasn’t
            okay anymore to lie around on the couch wallpapering our arteries
            with lard. We started taking the stairs. At the wheel of this national
            change of heart: an advertiser, a great agency, and the world’s most
            powerful art form—advertising.
               Whether you agree with Fenske that “Nike and Coke brought
            down the Berlin Wall,” the power of advertising to globalize icons
            and homogenize the buying habits of whole continents is undeniable.
               In Adcult USA, James Twitchell wrote:

              [Advertising] has collapsed . . . cultures into a monolithic, worldwide
              order immediately recognized by the House of Windsor and the tribe
              of Zulu. . . . If ever there is to be a global village, it will be because the
              town crier works in advertising.1

            This is a great business.
               Look at what you’re getting paid for: putting your feet up and
            thinking. This is what people with real jobs do when they get time
            off—put their feet up and daydream, drift, and think of goofy stuff.
            You, you’re getting a paycheck for it.
               I remember we had this new secretary in the creative department.
15934_Sullivan_c13_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:12 AM   Page 303

                        Making Shoes versus Making Shoe Commercials             303

            He kept walking into the offices of art directors and writers, inter-
            rupting their work, just to chat. Somebody finally said to him,“Listen,
            we’d love to talk another time, but we have to get this done. So if you
            could . . .”
              He backed out of the room, apologizing, “Geez, I’m sorry. You
            had your feet up. You were talking, laughing. It didn’t look like you
            were working.”

            This is, indeed, a great business.
               This fact was recently brought home to me during a train ride
            from downtown Chicago to O’Hare airport.
               I’d just left a very bad meeting where a client had killed a whole
            bunch of my work. I fumed for the first couple of miles. (“That was
            a really good campaign! They can’t kill it!”)
               As I sat there feeling sorry for myself, the gray factories passed
            by the train windows. Miles of factories. On the loading docks, I
            could see hundreds of hardworking people. Laborers forklifting
            crates of Bic pens onto trucks, hauling boxes of canned peaches
            onto freight cars. They’d been there since six o’clock in the morning,
            maybe five o’clock. These were hardworking people. With real jobs.
               And then there was me, feeling sorry for myself as I whipped by
            in an air-conditioned train on the way to my happy little seat on the
            plane with its free peanuts. Peanuts roasted and packed by some
            worker in another gray factory as he looked up at the clock on the
            high brick wall, waiting for the minute hand to hit that magic 10:30
            mark so he could get out of the noise for 15 minutes, drink a Coke,
            smoke a Winston, and then it’s back to packing my stinkin’ peanuts.
               I must remember this.
               There are research firms out there that will tell me the sky isn’t
            blue. Clients who will kill an ad because it has a blue flyswatter in it.
            And agencies that will make bloody fortunes on ideas like Mr.
            Whipple. Yet tomorrow I’ll be back in the hallways telling jokes
            with the funniest people in corporate America, putting my dirty
            sneakers on marble tabletops, and getting paid to think. Nothing
            more. Just to think. And to talk about movies.
               You should remember this, too.
               You’ll be paid a lot of money in this business. You’ll never have to
            do any heavy lifting. Never have dirt under your fingernails or an
            aching back when you come home from work. You’re lucky to be
            talented. Lucky to get into the business.
               Stay humble.
15934_Sullivan_c13_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 304
15934_Sullivan_c13_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 305

            Please feel free to give me your thoughts on this text and how I
            might improve subsequent editions. Probably the easiest way to
            send me your thoughts is to log on to the Hey, Whipple, Squeeze
            This page on amazon.com. Just look up the title of this book and
            you’ll see they have a place there for reader comments.
15934_Sullivan_c13_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 306
15934_Sullivan_bfurread_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 307

                              SUGGESTED READING

            Which doctor would you have perform your next surgery? The doc-
            tor who has a dusty biology textbook from med school moldering
            high on the shelf behind his desk? Or the doctor whose desk is piled
            high with copies of the last four years’ worth of the New England
            Journal of Medicine?
               I’m serious. Which doctor do you want standing over you with a
            scalpel? Well, if you propose to sell yourself as an expert to your
            clients, you’ll actually have to be an expert. You’ll have to read. And
            learn. And learn a lot. There is no shortcut to being the best. No
            easy way around it. You have to know your stuff and know it cold.
               The short list of books and online resources I’ve included here is
            only the beginning. They happen to be my favorites in the creative
            area. But there are many other disciplines you should be studying—
            marketing, branding, interactive—all of which will be relevant to
            your craft.
               There is no shortcut. This is how we learn it. Bit by bit. Remember:
            “Chance favors the prepared mind.”
               Read every old One Show and Communication Arts you can get
15934_Sullivan_bfurread_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 308

            308                       Suggested Reading

            your hands on. Read every British Design & Art Direction annual
            you can find.
                Become a student of advertising history. On the subject of history,
            I’ll list these titles: When Advertising Tried Harder, by Larry Dubrow;
            Remember Those Great Volkswagen Ads? by David Abbott; From
            Those Wonderful Folks Who Brought You Pearl Harbor, by Jerry
            Della Femina; Inside Collett Dickenson Pearce, by Ritchie and
            Salmon; A Book About The Classic Avis Advertising Campaign of the
            60s, by Ericksson and Holmgren; Helmut Krone. The Book, by Clive
            Challis; and also Advertising Today, by Warren Berger.
                Then there’s Warren Berger’s other book, Hoopla: A book about
            Crispin Porter ⫹ Bogusky. Expensive, but a good look inside that
            agency.
                Advertising: Concept and Copy, by George Felton, is a wonderful
            textbook on the craft. Excellent, detailed advice on how to think,
            how to write. Good stuff.
                Cutting Edge Advertising, by Jim Aitchison, is one of the better
            books out there on how to write a decent print ad.
                Ernie Schenck is the author of The Houdini Solution: Put
            Creativity and Innovation to Work by Thinking Inside the Box. The
            smaller your budgets, the more you need this book.
                Creative Advertising: Ideas and Techniques from the World’s Best
            Campaigns, by Mario Pricken. This hard-to-find and kind of expen-
            sive book is very good. Great ideas on getting great ideas. Lots of
            cool ads in it, too.
                e, by Matt Beaumont, is a novel of life inside an agency told
            entirely in e-mails. It is hilarious.
                Truth, Lies, and Advertising: The Art of Account Planning, by Jon
            Steel, is the single best book on how smart brand planning adds
            value to the whole creative process. Steel is also the author of
            Perfect Pitch: The Art of Selling Ideas and Winning New Business.
            He’s a joy to read and so smart.
                Eating the Big Fish: How Challenger Brands Can Compete
            Against Brand Leaders, by Adam Morgan. Such a brilliant read. The
            title pretty much explains what this book is about: how to outsmart
            the competition when you can’t outspend them.
                Strunk & White’s The Elements of Style is required reading for
            anyone who holds a pencil anywhere near paper.
                For the sheer joy of writing, I recommend Natalie Goldberg’s
            Writing Down the Bones and Anne Lamott’s Bird by Bird.
                If you’re just trying to break into the business, I recommend
            Vonk and Kestin’s Pick Me: Breaking into Advertising and Staying
15934_Sullivan_bfurread_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 309

                                      Suggested Reading                       309

            There. A little older, but still helpful, is Maxine Paetro’s How to Put
            Your Book Together and Get a Job in Advertising.
               And, if you can get them to, have your client read Dick
            Wasserman’s wonderful That’s Our New Ad Campaign? It’s out of
            print, but if you find one, get it. It’s great.
               Also, next time you’re in Czestochowa or Gdansk, pick up a copy
            of the excellent Jak Robic Switene Reklamy. And for you readers in
            Constantinople, I highly recommend the incredible Satan Reklam
            Yaratmak. (Okay, I’m kiddin’. They’re just translations of this
            book.)
15934_Sullivan_bfurread_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 310
15934_Sullivan_bbiblio_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:13 AM   Page 311

                                   BIBLIOGRAPHY

            Adams, James, L. Conceptual Blockbusting. Reading, MA: Addison-
              Wesley Publishing Co. Inc., 1974.
            Aitchison, Jim. Cutting Edge Advertising: How to Create the World’s
              Best Print for Brands in the 21st Century. New York: Prentice
              Hall, 1999.
            Berger, Warren. Hoopla: A Book about Crispin Porter & Bogusky.
              Brooklyn, NY: Powerhouse Books, 2006.
            Bernbach, Bill. Bill Bernbach said . . . New York: DDB Needham,
              1995.
            Burton, Phillip Ward, and Scott C. Purvis. Which Ad Pulled Best: 50
              Case Histories on How to Write and Design Ads That Work.
              Lincolnwood, IL: NTC Business Books, 1996.
            Clark, Eric.The Want Makers. New York: Viking, 1988.
            Cook, Marshall. Freeing Your Creativity: A Writer’s Guide.
              Cincinnati, OH: Writer’s Digest Books, 1992.
            Corporate Report magazine, Minneapolis, MN, 1982.
            D&AD Mastercraft Series.The Art Director Book. Switzerland:
              Rotovision, 1997.
15934_Sullivan_bbiblio_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:13 AM   Page 312

            312                        Bibliography

            D&AD Mastercraft Series.The Copy Book. Switzerland: Rotovision,
              1995.
            Dru, Jean-Marie. Disruption: Overturning Conventions and Shaking
              Up the Marketplace. New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1998.
            Foster, Jack. How to Get Ideas. San Francisco: Berret-Koehler
              Publishers, 1996.
            Fowler, David. The Creative Companion. New York: Ogilvy, 2003.
            Goodrum, Charles, and Helen Dalrymple. Advertising In America:
              The First 200 Years. New York: Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 1990.
            Gossage, Howard Luck. The Book of Gossage. Chicago: The Copy
              Workshop, 1995.
            Higgins, Denis. The Art of Writing Advertising. Lincolnwood, IL:
              NTC Business Books, 1965.
            Hoff, Ron. I Can See You Naked. Kansas City, MO: Andrews &
              McMeel, 1992.
            Ind, Nicholas. Great Advertising Campaigns. Lincolnwood, IL: NTC
              Business Books, 1993.
            Jaffe, Joseph. Life After the 30-Second Spot: Energize Your Brand
              with a Bold Mix of Alternatives to Traditional Advertising.
              Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, 2004.
            Lamott, Anne. Bird by Bird. New York: Doubleday, 1994.
            Landa, Robin. Advertising by Design. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley &
              Sons, 2004.
            Lee, Bruce. Acting on TV: Direct Response Television and How It
              Works. From the Ogilvy web site, visited June 28, 2007, http://
              www.ogilvy.com/viewpoint/index.php?vptype⫽TOC&iMagaId⫽4.
            Lyons, John. Guts: Advertising from the Inside Out. New York:
              Amacom, 1987.
            Matthews, John E. The Copywriter. Glen Ellyn, IL: self-published,
              1964.
            Mayer, Martin. Whatever Happened to Madison Avenue? Boston,
              MA: Little Brown & Company, 1991.
            McAlhone, Beryl, and David Stuart. A Smile in the Mind: Witty
              Thinking in Graphic Design. London: Phaidon Press Ltd., 1996.
            Minksy, Laurence. How to Succeed in Advertising When All You
              Have Is Talent. Chicago: The Copy Workshop, 2007.
            Monahan, Tom. From Communication Arts magazine, Palo Alto, CA.
            ———. The Do-It-Yourself Lobotomy. New York: John Wiley &
              Sons, 2002.
            Ogilvy, David. Confessions of an Advertising Man. New York:
              Atheneum, 1963.
            One Club, The. Pencil Pointers newsletter. New York, 1995.
15934_Sullivan_bbiblio_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:13 AM    Page 313

                                        Bibliography                          313

            Paetro, Maxine. How to Put Your Book Together and Get a Job in
              Advertising. Chicago, IL: The Copy Workshop, 1990.
            Pricken, Mario. Creative Advertising: Ideas and Techniques from the
              World’s Best Campaigns. London: Thames & Hudson, 2002.
            Ries, Al, and Jack Trout. Marketing Warfare. New York: McGraw-
              Hill, 1986.
            Ries, Al, and Jack Trout. Positioning: The Battle for Your Mind. New
              York: McGraw-Hill, 1981.
            Roman, Kenneth, and Jane Maas. The New How to Advertise. New
              York: St. Martin’s Press, 1992.
            Schenck, Ernie. The Houdini Solution: Put Creativity and
              Innovation to Work by Thinking Inside the Box. New York:
              McGraw-Hill, 2006.
            Schulberg, Bob. Radio Advertising: The Authoritative Handbook.
              Lincolnwood, IL: NTC Business Books, 1994.
            Steel, Jon. Truth, Lies, and Advertising: The Art of Account Planning.
              New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1998.
            Twitchell, James. B. Adcult USA: The Triumph of Advertising in
              American Culture. New York: Columbia University, 1996.
            ———. Twenty Ads That Shook the World. New York: Crown
              Publishers, 2000.
            Vonk, Nancy, and Janet Kestin. Pick Me: Breaking into Advertising
              and Staying There. New York: John Wiley & Sons, 2005.
            Wakeman, Frederick. The Hucksters. Scranton, PA: Rinehart &
              Company, 1946.
            Wallace, Dave. Break Out! Grand Rapids, MI: Ainsco Incorporated,
              1994.
            Wall Street Journal, Creative Leaders Series. New York: Dow Jones
              & Company, 1993.
            Warren, Jim, and Sheena Paul, Smart Advertising. (Unpublished
              paper.)
            Wasserman, Dick. That’s Our New Ad Campaign? New York: The
              New Lexington Press, 1988.
            Weiner, Ellis. Decade of the Year. New York: Dutton, 1982.
            Wypijewski, JoAnn, ed. Paint by Numbers: Komar and Melamid’s
              Scientific Guide to Art. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1997.
            Young, James Webb. Technique for Producing Ideas. Chicago, IL:
              Advertising Publications, Inc., 1944.
15934_Sullivan_bbiblio_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:13 AM   Page 314
15934_Sullivan_bsource_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 315

                               ONLINE RESOURCES

            One of the best ways to learn about the world of advertising is to
            bookmark the better web sites that are out there. Some are blogs,
            some are rants, and some are just cool places to look at new
            commercials.
              I did a survey with my ad friends, asking them what their fave
            online resources are. They were all nice enough to return e-mails
            positively glowing with underlined links in blue type ready to whisk
            me into the ether. I went down the rabbit hole and must’ve studied
            two or three hundred of them by the time I realized that trying to
            publish a list of the best sites (on paper, in a book, at least) would
            suck. The online world constantly changes, and any working Web
            address I list here today may get a “Can’t find server” tomorrow.
            You’ll also find that a single address is enough to get you started,
            because most of the sites (the blogs, anyway) include a list of
            favorite links; one attaches to another like coat hangers at the bot-
            tom of your closet. Grab one, you get the rest.
              I happen to like my buddy’s site: Ernie Schenck Calls This
            Advertising? Also, some folks in Canada put out a great site called
            ihaveanidea.org. If your agency subscribes to adcritic.com, check
            that one out. Start with those.
15934_Sullivan_bsource_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:12 AM   Page 316
15934_Sullivan_bnotes_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:13 AM   Page 317

                                           NOTES

                                          CHAPTER 1
             1. Martin Mayer, Whatever Happened to Madison Avenue? (Boston:
                Little, Brown & Company, 1991), 46.
             2. Kenneth Roman and Jane Maas, The New How to Advertise (New
                York: St. Martin’s Press, 1992), 38.
             3. John Lyons, Guts: Advertising from the Inside Out (New York:
                Amacom, 1987), 115.
             4. Frederick Wakeman, The Hucksters (Scranton, PA: Rinehart &
                Company, 1946), 22.
             5. Ibid., 45.
             6. Wall Street Journal, Creative Leaders Series (New York: Dow Jones &
                Company), 12.
             7. Phillip Ward Burton and Scott C. Purvis, Which Ad Pulled Best: 50
                Case Histories on How to Write and Design Ads That Work
                (Lincolnwood, IL: NTC Business Books, 1996), 24.
             8. Bill Bernbach, Bill Bernbach Said . . . (Not paginated).
             9. William Souder, “Hot Shop,” Corporate Report (September 1982).
15934_Sullivan_bnotes_3p.r.qxp    1/2/08    10:13 AM   Page 318

            318                              Notes

            10. Al Ries and Jack Trout, Positioning: The Battle for Your Mind (New
                York: McGraw-Hill, 1981), 24.
            11. Ted Morgan, A Close-Up Look at a Successful Agency p. 300.
            12. Bernbach, Bill Bernbach Said . . ..
            13. John Ward, “Four Facets of Advertising Performance Measurement,”
                in The Longer and Broader Effects of Advertising, ed. Chris Baker
                (London: Institute of Practitioners in Advertising, 1990), 44.
            14. Sandra Karl, “Creative Man Helmut Krone Talks about the Making of
                an Ad,” Advertising Age (October 14, 1968).
            15. Bill Bernbach, Bill Bernbach Said . . . (Not paginated).

                                           CHAPTER 2
             1. James Charlton, ed., The Writer’s Quotation Book: A Literary
                Companion (New York: Viking-Penguin, 1980), 55.
             2. Wall Street Journal, Creative Leaders Series, 5.
             3. Eric Clark, The Want Makers (New York: Viking, 1988), 24.
             4. James Webb Young, Technique for Producing Ideas (Chicago:
                Advertising Publications, Inc., 1944).
             5. D&AD Mastercraft Series, The Copy Book (Switzerland: Rotovision,
                1995), 68.
             6. Wall Street Journal, Creative Leaders Series, 41.
             7. Jean-Marie Dru, Disruption: Overturning Conventions and Shaking
                Up the Marketplace (New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1998), 151.

                                           CHAPTER 3
             1. Tom Monahan, The Do-It-Yourself Lobotomy (New York: John Wiley
                & Sons, 2002), 84.
             2. Clark, The Want Makers, 54.
             3. Warren Berger, Hoopla: A Book about Crispin Porter & Bogusky
                (Brooklyn, NY: Powerhouse Books, 2006), 160.
             4. Al Ries and Jack Trout, Marketing Warfare (New York: McGraw-Hill,
                1986), 70.
             5. Dru, Disruption, 157.
             6. Anne Lamott, Bird by Bird (New York: Doubleday, 1994), 23.
             7. Mario Pricken, Creative Advertising: Ideas and Techniques from the
                World’s Best Campaigns (London: Thames & Hudson, 2002), 22.
             8. Marshall Cook, Freeing Your Creativity: A Writer’s Guide (Cincinnati,
                OH: Writer’s Digest Books, 1992), 7.
15934_Sullivan_bnotes_3p.r.qxp     1/2/08    10:13 AM   Page 319

                                              Notes                                319

             9. David Fowler, The Creative Companion (New York: Ogilvy, 2003), 7.
            10. Jim Aitchison, Cutting Edge Advertising: How to Create the World’s
                Best Print for Brands in the 21st Century (Singapore: Prentice-Hall,
                1999), 135.
            11. D&AD Mastercraft Series, The Art Director Book (Switzerland:
                Rotovision, 1997), 44.
            12. Bernbach, Bill Bernbach Said . . ..
            13. New York Times Magazine (December 10, 2006), 68.
            14. James L. Adams, Conceptual Blockbusting (Reading, MA: Addison-
                Wesley Publishing Co., 1974), 66.
            15. Beryl McAlhone and David Stuart, A Smile in the Mind: Witty
                Thinking in Graphic Design (London: Phaedon Press Ltd., 1996), 19.
            16. Howard Luck Gossage, The Book of Gossage (Chicago: The Copy
                Workshop, 1995), 114, 115.

                                            CHAPTER 4
             1. Monahan, The Do It Yourself Lobotomy, 90.
             2. Phillip Ward Burton and Scott C. Purvis, Which Ad Pulled Best: 50 Case
                Histories on How to Write and Design Ads That Work (Lincolnwood,
                IL: NTC Business Books, 1996), 26.
             3. Karl, “Creative Man Helmut KroneTalks about the Making of an Ad.”
             4. Lyons, Guts, 167.
             5. Fowler, The Creative Companion, 19.
             6. Nancy Vonk and Janet Kestin, Pick Me: Breaking into Advertising and
                Staying There (New York: John Wiley & Sons, 2005), 83.
             7. George Kneller, The Art and Science of Creativity (New York: Holt,
                Rinehart & Winston, 1965), 55.
             8. Wall Street Journal, Creative Leaders Series, 20.

                                            CHAPTER 5
             1. Fowler, The Creative Companion, 31.

                                            CHAPTER 6
             1. Jim Warren and Sheena Paul, Smart Advertising (Unpublished paper).
             2. Bruce Lee, Acting on TV: Direct Response Television and How It Works
                (From the Ogilvy web site, visited June 28, 2007, http://www.ogilvy.com/
                viewpoint/index.php?vptype⫽TOC&iMagaId⫽4).
15934_Sullivan_bnotes_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:13 AM   Page 320

            320                             Notes

             3. Ibid.
             4. Vonk and Kestin, Pick Me, 112.

                                          CHAPTER 7
             1. Tom Monahan, Communication Arts (July 1994), 198.

                                          CHAPTER 8
             1. “New media” (Wikipedia web site, visited July 7, 2007, http://en
                .wikipedia.org/wiki/New_media).
             2. Laurence Minksy, How to Succeed in Advertising When All You Have
                Is Talent (Chicago: The Copy Workshop, 2007), 313.
             3. Quotation from Tony Granger, Creativity (June, 2007), 10.
             4. Berger, Hoopla, 406.
             5. Robin Landa, Advertising by Design (Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley &
                Sons, 2004), 236.
             6. Joseph Jaffee, Life After the 30-Second Spot: Energize Your Brand
                with a Bold Mix of Alternatives to Traditional Advertising (Hoboken,
                NJ: John Wiley & Sons, 2004), 219.
             7. Rob Schwartz, Shoot (June 7, 2002), 24.

                                          CHAPTER 9
             1. Karl, “Creative Man Helmut Krone Talks about the Making of an
                Ad.”
             2. Daniel Pope, The Making of Modern Advertising. (New York: Basic
                Books, 1983), 4.

                                        CHAPTER 10
             1. Wall Street Journal, Creative Leaders Series, 44.
             2. “The average length of a CMO’s tenure across corporate America
                has been dropping in recent years—down from 23.6 months in 2003 to
                23.2 months in 2006, according to a Spencer Stuart study,” Adweek
                (June 4, 2007).
             3. Ellis Weiner, Decade of the Year (New York: Dutton, 1982).
15934_Sullivan_bnotes_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:13 AM   Page 321

                                            Notes                             321

                                        CHAPTER 11
             1. Ron Hoff, I Can See You Naked (Kansas City, MO: Andrews &
                McMeel, 1992), 30.
             2. Dick Wasserman, That’s Our New Ad Campaign? (New York: New
                Lexington Press, 1988), 3.
             3. Alastair Crompton, The Craft of Copywriting: How to Write Great
                Copy That Sells (Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1979), 166.
             4. Fowler, The Creative Companion, 3.
             5. Tom Monahan, Communication Arts (May/June 1994), 29.
             6. Bob Schulberg, Radio Advertising: The Authoritative Handbook
                (Lincolnwood, IL: NTC Business Books, 1994), 234.
             7. Tim Delaney, “Basic Instincts,” One to One: Newsletter of One Club
                for Art & Copy (November/December 1994), 1.
             8. Alexander Melamid and Vitaly Komar, Paint by Numbers: Komar and
                Melamid’s Scientific Guide to Art, ed. JoAnn Wypijewski (New York:
                Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1997).
             9. Tom Monahan, Communication Arts (September/October 1994), 67.
            10. Wasserman, That’s Our New Ad Campaign?, 37, 38.
            11. Bernbach, Bill Bernbach Said . . ..
            12. A. Jerome Jeweler, Creative Strategies in Advertising (Belmont, CA:
                Wadsworth-ITP Publishing, 1995), 171.

                                        CHAPTER 12
             1. Laurence Minksy, How to Succeed in Advertising When All You Have
                Is Talent, 183.

                                        CHAPTER 13
             1. James B. Twitchell, Adcult USA: The Triumph of Advertising in
                American Culture (New York: Columbia University, 1996), 43.
15934_Sullivan_bnotes_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:13 AM   Page 322
15934_Sullivan_back_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:13 AM   Page 323

                               ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

            Cover design by Craig Denham and David Crawford of GSD&M,
            Austin, Texas.
              I would like to thank the following people for help in writing this
            book: My wife, Curlin Reed Sullivan, Dan Ahearn, Richard Apel,
            Kim Baffi, Bob Barrie, Jamie Barrett, Betsy Barnum, David Bell,
            Andre Bergeron, Andy Berlin, Kevin Berigan, Bob Blewett, Alex
            Bogusky, Laurie Brown, Rob Buchner, Pat Burnham, Cathy Carlisi,
            Tim Cole, Scott Cooley, David Crawford, Markham Cronin, Russell
            Curtis, Gina Dante, Clay Davies, Craig Denham, James Embry,
            Mark Fenske, Kevin Flatt, Ashley Fortune, Anne Fredrickson, Betty
            Gamadge, Yosune George, Tom Gibson, Wayne Gibson, Glenn Gill,
            Kevin Griffith, Tiffany Groglio at Wiley, Al Hampel, Phil Hanft,
            Cabell Harris, Sam Harrison, David Jelly Helm, Carol Henderson,
            Joel Hermann, Bill Hillsman, Adrian Hilton, Sally Hogshead, Blue
            Hopkins, Clay Hudson, Paul Huggett, Mike Hughes, Gary Johns,
            Pruie Jingle James Jones Johnson, KatMo, Kathy Jydstrup, Claire
            Kerby, Lori Kraft, Jim Lacey, Greg Lane, Mike & Kelley & Henry
            & Owen Lear, Dany Lennon, Andy Lerner, Mike Lescarbeau, Tom
            Lichtenheld, John Mahoney, Tom McElligott, Tom McEnery, Doug
15934_Sullivan_back_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:13 AM   Page 324

            324                         Acknowledgments

            Melroe, Karen Melvin, Lucy Meredith, Ruth Mills, Larry Minsky,
            Andrea and Natalie Minze, Mister Mister, Tom Monahan, Marina
            Monsante, Ty Montague, Ken Musto, Richard Narramore (my kind
            editor at Wiley), Ted Nelson, Tom Nelson, Diane O’Hara, Judy
            Popky, Gene Powers, Kevin Proudfoot, Cathy Orman, Johnathan
            Ozer, Hal Pickle, Margot Reed, Col. William Preston Reed, Joey
            Reiman, Mike Renfro, Hank Richardson, Tania Rochelle, Isvel
            Rodriguez, Tom Rosen, Nancy Rubenstein, Daniel Russ, Cecily
            Sapp, Elizabeth Stickley Scott, Ron Seichrist, Fred, Marty, and
            Jennifer Senn, Mal Sharpe, Joan Shealy, Montrew Smith, Pete
            Smith, Roy Spence, Thad Spencer, Myra Longstreet Sullivan, good
            ol’ Joe Sweet, Kirsten Taklo, Diane Cook Tench, Mary Tetlow, Tom
            Thomas, Rob Thompson, Jerry Torchia, Judy Trabulsi, Eric
            Valentine, Rob Vann, Carol Vick, Christa von Staaveren, Tiffany
            Warin, Mary Warlick, Jim Warren, Mike Weed, Craig Weise, Jean
            Weisman, Howard Willenzik, Judy Wittenburg, Bill Wright, and
            Steve & Charlie Wolff.
15934_Sullivan_bindex_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:13 AM    Page 325

                                           INDEX

            A                                           on founding an agency, 5
            Adjective, brand equals,                    on primary purpose, 67
                26–29, 33                               on principles, 292
            Ad schools, 271–272                         on the product, 30, 68
            Anvils, Acme® brand,                        on research, 249
                259                                     on truth, 6, 23
            Apple computer, 23, 98, 100,              Body copy:
                119, 134, 189                           in ads, 98–106
                                                        avoiding long introductions
                                                          in, 101
            B                                           basic structure of, 101
            Barrie, Bob, 14, 202,                       conversational style,
                233–234                                   99–100
            Bernbach, Bill, 140                         details in, 103
             on being provocative,                      long-copy, 216–217,
                57–58                                     281–282
             on execution, 9, 200                     Brands, 20–21, 134, 176
             on formula, 14                             equals adjective, 26–29, 33
15934_Sullivan_bindex_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:13 AM        Page 326

            326                               Index

            Budgets, for television                   E
                commercials, 118, 123                 Economist, The, 61–62, 93–94,
            Bullies, 223–224                             95, 96, 180, 184
                                                      Emotion, 43, 46, 143, 145, 151,
                                                         202, 203, 243–244, 260
            C                                         Equity, 20
            Casting, in radio, 167–169                Exaggeration chip, 59–60
            Charmin, 1, 2, 3, 8, 26
            Chiat/Day, 118
            Clichés, 153, 241                         F
            Clown suit, washing blood                 Fascism Lite, 264
                out of, 233                           Fenske, Mark, 266
            Clutter, simplicity as the cure             on advertising, 302
                for, 72–73                              on big ideas, 196
            Communication Arts                          on defending work, 231
                magazine, 12, 89, 109,                  on DRTV, 144
                114, 119, 151, 280,                     on logic, 203
                300                                     on open-mindedness, 30
            Commercials:                                on producing dead ads, 267
              radio, 149–172                          Foam Core Furnace, 209
              TV, 127–129                             Focus groups, 34, 217–222,
            Copy-testing. See Reading of                  247–253
                sheep entrails                        Fowler, David, 45, 107, 125,
            Creative leverage, 189                        245
            Creative process, 21–24,                  Froggy Lady, 220–221
                37–79, 82, 200
            Crispin, Porter + Bogusky, 40,
                56–57, 142, 182, 183, 185,            G
                188                                   Gossage, Howard, 67, 78, 189
            Cubicle plankton, 213                     GSD&M, 40, 47, 187–188
                                                      Guerrilla advertising, 181,
                                                         189–190
            D
            D&AD, 34, 114
            Day in the life, 176–177                  H
            Design, 95                                Hacks, 224–227
            Details (in body copy), 103                on crack from Hackensack,
              sweating the, 105                           107
            Direct-response television,               Hallway Beasts, 224–234
                131–147                               Hayden, Steve, 22
            “Doing a 360˚”, 212                       Headline, 84–95
15934_Sullivan_bindex_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08    10:13 AM       Page 327

                                             Index                              327

             clichés, 92, 94                          L
             completing the visual,                   Lamott, Anne, 43, 223
                88, 92                                Lear, Mike, 187, 273
             doing methodically,                      Literally, taking an idea,
                84–89                                     258–262
             negative, 254–255                        Logic, 134–136, 141, 142, 145,
             puns in, avoid like                          203, 244, 259–260
                plague, 84                            Logo, 57
            Hogshead, Sally, 89, 107                    ads without logos, 264
            Home for Tired Old                          can you make it bigger?,
                Visuals, 55                               262–265
            Hour Gobbler, 232–234
            Hughes, Mike, 114, 136, 293
                                                      M
                                                      Martin Agency, 98, 114, 122,
            I                                            136, 293
            Idea:                                     Martini, Yesman &
              coming up with, 37–79                      Longlunch, 214
              generation, 21–24,                      McCabe, Ed, 15, 102, 150,
                112                                      226, 274, 290
              getting from the                        McElligott, Tom, 12, 74, 242,
                marketplace, 107–109                     285, 292
              Linus Pauling on, 82                    Meat Puppets, 209–214
              over the wall, 81                       Meetings, run from, 232–234
            Index, that would be, um, this            Metaphor:
                page                                   ad examples, 62–64
            Infomercials, 133, 142–147                 description, 61
            Interning, 293                             stop sign as, 69
            Interviewing, 286–295                     MINI, 57, 174, 185–186,
                                                         274
                                                      Monahan, Tom, 39, 89, 169,
            K                                            247, 255
            Kestin, Janet, 107, 146–147,              Money, 227–228, 294
                194
            Koncept Krusher 2000®,
                217–222                               N
            Krone, Helmut, 7, 14                      Naughty, on the value of
             on design, 96–97                             being, 183–188
             on how to do an                          New media, 175–196, 281
                ad, 37                                Nike, 61–62, 68, 200–201, 274,
             on “new,” 199–200                            302
15934_Sullivan_bindex_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08   10:13 AM       Page 328

            328                            Index

            Norwegian Cruise Line,                   S
               189–190                               Simplicity, 68–74
                                                       in billboards, 74–76
                                                       Cezanne on, 70
            O                                          Henry David Thoreau
            One Show, 12, 24, 34, 72,                    on, 68
               78–79, 89, 96, 109, 110,                Maurice Saatchi on, 68
               114, 120, 175                           Michelangelo on, 69
            Outdoor advertising, 74–78                 in television, 118, 123
                                                     Sisyphus, 208–209
                                                     Slash Weasels, 230–232
            P                                        Sound effects, in radio,
            Pablum Park, 214–217                         163–167
            People People®, 214–215                  Story, 121, 125, 136, 144
            Planning, account, 31                    Strategy, 21, 31–34, 37–38,
            Portfolio, 271–285                           42–43, 181, 243
            Positioning, description,                Stuck, what to do when
                9, 29                                    you’re, 106–111
            Presentation, 239–247
            Production, radio, 169–172
            Protecting work, 253–266                 T
            Public Relations (PR),                   Tag lines. See Schmag lines
                191–192                              Television commercials,
                                                         116–129
                                                       15-second, 127
            R                                          visual solutions in,
            Radio, 149–172                               120–121
             dialogue in, 157–160, 168               Testing. See Research
             humor in, 151–155                       Tommyrot, flimflam and,
             jingles in (see poisonous                   141
                toads)                               Twitchell, James B., 143, 302
             writing for, 150–163
            Rectal itch, 451
            Reductionism, 73–74                      U
            Research, 29, 217–222, 238,              Unique selling proposition, 5
                247–253
             arguments against
                pretesting concepts,                 V
                248–250                              Viral, ad, 192–195
             creating “art,” 251–253                 Visual:
             huge mistakes in, 250                     clichés, 35, 55
15934_Sullivan_bindex_3p.r.qxp   1/2/08      10:13 AM     Page 329

                                              Index                                329

             solutions in print, 46–47,                 W
                52–57                                   Wack Jobs, 230–232
             solutions in television, 120,              Wasserman, Dick, 211, 243,
                125                                         260
            Voice:                                      Whiners, 229–230
             in radio, 151–155                          Whipple, 1–5, 8, 26, 112, 226,
             in writing, 100–102, 139                       257, 303
            Voice-over, 167–171                         White, E.B., 102
            Volkswagen, 6, 7, 8, 39, 50,                Wieden & Kennedy, 123,
                65–66, 101, 182, 250                        200
            Vonk, Nancy, 107, 146–147,                  Writing, 43–44, 82–106, 118,
                194                                         251
