This book has been optimized for viewing
at a monitor setting of 1024 x 768 pixels.
MADE TO
STICK
random house   a new york
 MADE TO
STICK
Why Some Ideas Survive
    and Others Die

         • • •

    C H I P H E AT H
           &

     D A N H E AT H
     Copyright © 2007 by Chip Heath and Dan Heath

                    All rights reserved.

    Published in the United States by Random House,
   an imprint of The Random House Publishing Group,
       a division of Random House, Inc., New York.

       Random House and colophon are registered
           trademarks of Random House, Inc.

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
                        Heath, Chip.
   Made to stick : why some ideas survive and others die /
                 Chip Heath & Dan Heath
                          p. cm.
                       Includes index.
                eISBN: 978-1-58836-596-5
 1. Social psychology. 2. Contagion (Social psychology).
3. Context effects (Psychology). I. Heath, Dan. II. Title.
                     HM1033.H43 2007
            302'.13—dc22            2006046467

                   www.atrandom.com

             Designed by Stephanie Huntwork

                            v1.0
To Dad, for driving an old tan Chevette
   while putting us through college.

   To Mom, for making us breakfast
  every day for eighteen years. Each.
                               C O N T E N T S

                               INTRODUCTION

                          WHAT STICKS?
                                       3

Kidney heist. Movie popcorn. Sticky = understandable, memorable, and ef-
fective in changing thought or behavior. Halloween candy. Six principles:
SUCCESs. The villain: Curse of Knowledge. It’s hard to be a tapper. Creativity
starts with templates.

                                  CHAPTER 1

                                 SIMPLE
                                       25

Commander’s Intent. THE low-fare airline. Burying the lead and the inverted
pyramid. It’s the economy, stupid. Decision paralysis. Clinic: Sun exposure.
Names, names, and names. Simple = core + compact. Proverbs. The Palm
Pilot wood block. Using what’s there. The pomelo schema. High concept: Jaws
on a spaceship. Generative analogies: Disney’s “cast members.”

                                  CHAPTER 2

                           UNEXPECTED
                                       63

The successful ﬂight safety announcement. The surprise brow. Gimmicky sur-
prise and “postdictability.” Breaking the guessing machine. “The Nordie
who . . .” “No school next Thursday.” Clinic: Too much on foreign aid? Saturn’s
rings. Movie turning points. Gap theory of curiosity. Clinic: Fund-raising. Prim-
ing the gap: NCAA football. Pocketable radio. Man on the moon.
                                   CHAPTER 3

                             CONCRETE
                                       98

Sour grapes. Landscapes as eco-celebrities. Teaching subtraction with less ab-
straction. Soap-opera accounting. Velcro theory of memory. Brown eyes, blue
eyes. Engineers vs. manufacturers. The Ferraris go to Disney World. White
things. The leather computer. Clinic: Oral rehydration therapy. Hamburger
Helper and Saddleback Sam.

                                   CHAPTER 4

                               CREDIBLE
                                       130

The Nobel-winning scientist no one believed. Flesh-eating bananas. Authority
and antiauthority. Pam Lafﬁn, smoker. Powerful details. Jurors and the Darth
Vader toothbrush. The dancing seventy-three year old. Statistics: Nuclear war-
heads as BBs. The human-scale principle. Ofﬁcemates as a soccer team.
Clinic: Shark attack hysteria. The Sinatra Test. Transporting Bollywood movies.
Edible fabric. Where’s the beef? Testable credentials. The Emotional Tank.
Clinic: Our ﬂawed intuition. NBA rookie camp.

                                   CHAPTER 5

                            EMOTIONAL
                                       165

The Mother Teresa principle: If I look at the one, I will act. Beating smoking with
the Truth. Semantic stretch and why unique isn’t unique. Reclaiming “sports-
manship.” Schlocky but masterful mail-order ads. WIIFY. Cable television in
Tempe. Avoiding Maslow’s basement. Dining in Iraq. The popcorn popper and
political science. Clinic: Why study algebra? Don’t mess with Texas. Who cares
about duo piano? Creating empathy.
                                          CHAPTER 6

                                        STORIES
                                               204

The day the heart monitor lied. Shop talk at Xerox. Helpful and unhelpful visu-
alizations. Stories as ﬂight simulators. Clinic: Dealing with problem students.
Jared, the 425-pound fast-food dieter. Spotting inspiring stories. The Chal-
lenge Plot. The Connection Plot. The Creativity Plot. Springboard stories at the
World Bank: A health worker in Zambia. How to make presenters angry with
stories.

                                           E P I LO G U E

                                 WHAT STICKS
                                               238

Nice guys ﬁnish last. Elementary, my dear Watson. The power of spotting.
Curse of Knowledge again. Pay attention, understand, believe, care, and act.
Sticky problems: symptoms and solutions. John F. Kennedy versus Floyd Lee.

           M A K I N G I D E A S S T I C K : T H E E A S Y R E F E R E N C E G U I D E 253
                                           N O T E S 259
                                A C K N O W L E D G M E N T S 277
                                           I N D E X 281
MADE TO
STICK
                        I N T R O D U C T I O N

          WHAT STICKS?

         friend of a friend of ours is a frequent business traveler. Let’s

A        call him Dave. Dave was recently in Atlantic City for an im-
         portant meeting with clients. Afterward, he had some time to
kill before his ﬂight, so he went to a local bar for a drink.
    He’d just ﬁnished one drink when an attractive woman ap-
proached and asked if she could buy him another. He was surprised
but ﬂattered. Sure, he said. The woman walked to the bar and
brought back two more drinks—one for her and one for him. He
thanked her and took a sip. And that was the last thing he remem-
bered.
    Rather, that was the last thing he remembered until he woke up,
disoriented, lying in a hotel bathtub, his body submerged in ice.
    He looked around frantically, trying to ﬁgure out where he was
and how he got there. Then he spotted the note:
    don’t move. call 911.
    A cell phone rested on a small table beside the bathtub. He
picked it up and called 911, his ﬁngers numb and clumsy from the
ice. The operator seemed oddly familiar with his situation. She said,
“Sir, I want you to reach behind you, slowly and carefully. Is there a
tube protruding from your lower back?”
4                           M A D E TO S T I C K

   Anxious, he felt around behind him. Sure enough, there was a
tube.
   The operator said, “Sir, don’t panic, but one of your kidneys has
been harvested. There’s a ring of organ thieves operating in this city,
and they got to you. Paramedics are on their way. Don’t move until
they arrive.”

     ou’ve just read one of the most successful urban legends of the
Y    past ﬁfteen years. The ﬁrst clue is the classic urban-legend open-
ing: “A friend of a friend . . .” Have you ever noticed that our friends’
friends have much more interesting lives than our friends them-
selves?
    You’ve probably heard the Kidney Heist tale before. There are
hundreds of versions in circulation, and all of them share a core of
three elements: (1) the drugged drink, (2) the ice-ﬁlled bathtub, and
(3) the kidney-theft punch line. One version features a married man
who receives the drugged drink from a prostitute he has invited to his
room in Las Vegas. It’s a morality play with kidneys.
    Imagine that you closed the book right now, took an hourlong
break, then called a friend and told the story, without rereading it.
Chances are you could tell it almost perfectly. You might forget that
the traveler was in Atlantic City for “an important meeting with
clients”—who cares about that? But you’d remember all the impor-
tant stuff.
    The Kidney Heist is a story that sticks. We understand it, we re-
member it, and we can retell it later. And if we believe it’s true, it
might change our behavior permanently—at least in terms of accept-
ing drinks from attractive strangers.
    Contrast the Kidney Heist story with this passage, drawn from a
paper distributed by a nonproﬁt organization. “Comprehensive com-
munity building naturally lends itself to a return-on-investment ra-
                            INTRODUCTION                                 5

tionale that can be modeled, drawing on existing practice,” it begins,
going on to argue that “[a] factor constraining the ﬂow of resources to
CCIs is that funders must often resort to targeting or categorical re-
quirements in grant making to ensure accountability.”
    Imagine that you closed the book right now and took an hourlong
break. In fact, don’t even take a break; just call up a friend and retell
that passage without rereading it. Good luck.
    Is this a fair comparison—an urban legend to a cherry-picked bad
passage? Of course not. But here’s where things get interesting: Think
of our two examples as two poles on a spectrum of memorability.
Which sounds closer to the communications you encounter at work?
If you’re like most people, your workplace gravitates toward the non-
proﬁt pole as though it were the North Star.
    Maybe this is perfectly natural; some ideas are inherently interesting
and some are inherently uninteresting. A gang of organ thieves—inher-
ently interesting! Nonproﬁt ﬁnancial strategy—inherently uninterest-
ing! It’s the nature versus nurture debate applied to ideas: Are ideas born
interesting or made interesting?
    Well, this is a nurture book.
    So how do we nurture our ideas so they’ll succeed in the world?
Many of us struggle with how to communicate ideas effectively, how
to get our ideas to make a difference. A biology teacher spends an
hour explaining mitosis, and a week later only three kids remember
what it is. A manager makes a speech unveiling a new strategy as the
staffers nod their heads enthusiastically, and the next day the front-
line employees are observed cheerfully implementing the old one.
    Good ideas often have a hard time succeeding in the world. Yet
the ridiculous Kidney Heist tale keeps circulating, with no resources
whatsoever to support it.
    Why? Is it simply because hijacked kidneys sell better than other
topics? Or is it possible to make a true, worthwhile idea circulate as ef-
fectively as this false idea?
6                          M A D E TO S T I C K

            The Truth About Movie Popcorn

Art Silverman stared at a bag of movie popcorn. It looked out of place
sitting on his desk. His ofﬁce had long since ﬁlled up with fake-butter
fumes. Silverman knew, because of his organization’s research, that
the popcorn on his desk was unhealthy. Shockingly unhealthy, in
fact. His job was to ﬁgure out a way to communicate this message to
the unsuspecting moviegoers of America.
     Silverman worked for the Center for Science in the Public Inter-
est (CSPI), a nonproﬁt group that educates the public about nutri-
tion. The CSPI sent bags of movie popcorn from a dozen theaters in
three major cities to a lab for nutritional analysis. The results sur-
prised everyone.
     The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) recom-
mends that a normal diet contain no more than 20 grams of saturated
fat each day. According to the lab results, the typical bag of popcorn
had 37 grams.
     The culprit was coconut oil, which theaters used to pop their pop-
corn. Coconut oil had some big advantages over other oils. It gave the
popcorn a nice, silky texture, and released a more pleasant and natu-
ral aroma than the alternative oils. Unfortunately, as the lab results
showed, coconut oil was also brimming with saturated fat.
     The single serving of popcorn on Silverman’s desk—a snack
someone might scarf down between meals—had nearly two days’
worth of saturated fat. And those 37 grams of saturated fat were
packed into a medium-sized serving of popcorn. No doubt a decent-
sized bucket could have cleared triple digits.
     The challenge, Silverman realized, was that few people know
what “37 grams of saturated fat” means. Most of us don’t memorize
the USDA’s daily nutrition recommendations. Is 37 grams good or
bad? And even if we have an intuition that it’s bad, we’d wonder if it
was “bad bad” (like cigarettes) or “normal bad” (like a cookie or a
milk shake).
                           INTRODUCTION                              7

    Even the phrase “37 grams of saturated fat” by itself was enough to
cause most people’s eyes to glaze over. “Saturated fat has zero ap-
peal,” Silverman says. “It’s dry, it’s academic, who cares?”
    Silverman could have created some kind of visual comparison—
perhaps an advertisement comparing the amount of saturated fat in
the popcorn with the USDA’s recommended daily allowance. Think
of a bar graph, with one of the bars stretching twice as high as the
other.
    But that was too scientiﬁc somehow. Too rational. The amount of
fat in this popcorn was, in some sense, not rational. It was ludicrous.
The CSPI needed a way to shape the message in a way that fully com-
municated this ludicrousness.
    Silverman came up with a solution.

      SPI called a press conference on September 27, 1992. Here’s
C     the message it presented: “A medium-sized ‘butter’ popcorn at a
typical neighborhood movie theater contains more artery-clogging fat
than a bacon-and-eggs breakfast, a Big Mac and fries for lunch, and a
steak dinner with all the trimmings—combined!”
    The folks at CSPI didn’t neglect the visuals—they laid out the full
buffet of greasy food for the television cameras. An entire day’s worth
of unhealthy eating, displayed on a table. All that saturated fat—
stuffed into a single bag of popcorn.
    The story was an immediate sensation, featured on CBS, NBC,
ABC, and CNN. It made the front pages of USA Today, the Los An-
geles Times, and The Washington Post’s Style section. Leno and Let-
terman cracked jokes about fat-soaked popcorn, and headline writers
trotted out some doozies: “Popcorn Gets an ‘R’ Rating,” “Lights, Ac-
tion, Cholesterol!” “Theater Popcorn is Double Feature of Fat.”
    The idea stuck. Moviegoers, repulsed by these ﬁndings, avoided
popcorn in droves. Sales plunged. The service staff at movie houses
grew accustomed to ﬁelding questions about whether the popcorn
8                          M A D E TO S T I C K

was popped in the “bad” oil. Soon after, most of the nation’s big-
gest theater chains—including United Artists, AMC, and Loews—
announced that they would stop using coconut oil.

                         On Stickiness

This is an idea success story. Even better, it’s a truthful idea success
story. The people at CSPI knew something about the world that they
needed to share. They ﬁgured out a way to communicate the idea so
that people would listen and care. And the idea stuck—just like the
Kidney Heist tale.
    And, let’s be honest, the odds were stacked against the CSPI. The
“movie popcorn is fatty” story lacks the lurid appeal of an organ-
thieving gang. No one woke up in an oil-ﬁlled bathtub. The story
wasn’t sensational, and it wasn’t even particularly entertaining. Fur-
thermore, there was no natural constituency for the news—few of us
make an effort to “stay up to date with popcorn news.” There were
no celebrities, models, or adorable pets involved.
    In short, the popcorn idea was a lot like the ideas that most of us
trafﬁc in every day—ideas that are interesting but not sensational,
truthful but not mind-blowing, important but not “life-or-death.” Un-
less you’re in advertising or public relations, you probably don’t have
many resources to back your ideas. You don’t have a multimillion-
dollar ad budget or a team of professional spinners. Your ideas need
to stand on their own merits.
    We wrote this book to help you make your ideas stick. By “stick,”
we mean that your ideas are understood and remembered, and have
a lasting impact—they change your audience’s opinions or behavior.
    At this point, it’s worth asking why you’d need to make your ideas
stick. After all, the vast majority of our daily communication doesn’t
require stickiness. “Pass the gravy” doesn’t have to be memorable.
When we tell our friends about our relationship problems, we’re not
trying to have a “lasting impact.”
                           INTRODUCTION                              9

     So not every idea is stick-worthy. When we ask people how often
they need to make an idea stick, they tell us that the need arises be-
tween once a month and once a week, twelve to ﬁfty-two times per
year. For managers, these are “big ideas” about new strategic direc-
tions and guidelines for behavior. Teachers try to convey themes and
conﬂicts and trends to their students—the kinds of themes and ways
of thinking that will endure long after the individual factoids have
faded. Columnists try to change readers’ opinions on policy issues.
Religious leaders try to share spiritual wisdom with their congregants.
Nonproﬁt organizations try to persuade volunteers to contribute their
time and donors to contribute their money to a worthy cause.
     Given the importance of making ideas stick, it’s surprising how
little attention is paid to the subject. When we get advice on commu-
nicating, it often concerns our delivery: “Stand up straight, make eye
contact, use appropriate hand gestures. Practice, practice, practice
(but don’t sound canned).” Sometimes we get advice about structure:
“Tell ’em what you’re going to tell ’em. Tell ’em, then tell ’em what
you told ’em.” Or “Start by getting their attention—tell a joke or a
story.”
     Another genre concerns knowing your audience: “Know what
your listeners care about, so you can tailor your communication to
them.” And, ﬁnally, there’s the most common refrain in the realm of
communication advice: Use repetition, repetition, repetition.
     All of this advice has obvious merit, except, perhaps, for the em-
phasis on repetition. (If you have to tell someone the same thing ten
times, the idea probably wasn’t very well designed. No urban legend
has to be repeated ten times.) But this set of advice has one glaring
shortcoming: It doesn’t help Art Silverman as he tries to ﬁgure out the
best way to explain that movie popcorn is really unhealthful.
     Silverman no doubt knows that he should make eye contact and
practice. But what message is he supposed to practice? He knows his
audience—they’re people who like popcorn and don’t realize how
unhealthy it is. So what message does he share with them? Compli-
10                         M A D E TO S T I C K

cating matters, Silverman knew that he wouldn’t have the luxury of
repetition—he had only one shot to make the media care about his
story.
    Or think about an elementary-school teacher. She knows her
goal: to teach the material mandated by the state curriculum com-
mittee. She knows her audience: third graders with a range of knowl-
edge and skills. She knows how to speak effectively—she’s a virtuoso
of posture and diction and eye contact. So the goal is clear, the audi-
ence is clear, and the format is clear. But the design of the message
itself is far from clear. The biology students need to understand mito-
sis—okay, now what? There are an inﬁnite number of ways to teach
mitosis. Which way will stick? And how do you know in advance?

                What Led to Made to Stick

The broad question, then, is how do you design an idea that sticks?
    A few years ago the two of us—brothers Chip and Dan—realized
that both of us had been studying how ideas stick for about ten years.
Our expertise came from very different ﬁelds, but we had zeroed in
on the same question: Why do some ideas succeed while others fail?
    Dan had developed a passion for education. He co-founded a
start-up publishing company called Thinkwell that asked a somewhat
heretical question: If you were going to build a textbook from scratch,
using video and technology instead of text, how would you do it? As
the editor in chief of Thinkwell, Dan had to work with his team to de-
termine the best ways to teach subjects like economics, biology, cal-
culus, and physics. He had an opportunity to work with some of the
most effective and best-loved professors in the country: the calculus
teacher who was also a stand-up comic; the biology teacher who was
named national Teacher of the Year; the economics teacher who was
also a chaplain and a playwright. Essentially, Dan enjoyed a crash
course in what makes great teachers great. And he found that, while
                           INTRODUCTION                              11

each teacher had a unique style, collectively their instructional
methodologies were almost identical.
    Chip, as a professor at Stanford University, had spent about ten
years asking why bad ideas sometimes won out in the social market-
place of ideas. How could a false idea displace a true one? And what
made some ideas more viral than others? As an entry point into these
topics, he dove into the realm of “naturally sticky” ideas such as
urban legends and conspiracy theories. Over the years, he’s become
uncomfortably familiar with some of the most repulsive and absurd
tales in the annals of ideas. He’s heard them all. Here’s a very small
sampler:

   • The Kentucky Fried Rat. Really, any tale that involves rats
     and fast food is on fertile ground.
   • Coca-Cola rots your bones. This fear is big in Japan, but so
     far the country hasn’t experienced an epidemic of gelati-
     nous teenagers.
   • If you ﬂash your brights at a car whose headlights are off,
     you will be shot by a gang member.
   • The Great Wall of China is the only man-made object that
     is visible from space. (The Wall is really long but not very
     wide. Think about it: If the Wall were visible, then any in-
     terstate highway would also be visible, and maybe a few
     Wal-Mart superstores as well.)
   • You use only 10 percent of your brain. (If this were true, it
     would certainly make brain damage a lot less worrisome.)

    Chip, along with his students, has spent hundreds of hours col-
lecting, coding, and analyzing naturally sticky ideas: urban legends,
wartime rumors, proverbs, conspiracy theories, and jokes. Urban leg-
ends are false, but many naturally sticky ideas are true. In fact, per-
haps the oldest class of naturally sticky ideas is the proverb—a nugget
12                         M A D E TO S T I C K

of wisdom that often endures over centuries and across cultures. As
an example, versions of the proverb “Where there’s smoke there’s
ﬁre” have appeared in more than ﬁfty-ﬁve different languages.
   In studying naturally sticky ideas, both trivial and profound, Chip
has conducted more than forty experiments with more than 1,700
participants on topics such as:

     • Why Nostradamus’s prophecies are still read after 400 years
     • Why Chicken Soup for the Soul stories are inspirational
     • Why ineffective folk remedies persist

A few years ago, he started teaching a course at Stanford called
“How to Make Ideas Stick.” The premise of the course was that if we
understood what made ideas naturally sticky we might be better at
making our own messages stick. During the past few years he has
taught this topic to a few hundred students bound for careers as
managers, public-policy analysts, journalists, designers, and ﬁlm di-
rectors.
   To complete the story of the Brothers Heath, in 2004 it dawned on
us that we had been approaching the same problem from different
angles. Chip had researched and taught what made ideas stick. Dan
had tried to ﬁgure out pragmatic ways to make ideas stick. Chip had
compared the success of different urban legends and stories. Dan had
compared the success of different math and government lessons.
Chip was the researcher and the teacher. Dan was the practitioner
and the writer. (And we knew that we could make our parents happy
by spending more quality time together.)
   We wanted to take apart sticky ideas—both natural and created—
and ﬁgure out what made them stick. What makes urban legends so
compelling? Why do some chemistry lessons work better than others?
Why does virtually every society circulate a set of proverbs? Why do
some political ideas circulate widely while others fall short?
   In short, we were looking to understand what sticks.We adopted
                            INTRODUCTION                               13

the “what sticks” terminology from one of our favorite authors, Mal-
colm Gladwell. In 2000, Gladwell wrote a brilliant book called The
Tipping Point, which examined the forces that cause social phenom-
ena to “tip,” or make the leap from small groups to big groups, the
way contagious diseases spread rapidly once they infect a certain crit-
ical mass of people. Why did Hush Puppies experience a rebirth?
Why did crime rates abruptly plummet in New York City? Why did
the book Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood catch on?
    The Tipping Point has three sections. The ﬁrst addresses the need
to get the right people, and the third addresses the need for the right
context. The middle section of the book, “The Stickiness Factor,” ar-
gues that innovations are more likely to tip when they’re sticky. When
The Tipping Point was published, Chip realized that “stickiness” was
the perfect word for the attribute that he was chasing with his re-
search into the marketplace of ideas.
    This book is a complement to The Tipping Point in the sense that
we will identify the traits that make ideas sticky, a subject that was be-
yond the scope of Gladwell’s book. Gladwell was interested in what
makes social epidemics epidemic. Our interest is in how effective
ideas are constructed—what makes some ideas stick and others dis-
appear. So, while our focus will veer away from The Tipping Point’s
turf, we want to pay tribute to Gladwell for the word “stickiness.” It
stuck.

                 Who Spoiled Halloween?

In the 1960s and 1970s, the tradition of Halloween trick-or-treating
came under attack. Rumors circulated about Halloween sadists who
put razor blades in apples and booby-trapped pieces of candy. The ru-
mors affected the Halloween tradition nationwide. Parents carefully
examined their children’s candy bags. Schools opened their doors at
night so that kids could trick-or-treat in a safe environment. Hospitals
volunteered to X-ray candy bags.
14                         M A D E TO S T I C K

    In 1985, an ABC News poll showed that 60 percent of parents
worried that their children might be victimized. To this day, many
parents warn their children not to eat any snacks that aren’t prepack-
aged. This is a sad story: a family holiday sullied by bad people who,
inexplicably, wish to harm children. But in 1985 the story took a
strange twist. Researchers discovered something shocking about the
candy-tampering epidemic: It was a myth.
    The researchers, sociologists Joel Best and Gerald Horiuchi, stud-
ied every reported Halloween incident since 1958. They found no in-
stances where strangers caused children life-threatening harm on
Halloween by tampering with their candy.
    Two children did die on Halloween, but their deaths weren’t
caused by strangers. A ﬁve-year-old boy found his uncle’s heroin stash
and overdosed. His relatives initially tried to cover their tracks by
sprinkling heroin on his candy. In another case, a father, hoping to
collect on an insurance settlement, caused the death of his own son
by contaminating his candy with cyanide.
    In other words, the best social science evidence reveals that taking
candy from strangers is perfectly okay. It’s your family you should
worry about.
    The candy-tampering story has changed the behavior of millions
of parents over the past thirty years. Sadly, it has made neighbors sus-
picious of neighbors. It has even changed the laws of this country:
Both California and New Jersey passed laws that carry special penal-
ties for candy-tamperers. Why was this idea so successful?

              Six Principles of Sticky Ideas

The Halloween-candy story is, in a sense, the evil twin of the CSPI
story.
    Both stories highlighted an unexpected danger in a common ac-
tivity: eating Halloween candy and eating movie popcorn. Both sto-
                           INTRODUCTION                               15

ries called for simple action: examining your child’s candy and avoid-
ing movie popcorn. Both made use of vivid, concrete images that
cling easily to memory: an apple with a buried razor blade and a table
full of greasy foods. And both stories tapped into emotion: fear in the
case of Halloween candy and disgust in the case of movie popcorn.
    The Kidney Heist, too, shares many of these traits. A highly unex-
pected outcome: a guy who stops for a drink and ends up one kidney
short of a pair. A lot of concrete details: the ice-ﬁlled bathtub, the
weird tube protruding from the lower back. Emotion: fear, disgust,
suspicion.
    We began to see the same themes, the same attributes, reﬂected
in a wide range of successful ideas. What we found based on Chip’s
research—and by reviewing the research of dozens of folklorists, psy-
chologists, educational researchers, political scientists, and proverb-
hunters—was that sticky ideas shared certain key traits. There is no
“formula” for a sticky idea—we don’t want to overstate the case. But
sticky ideas do draw from a common set of traits, which make them
more likely to succeed.
    It’s like discussing the attributes of a great basketball player. You
can be pretty sure that any great player has some subset of traits like
height, speed, agility, power, and court sense. But you don’t need all
of these traits in order to be great: Some great guards are ﬁve feet ten
and scrawny. And having all the traits doesn’t guarantee greatness: No
doubt there are plenty of slow, clumsy seven-footers. It’s clear,
though, that if you’re on the neighborhood court, choosing your team
from among strangers, you should probably take a gamble on the
seven-foot dude.
    Ideas work in much the same way. One skill we can learn is the
ability to spot ideas that have “natural talent,” like the seven-foot
stranger. Later in the book, we’ll discuss Subway’s advertising cam-
paign that focused on Jared, an obese college student who lost more
than 200 pounds by eating Subway sandwiches every day. The cam-
16                         M A D E TO S T I C K

paign was a huge success. And it wasn’t created by a Madison Avenue
advertising agency; it started with a single store owner who had the
good sense to spot an amazing story.
    But here’s where our basketball analogy breaks down: In the world
of ideas, we can genetically engineer our players. We can create ideas
with an eye to maximizing their stickiness.
    As we pored over hundreds of sticky ideas, we saw, over and over,
the same six principles at work.

PRINCIPLE 1: SIMPLICITY
How do we ﬁnd the essential core of our ideas? A successful defense
lawyer says, “If you argue ten points, even if each is a good point,
when they get back to the jury room they won’t remember any.” To
strip an idea down to its core, we must be masters of exclusion. We
must relentlessly prioritize. Saying something short is not the mis-
sion—sound bites are not the ideal. Proverbs are the ideal. We must
create ideas that are both simple and profound. The Golden Rule is
the ultimate model of simplicity: a one-sentence statement so pro-
found that an individual could spend a lifetime learning to follow it.

PRINCIPLE 2: UNEXPECTEDNESS
How do we get our audience to pay attention to our ideas, and how do
we maintain their interest when we need time to get the ideas across?
We need to violate people’s expectations. We need to be counterintu-
itive. A bag of popcorn is as unhealthy as a whole day’s worth of fatty
foods! We can use surprise—an emotion whose function is to in-
crease alertness and cause focus—to grab people’s attention. But sur-
prise doesn’t last. For our idea to endure, we must generate interest
and curiosity. How do you keep students engaged during the forty-
eighth history class of the year? We can engage people’s curiosity over
a long period of time by systematically “opening gaps” in their knowl-
edge—and then ﬁlling those gaps.
                           INTRODUCTION                             17

PRINCIPLE 3: CONCRETENESS
How do we make our ideas clear? We must explain our ideas in
terms of human actions, in terms of sensory information. This is
where so much business communication goes awry. Mission state-
ments, synergies, strategies, visions—they are often ambiguous to
the point of being meaningless. Naturally sticky ideas are full of con-
crete images—ice-ﬁlled bathtubs, apples with razors—because our
brains are wired to remember concrete data. In proverbs, abstract
truths are often encoded in concrete language: “A bird in hand is
worth two in the bush.” Speaking concretely is the only way to en-
sure that our idea will mean the same thing to everyone in our audi-
ence.

PRINCIPLE 4: CREDIBILITY
How do we make people believe our ideas? When the former sur-
geon general C. Everett Koop talks about a public-health issue, most
people accept his ideas without skepticism. But in most day-to-day
situations we don’t enjoy this authority. Sticky ideas have to carry
their own credentials. We need ways to help people test our ideas for
themselves—a “try before you buy” philosophy for the world of
ideas. When we’re trying to build a case for something, most of us in-
stinctively grasp for hard numbers. But in many cases this is exactly
the wrong approach. In the sole U.S. presidential debate in 1980 be-
tween Ronald Reagan and Jimmy Carter, Reagan could have cited
innumerable statistics demonstrating the sluggishness of the econ-
omy. Instead, he asked a simple question that allowed voters to test
for themselves: “Before you vote, ask yourself if you are better off
today than you were four years ago.”

PRINCIPLE 5: EMOTIONS
How do we get people to care about our ideas? We make them feel
something. In the case of movie popcorn, we make them feel dis-
18                          M A D E TO S T I C K

gusted by its unhealthiness. The statistic “37 grams” doesn’t elicit any
emotions. Research shows that people are more likely to make a char-
itable gift to a single needy individual than to an entire impoverished
region. We are wired to feel things for people, not for abstractions.
Sometimes the hard part is ﬁnding the right emotion to harness. For
instance, it’s difﬁcult to get teenagers to quit smoking by instilling in
them a fear of the consequences, but it’s easier to get them to quit by
tapping into their resentment of the duplicity of Big Tobacco.

PRINCIPLE 6: STORIES
How do we get people to act on our ideas? We tell stories. Fireﬁghters
naturally swap stories after every ﬁre, and by doing so they multiply
their experience; after years of hearing stories, they have a richer,
more complete mental catalog of critical situations they might con-
front during a ﬁre and the appropriate responses to those situations.
Research shows that mentally rehearsing a situation helps us perform
better when we encounter that situation in the physical environment.
Similarly, hearing stories acts as a kind of mental ﬂight simulator,
preparing us to respond more quickly and effectively.

    hose are the six principles of successful ideas. To summarize,
T   here’s our checklist for creating a successful idea: a Simple Un-
expected Concrete Credentialed Emotional Story. A clever observer
will note that this sentence can be compacted into the acronym
SUCCESs. This is sheer coincidence, of course. (Okay, we admit,
SUCCESs is a little corny. We could have changed “Simple” to “Core”
and reordered a few letters. But, you have to admit, CCUCES is less
memorable.)
   No special expertise is needed to apply these principles. There are
no licensed stickologists. Moreover, many of the principles have a
commonsense ring to them: Didn’t most of us already have the intu-
                           INTRODUCTION                               19

ition that we should “be simple” and “use stories”? It’s not as though
there’s a powerful constituency for overcomplicated, lifeless prose.
    But wait a minute. We claim that using these principles is easy.
And most of them do seem relatively commonsensical. So why aren’t
we deluged with brilliantly designed sticky ideas? Why is our life
ﬁlled with more process memos than proverbs?
    Sadly, there is a villain in our story. The villain is a natural psy-
chological tendency that consistently confounds our ability to create
ideas using these principles. It’s called the Curse of Knowledge. (We
will capitalize the phrase throughout the book to give it the drama we
think it deserves.)

                    Tappers and Listeners

In 1990, Elizabeth Newton earned a Ph.D. in psychology at Stanford
by studying a simple game in which she assigned people to one of two
roles: “tappers” or “listeners.” Tappers received a list of twenty-ﬁve
well-known songs, such as “Happy Birthday to You” and “The Star-
Spangled Banner.” Each tapper was asked to pick a song and tap out
the rhythm to a listener (by knocking on a table). The listener’s job
was to guess the song, based on the rhythm being tapped. (By the
way, this experiment is fun to try at home if there’s a good “listener”
candidate nearby.)
    The listener’s job in this game is quite difﬁcult. Over the course of
Newton’s experiment, 120 songs were tapped out. Listeners guessed
only 2.5 percent of the songs: 3 out of 120.
    But here’s what made the result worthy of a dissertation in psy-
chology. Before the listeners guessed the name of the song, Newton
asked the tappers to predict the odds that the listeners would guess
correctly. They predicted that the odds were 50 percent.
    The tappers got their message across 1 time in 40, but they
thought they were getting their message across 1 time in 2. Why?
20                          M A D E TO S T I C K

     When a tapper taps, she is hearing the song in her head. Go
ahead and try it for yourself—tap out “The Star-Spangled Banner.”
It’s impossible to avoid hearing the tune in your head. Meanwhile,
the listeners can’t hear that tune—all they can hear is a bunch of dis-
connected taps, like a kind of bizarre Morse Code.
     In the experiment, tappers are ﬂabbergasted at how hard the lis-
teners seem to be working to pick up the tune. Isn’t the song obvious?
The tappers’ expressions, when a listener guesses “Happy Birthday to
You” for “The Star-Spangled Banner,” are priceless: How could you
be so stupid?
     It’s hard to be a tapper. The problem is that tappers have been
given knowledge (the song title) that makes it impossible for them to
imagine what it’s like to lack that knowledge. When they’re tapping,
they can’t imagine what it’s like for the listeners to hear isolated taps
rather than a song. This is the Curse of Knowledge. Once we know
something, we ﬁnd it hard to imagine what it was like not to know it.
Our knowledge has “cursed” us. And it becomes difﬁcult for us to
share our knowledge with others, because we can’t readily re-create
our listeners’ state of mind.
     The tapper/listener experiment is reenacted every day across the
world. The tappers and listeners are CEOs and frontline employees,
teachers and students, politicians and voters, marketers and cus-
tomers, writers and readers. All of these groups rely on ongoing com-
munication, but, like the tappers and listeners, they suffer from
enormous information imbalances. When a CEO discusses “unlock-
ing shareholder value,” there is a tune playing in her head that the
employees can’t hear.
     It’s a hard problem to avoid—a CEO might have thirty years of
daily immersion in the logic and conventions of business. Reversing
the process is as impossible as un-ringing a bell. You can’t unlearn
what you already know. There are, in fact, only two ways to beat the
Curse of Knowledge reliably. The ﬁrst is not to learn anything. The
second is to take your ideas and transform them.
                             INTRODUCTION                                21

    This book will teach you how to transform your ideas to beat the
Curse of Knowledge. The six principles presented earlier are your
best weapons. They can be used as a kind of checklist. Let’s take the
CEO who announces to her staff that they must strive to “maximize
shareholder value.”
    Is this idea simple? Yes, in the sense that it’s short, but it lacks the
useful simplicity of a proverb. Is it unexpected? No. Concrete? Not at
all. Credible? Only in the sense that it’s coming from the mouth of
the CEO. Emotional? Um, no. A story? No.
    Contrast the “maximize shareholder value” idea with John F. Ken-
nedy’s famous 1961 call to “put a man on the moon and return him
safely by the end of the decade.” Simple? Yes. Unexpected? Yes. Con-
crete? Amazingly so. Credible? The goal seemed like science ﬁction,
but the source was credible. Emotional? Yes. Story? In miniature.
    Had John F. Kennedy been a CEO, he would have said, “Our
mission is to become the international leader in the space industry
through maximum team-centered innovation and strategically tar-
geted aerospace initiatives.” Fortunately, JFK was more intuitive than
a modern-day CEO; he knew that opaque, abstract missions don’t
captivate and inspire people. The moon mission was a classic case of
a communicator’s dodging the Curse of Knowledge. It was a brilliant
and beautiful idea—a single idea that motivated the actions of mil-
lions of people for a decade.

                     Systematic Creativity

Picture in your mind the type of person who’s great at coming up with
ideas. Have a mental image of the person? A lot of people, when
asked to do this, describe a familiar stereotype—the “creative genius,”
the kind of person who thinks up slogans in a hot advertising agency.
Maybe, like us, you picture someone with gelled hair and hip cloth-
ing, carrying a dog-eared notebook full of ironies and epiphanies,
ready to drop everything and launch a four-hour brainstorming ses-
22                          M A D E TO S T I C K

sion in a room full of caffeine and whiteboards. Or maybe your
stereotype isn’t quite so elaborate.
    There’s no question that some people are more creative than
others. Perhaps they’re just born that way. So maybe you’ll never be
the Michael Jordan of sticky ideas. But the premise of this book is that
creating sticky ideas is something that can be learned.
    In 1999, an Israeli research team assembled a group of 200
highly regarded ads—ads that were ﬁnalists and award winners in
the top advertising competitions. They found that 89 percent of the
award-winning ads could be classiﬁed into six basic categories, or
templates. That’s remarkable. We might expect great creative con-
cepts to be highly idiosyncratic—emerging from the whims of born
creative types. It turns out that six simple templates go a long way.
    Most of these templates relate to the principle of unexpectedness.
For example, the Extreme Consequences template points out unex-
pected consequences of a product attribute. One ad emphasizes the
power of a car stereo system—when the stereo belts out a tune, a
bridge starts oscillating to the music, and when the speakers are
cranked up the bridge shimmies so hard that it nearly collapses. This
same template also describes the famous World War II slogan de-
vised by the Ad Council, a nonproﬁt organization that creates public-
service campaigns for other nonproﬁts and government agencies:
“Loose Lips Sink Ships.” And speaking of extreme consequences,
let’s not forget the eggs sizzling in the 1980s commercial “This is your
brain on drugs” (also designed by the Ad Council). The template also
pops up spontaneously in naturally sticky ideas—for example, the
legend that Newton discovered gravity when an apple fell on his
head. (For the other templates, see the endnotes.)
    The researchers also tried to use their six templates to classify 200
other ads—from the same publications and for the same types of
products—that had not received awards. Amazingly, when the re-
searchers tried to classify these “less successful” ads, they could clas-
sify only 2 percent of them.
                           INTRODUCTION                               23

    The surprising lesson of this story: Highly creative ads are more
predictable than uncreative ones. It’s like Tolstoy’s quote: “All happy
families resemble each other, but each unhappy family is unhappy in
its own way.” All creative ads resemble one another, but each loser is
uncreative in its own way.
    But if creative ads consistently make use of the same basic set of
templates, perhaps “creativity” can be taught. Perhaps even novices—
with no creative experience—could produce better ideas if they un-
derstood the templates. The Israeli researchers, curious about the
ability to teach creativity, decided to see just how far a template could
take someone.
    They brought in three groups of novices and gave each group
some background information about three products: a shampoo, a
diet-food item, and a sneaker. One group received the background in-
formation on the products and immediately started generating ads,
with no training. An experienced creative director, who didn’t know
how the group had been trained, selected its top ﬁfteen ads. Then
those ads were tested by consumers. The group’s ads stood out: Con-
sumers rated them as “annoying.” (Could this be the long-awaited ex-
planation for the ads of local car dealerships?)
    A second group was trained for two hours by an experienced
creativity instructor who showed the participants how to use a free-
association brainstorming method. This technique is a standard
method for teaching creativity; it’s supposed to broaden associations,
spark unexpected connections, and get lots of creative ideas on the
table so that people can select the very best. If you’ve ever sat in a
class on brainstorming great ideas, this method is probably the one
you were taught.
    Again, the ﬁfteen best ads were selected by the same creative di-
rector, who didn’t know how the group had been trained, and the ads
were then tested by consumers. This group’s ads were rated as less an-
noying than those of the untrained group but no more creative.
    The ﬁnal group was trained for two hours on how to use the six
24                          M A D E TO S T I C K

creative templates. Once again, the ﬁfteen best ads were selected by
the creative director and tested with consumers. Suddenly these nov-
ices sprouted creativity. Their ads were rated as 50 percent more cre-
ative and produced a 55 percent more positive attitude toward the
products advertised. This is a stunning improvement for a two-hour
investment in learning a few basic templates! It appears that there are
indeed systematic ways to produce creative ideas.

        hat this Israeli research team did for advertisements is what
W       this book does for your ideas. We will give you suggestions for
tailoring your ideas in a way that makes them more creative and more
effective with your audience. We’ve created our checklist of six prin-
ciples for precisely this purpose.
    But isn’t the use of a template or a checklist conﬁning? Surely
we’re not arguing that a “color by numbers” approach will yield more
creative work than a blank-canvas approach?
    Actually, yes, that’s exactly what we’re saying. If you want to spread
your ideas to other people, you should work within the conﬁnes of
the rules that have allowed other ideas to succeed over time. You
want to invent new ideas, not new rules.
    This book can’t offer a foolproof recipe. We’ll admit it up front:
We won’t be able to show you how to get twelve-year-olds to gossip
about mitosis around the campﬁre. And in all likelihood your
process-improvement memo will not circulate decades from now as
a proverb in another culture.
    But we can promise you this: Regardless of your level of “natural
creativity,” we will show you how a little focused effort can make al-
most any idea stickier, and a sticky idea is an idea that is more likely
to make a difference. All you need to do is understand the six princi-
ples of powerful ideas.
                           C H A P T E R   1

                       SIMPLE

       very move an Army soldier makes is preceded by a staggering

E      amount of planning, which can be traced to an original order
       from the president of the United States. The president orders
the Joint Chiefs of Staff to accomplish an objective, and the Joint
Chiefs set the parameters of the operation. Then the orders and plans
begin to cascade downward—from generals to colonels to captains.
    The plans are quite thorough, specifying the “scheme of maneu-
ver” and the “concept of ﬁres”—what each unit will do, which equip-
ment it will use, how it will replace munitions, and so on. The orders
snowball until they accumulate enough speciﬁcity to guide the ac-
tions of individual foot soldiers at particular moments in time.
    The Army invests enormous energy in its planning, and its
processes have been reﬁned over many years. The system is a marvel
of communication. There’s just one drawback: The plans often turn
out to be useless.
    “The trite expression we always use is No plan survives contact
with the enemy,” says Colonel Tom Kolditz, the head of the behav-
ioral sciences division at West Point. “You may start off trying to ﬁght
your plan, but the enemy gets a vote. Unpredictable things happen—
the weather changes, a key asset is destroyed, the enemy responds in
26                         M A D E TO S T I C K

a way you don’t expect. Many armies fail because they put all their
emphasis into creating a plan that becomes useless ten minutes into
the battle.”
    The Army’s challenge is akin to writing instructions for a friend to
play chess on your behalf. You know a lot about the rules of the game,
and you may know a lot about your friend and the opponent. But if
you try to write move-by-move instructions you’ll fail. You can’t possi-
bly foresee more than a few moves. The ﬁrst time the opponent
makes a surprise move, your friend will have to throw out your care-
fully designed plans and rely on her instincts.
    Colonel Kolditz says, “Over time we’ve come to understand more
and more about what makes people successful in complex opera-
tions.” He believes that plans are useful, in the sense that they are
proof that planning has taken place. The planning process forces peo-
ple to think through the right issues. But as for the plans themselves,
Kolditz says, “They just don’t work on the battleﬁeld.” So, in the
1980s the Army adapted its planning process, inventing a concept
called Commander’s Intent (CI).
    CI is a crisp, plain-talk statement that appears at the top of every
order, specifying the plan’s goal, the desired end-state of an opera-
tion. At high levels of the Army, the CI may be relatively abstract:
“Break the will of the enemy in the Southeast region.” At the tactical
level, for colonels and captains, it is much more concrete: “My intent
is to have Third Battalion on Hill 4305, to have the hill cleared of
enemy, with only ineffective remnants remaining, so we can protect
the ﬂank of Third Brigade as they pass through the lines.”
    The CI never speciﬁes so much detail that it risks being rendered
obsolete by unpredictable events. “You can lose the ability to execute
the original plan, but you never lose the responsibility of executing
the intent,” says Kolditz. In other words, if there’s one soldier left
in the Third Battalion on Hill 4305, he’d better be doing something
to protect the ﬂank of the Third Brigade.
    Commander’s Intent manages to align the behavior of soldiers at
                                SIMPLE                               27

all levels without requiring play-by-play instructions from their lead-
ers. When people know the desired destination, they’re free to impro-
vise, as needed, in arriving there. Colonel Kolditz gives an example:
“Suppose I’m commanding an artillery battalion and I say, ‘We’re
going to pass this infantry unit through our lines forward.’ That means
something different to different groups. The mechanics know that
they’ll need lots of repair support along the roads, because if a tank
breaks down on a bridge the whole operation will come to a screech-
ing halt. The artillery knows they’ll need to ﬁre smoke or have engi-
neers generate smoke in the breech area where the infantry unit
moves forward, so it won’t get shot up as it passes through. As a com-
mander, I could spend a lot of time enumerating every speciﬁc task,
but as soon as people know what the intent is they begin generating
their own solutions.”
    The Combat Maneuver Training Center, the unit in charge of
military simulations, recommends that ofﬁcers arrive at the Com-
mander’s Intent by asking themselves two questions:

   If we do nothing else during tomorrow’s mission, we must
   _________________.

   The single, most important thing that we must do tomorrow is
   ________________.

No plan survives contact with the enemy. No doubt this principle has
resonance for people who have no military experience whatsoever.
No sales plan survives contact with the customer. No lesson plan sur-
vives contact with teenagers.
    It’s hard to make ideas stick in a noisy, unpredictable, chaotic en-
vironment. If we’re to succeed, the ﬁrst step is this: Be simple. Not
simple in terms of “dumbing down” or “sound bites.” You don’t have
to speak in monosyllables to be simple. What we mean by “simple” is
ﬁnding the core of the idea.
28                          M A D E TO S T I C K

    “Finding the core” means stripping an idea down to its most criti-
cal essence. To get to the core, we’ve got to weed out superﬂuous and
tangential elements. But that’s the easy part. The hard part is weeding
out ideas that may be really important but just aren’t the most impor-
tant idea. The Army’s Commander’s Intent forces its ofﬁcers to high-
light the most important goal of an operation. The value of the Intent
comes from its singularity. You can’t have ﬁve North Stars, you can’t
have ﬁve “most important goals,” and you can’t have ﬁve Comman-
der’s Intents. Finding the core is analogous to writing the Comman-
der’s Intent—it’s about discarding a lot of great insights in order to let
the most important insight shine.The French aviator and author An-
toine de Saint-Exupéry once offered a deﬁnition of engineering ele-
gance: “A designer knows he has achieved perfection not when there
is nothing left to add, but when there is nothing left to take away.” A
designer of simple ideas should aspire to the same goal: knowing how
much can be wrung out of an idea before it begins to lose its essence.
    In fact, we’ll follow our own advice and strip this book down to its
core. Here it is: There are two steps in making your ideas sticky—
Step 1 is to ﬁnd the core, and Step 2 is to translate the core using the
SUCCESs checklist. That’s it. We’ll spend the next half chapter on
Step 1, and the remainder of the book on Step 2. The ﬁrst step in un-
packing these ideas is to explore why Southwest Airlines deliberately
ignores the food preferences of its customers.

       Finding the Core at Southwest Airlines

It’s common knowledge that Southwest is a successful company, but
there is a shocking performance gap between Southwest and its com-
petitors. Although the airlines industry as a whole has only a passing
acquaintance with proﬁtability, Southwest has been consistently
proﬁtable for more than thirty years.
     The reasons for Southwest’s success could (and do) ﬁll up books,
but perhaps the single greatest factor in the company’s success is its
                                 SIMPLE                                 29

dogged focus on reducing costs. Every airline would like to reduce
costs, but Southwest has been doing it for decades. For this effort to
succeed, the company must coordinate thousands of employees,
ranging from marketers to baggage handlers.
    Southwest has a Commander’s Intent, a core, that helps to guide
this coordination. As related by James Carville and Paul Begala:

   Herb Kelleher [the longest-serving CEO of Southwest] once told
   someone, “I can teach you the secret to running this airline in
   thirty seconds. This is it: We are THE low-fare airline. Once you
   understand that fact, you can make any decision about this com-
   pany’s future as well as I can.
       “Here’s an example,” he said. “Tracy from marketing comes
   into your ofﬁce. She says her surveys indicate that the passengers
   might enjoy a light entrée on the Houston to Las Vegas ﬂight. All
   we offer is peanuts, and she thinks a nice chicken Caesar salad
   would be popular. What do you say?”
       The person stammered for a moment, so Kelleher responded:
   “You say, ‘Tracy, will adding that chicken Caesar salad make us
   THE low-fare airline from Houston to Las Vegas? Because if it
   doesn’t help us become the unchallenged low-fare airline, we’re
   not serving any damn chicken salad.’ ”

    Kelleher’s Commander’s Intent is “We are THE low-fare airline.”
This is a simple idea, but it is sufﬁciently useful that it has guided the
actions of Southwest’s employees for more than thirty years.
    Now, this core idea—“THE low-fare airline”—isn’t the whole
story, of course. For instance, in 1996 Southwest received 124,000 ap-
plications for 5,444 openings. It’s known as a great place to work,
which is surprising. It’s not supposed to be fun to work for penny-
pinchers. It’s hard to imagine Wal-Mart employees giggling their way
through the workday.
    Yet somehow Southwest has pulled it off. Let’s think about the
30                          M A D E TO S T I C K

ideas driving Southwest Airlines as concentric circles. The central
circle, the core, is “THE low-fare airline.” But the very next circle
might be “Have fun at work.” Southwest’s employees know that it’s
okay to have fun so long as it doesn’t jeopardize the company’s status
as THE low-fare airline. A new employee can easily put these ideas
together to realize how to act in unscripted situations. For instance, is
it all right to joke about a ﬂight attendant’s birthday over the P.A.?
Sure. Is it equally okay to throw confetti in her honor? Probably not—
the confetti would create extra work for cleanup crews, and extra
clean-up time means higher fares. It’s the lighthearted business
equivalent of the foot soldier who improvises based on the Comman-
der’s Intent. A well-thought-out simple idea can be amazingly power-
ful in shaping behavior.
    A warning: In the future, months after you’ve put down this book,
you’re going to recall the word “Simple” as an element of the SUC-
CESs checklist. And your mental thesaurus will faithfully go digging
for the meaning of “Simple,” and it’s going to come back with associ-
ations like dumbing down, shooting for the lowest common denomi-
nator, making things easy, and so on. At that moment, you’ve got to
remind your thesaurus of the examples we’ve explored. “THE low-
fare airline” and the other stories in this chapter aren’t simple be-
cause they’re full of easy words. They’re simple because they reﬂect
the Commander’s Intent. It’s about elegance and prioritization, not
dumbing down.

                       Burying the Lead

News reporters are taught to start their stories with the most impor-
tant information. The ﬁrst sentence, called the lead, contains the
most essential elements of the story. A good lead can convey a lot of
information, as in these two leads from articles that won awards from
the American Society of Newspaper Editors:
                               SIMPLE                                  31

   A healthy 17-year-old heart pumped the gift of life through 34-
   year-old Bruce Murray Friday, following a four-hour transplant
   operation that doctors said went without a hitch.

   jerusalem, Nov. 4—A right-wing Jewish extremist shot and killed
   Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin tonight as he departed a peace rally
   attended by more than 100,000 in Tel Aviv, throwing Israel’s gov-
   ernment and the Middle East peace process into turmoil.

    After the lead, information is presented in decreasing order of im-
portance. Journalists call this the “inverted pyramid” structure—the
most important info (the widest part of the pyramid) is at the top.
    The inverted pyramid is great for readers. No matter what the
reader’s attention span—whether she reads only the lead or the entire
story—the inverted pyramid maximizes the information she gleans.
Think of the alternative: If news stories were written like mysteries,
with a dramatic payoff at the end, then readers who broke off in mid-
story would miss the point. Imagine waiting until the last sentence of
a story to ﬁnd out who won the presidential election or the Super
Bowl.
    The inverted pyramid also allows newspapers to get out the door
on time. Suppose a late-breaking story forces editors to steal space
from other stories. Without the inverted pyramid, they’d be forced to
do a slow, careful editing job on all the other articles, trimming a
word here or a phrase there. With the inverted pyramid structure,
they simply lop off paragraphs from the bottom of the other articles,
knowing that those paragraphs are (by construction) the least impor-
tant.
    According to one account, perhaps apocryphal, the inverted pyra-
mid arose during the Civil War. All the reporters wanted to use mili-
tary telegraphs to transmit their stories back home, but they could be
cut off at any moment; they might be bumped by military personnel,
32                          M A D E TO S T I C K

or the communication line might be lost completely—a common oc-
currence during battles. The reporters never knew how much time
they would get to send a story, so they had to send the most important
information ﬁrst.
    Journalists obsess about their leads. Don Wycliff, a winner of
prizes for editorial writing, says, “I’ve always been a believer that if
I’ve got two hours in which to write a story, the best investment I can
make is to spend the ﬁrst hour and forty-ﬁve minutes of it getting a
good lead, because after that everything will come easily.”
    So if ﬁnding a good lead makes everything else easy, why would a
journalist ever fail to come up with one? A common mistake re-
porters make is that they get so steeped in the details that they fail to
see the message’s core—what readers will ﬁnd important or interest-
ing. The longtime newspaper writer Ed Cray, a professor of commu-
nications at the University of Southern California, has spent almost
thirty years teaching journalism. He says, “The longer you work on a
story, the more you can ﬁnd yourself losing direction. No detail is too
small. You just don’t know what your story is anymore.”
    This problem of losing direction, of missing the central story, is so
common that journalists have given it its own name: Burying the
lead. “Burying the lead” occurs when the journalist lets the most im-
portant element of the story slip too far down in the story structure.
    The process of writing a lead—and avoiding the temptation to
bury it—is a helpful metaphor for the process of ﬁnding the core.
Finding the core and writing the lead both involve forced prioritiza-
tion. Suppose you’re a wartime reporter and you can telegraph only
one thing before the line gets cut, what would it be? There’s only one
lead, and there’s only one core. You must choose.
    Forced prioritization is really painful. Smart people recognize the
value of all the material. They see nuance, multiple perspectives—
and because they fully appreciate the complexities of a situation,
they’re often tempted to linger there. This tendency to gravitate
                               SIMPLE                               33

toward complexity is perpetually at war with the need to prioritize.
This difﬁcult quest—the need to wrestle priorities out of complexity—
was exactly the situation that James Carville faced in the Clinton cam-
paign of 1992.

                “If You Say Three Things,
                You Don’t Say Anything.”

A political campaign is a breeding ground of decision angst. If you
think your organization has problems, imagine this challenge: You
must build a nationwide organization from scratch, using primarily
unpaid and largely unskilled workers. You’ve got about a year to pull
the team together and line up an endless supply of doughnuts. Every-
one in the organization needs to sing from the same hymnal, but you
don’t have much time to rehearse the choir. And the media prod you
to sing a new song every day. To make matters worse, you must con-
stantly contend with opponents who will seize on every errant word.
    Bill Clinton’s 1992 campaign was a classic example of sticky ideas
at work in a difﬁcult environment. Not only did the campaign have
the normal set of complexities, Clinton himself added a few new
wrinkles. First, there were the “bimbo eruptions,” which need not be
reexamined here. Second, Clinton was a policy wonk by nature,
which meant that he was inclined to pontiﬁcate on virtually every
issue that he was asked about, instead of staying focused on a few key
principles.
    As his key political adviser, James Carville had to cope with this
complexity. One day, struggling to maintain his focus, he wrote three
phrases on a whiteboard for all the campaign workers to see. One of
the phrases on the impromptu list was “It’s the economy, stupid.”
This message would become the core of Clinton’s successful cam-
paign.
    The word “stupid” was added as a taunt to the campaign workers
34                          M A D E TO S T I C K

themselves, reminding them not to lose focus on what was important.
“It was simple and it was self-effacing,” Carville explained. “I was try-
ing to say, ‘Let’s don’t be too clever here, don’t come down here
thinking we’re too smart. Let’s just remember the basics.’ ”
    The need for focus extended to Bill Clinton himself, perhaps es-
pecially to Clinton himself. At one point, Clinton was frustrated that
he’d been advised to stop talking about balanced budgets despite the
fact that Ross Perot, the third-party candidate for president in 1992,
was getting positive attention for his stand on the balanced budget.
Clinton said, “I’ve been talking about these things for two years, why
should I stop talking about them now because Perot is in?” Clinton’s
advisers had to tell him, “There has to be message triage. If you say
three things, you don’t say anything.”
    “It’s the economy, stupid” was the lead of the Clinton story—and
it was a good one, because in 1992 the U.S. economy was mired in a
recession. But if “It’s the economy, stupid” is the lead, then the need
for a balanced budget can’t also be the lead. Carville had to stop
Clinton from burying the lead.

                      Decision Paralysis

Why is prioritizing so difﬁcult? In the abstract, it doesn’t sound so
tough. You prioritize important goals over less important goals. You
prioritize goals that are “critical” ahead of goals that are “beneﬁcial.”
    But what if we can’t tell what’s “critical” and what’s “beneﬁcial”?
Sometimes it’s not obvious. We often have to make decisions between
one “unknown” and another. This kind of complexity can be paralyz-
ing. In fact, psychologists have found that people can be driven to ir-
rational decisions by too much complexity and uncertainty.
    In 1954, the economist L. J. Savage described what he perceived
as a basic rule of human decision-making. He called it the “sure-
thing principle.” He illustrated it with this example: A businessman is
                                SIMPLE                                35

thinking about buying a piece of property. There’s an election com-
ing up soon, and he initially thinks that its outcome could be relevant
to the attractiveness of the purchase. So, to clarify his decision, he
thinks through both scenarios. If the Republican wins, he decides,
he’ll buy. If the Democrat wins, he’ll do the same. Seeing that he’d
buy in either scenario, he goes forward with the purchase, despite not
knowing the outcome. This decision seems sensible—not many peo-
ple would quibble with Savage’s logic.
    Two psychologists quibbled. Amos Tversky and Eldar Shaﬁr later
published a paper proving that the “sure-thing principle” wasn’t
always a sure thing. They uncovered situations where the mere exis-
tence of uncertainty seemed to alter how people made decisions—
even when the uncertainty was irrelevant to the outcome, as with
the businessman’s purchase. For instance, imagine that you’re in
college and you’ve just completed an important ﬁnal exam a couple
of weeks before the Christmas holidays. You’d been studying for this
exam for weeks, because it’s in a subject that’s important to your fu-
ture career.
    You’ve got to wait two days to get the exam results back. Mean-
while, you see an opportunity to purchase a vacation during the holi-
days to Hawaii at a bargain-basement price. Here are your three
options: You can buy the vacation today, pass on it today, or pay a ﬁve-
dollar fee to lock in the price for two days, which would allow you to
make your decision after you got your grade. What would you do?
    You may feel some desire to know the outcome of your exam before
you decide, as did the students who faced this choice in the original ex-
periment. So Tversky and Shaﬁr simply removed this uncertainty for
two groups of participants. These groups were told up front how they
did on the exam. Some students were told that they passed the exam,
and 57 percent of them chose to go on the trip (after all, it makes for a
good celebration). Other students were told that they failed the exam,
and 54 percent of them chose to go on the trip (after all, it makes for
36                          M A D E TO S T I C K

good recuperation). Both those who passed and those who failed
wanted to go to Hawaii, pronto.
    Here’s the twist: The group of students who, like you, didn’t know
their ﬁnal exam results behaved completely differently. The majority
of them (61 percent) paid ﬁve dollars to wait for two days. Think about
that! If you pass, you want to go to Hawaii. If you fail, you want to go to
Hawaii. If you don’t know whether you passed or failed, you . . . wait
and see? This is not the way the “sure-thing principle” is supposed to
behave. It’s as if our businessman had decided to wait until after the
election to buy his property, despite being willing to make the pur-
chase regardless of the outcome.
    Tversky and Shaﬁr’s study shows us that uncertainty—even irrele-
vant uncertainty—can paralyze us. Another study, conducted by
Shaﬁr and a colleague, Donald Redelmeier, demonstrates that paral-
ysis can also be caused by choice. Imagine, for example, that you are
in college and you face the following choice one evening. What
would you do?

     1. Attend a lecture by an author you admire who is visiting just
        for the evening, or
     2. Go to the library and study.

   Studying doesn’t look so attractive compared with a once in a life-
time lecture. When this choice was given to actual college students,
only 21 percent decided to study.
   Suppose, instead, you had been given three choices:

     1. Attend the lecture.
     2. Go to the library and study.
     3. Watch a foreign ﬁlm that you’ve been wanting to see.

   Does your answer differ? Remarkably, when a different group of
students were given the three choices, 40 percent decided to study—
                                 SIMPLE                                 37

double the number who did before. Giving students two good alter-
natives to studying, rather than one, paradoxically makes them less
likely to choose either. This behavior isn’t “rational,” but it is human.
    Prioritization rescues people from the quicksand of decision
angst, and that’s why ﬁnding the core is so valuable. The people who
listen to us will be constantly making decisions in an environment of
uncertainty. They will suffer anxiety from the need to choose—even
when the choice is between two good options, like the lecture and
the foreign ﬁlm.
    Core messages help people avoid bad choices by reminding them
of what’s important. In Herb Kelleher’s parable, for instance, some-
one had to choose between chicken salad and no chicken salad—and
the message “THE low-fare airline” led her to abandon the chicken
salad.

                            Idea Clinics

The goal of this book is to help you make your ideas stick. So, period-
ically throughout the book, we will present “Idea Clinics,” which il-
lustrate, in practical terms, how an idea can be made stickier. The
Clinics were inspired by the classic “before and after” photos used by
weight-loss centers—visible evidence that the diet works. Like patients
trying a new diet, the initial ideas in the Clinics vary in their need for
change; some need dramatic help, like a stomach-stapling and lipo-
suction, and some only need to lose a few pounds around the waist-
line.
    The point of the Clinics is not to wow you with our creative ge-
nius, and it’s fortunate for readers and authors alike that this is not the
goal, because we are not creative geniuses. The point is simply to
model the process of making ideas stickier. In contrast to traditional
disclaimers, this is something you should try at home. Think about
each message and consider how you would improve it using the prin-
ciples in the book.
38                            M A D E TO S T I C K

   You can safely skip the Clinics—they are intended as sidebars to
the text, rather than as building blocks—but we hope you’ll ﬁnd
them useful.

                                C L I N I C

           Warning: Sun Exposure Is Dangerous

     THE SITUATION: Health educators at Ohio State University want to in-

     form the academic community about the risks of sun exposure.

                                   • • •
     MESSAGE 1: Here’s a Web page with facts about sun exposure from

     Ohio State University. We’ve added numbers to each paragraph so
     that we can analyze the message later:

             Sun Exposure: Precautions and Protection

     (1) A golden, bronze tan is often considered a status symbol. Per-
     haps this supports the idea that people who have time to lie in the
     sun long enough to develop a deep tan, or who can travel to warm
     climates during winter, have more money or leisure time than “com-
     mon folk.” Nevertheless, the goal of many is a deep tan early in
     spring or to return from vacation with that hearty, healthy glow.
     Whether a tan suggests status or not, careless exposure to the sun
     can be harmful. Ultraviolet rays from the sun will damage skin but
     can also create vision problems, allergic reactions, and depressed
     immune systems.
                                 SIMPLE                                       39

   (2) Tanning and burning are caused by ultraviolet rays from the
sun. These rays cannot be seen or felt, but penetrate the skin and
stimulate cells containing a brownish pigment called melanin.
Melanin protects the skin by absorbing and scattering ultraviolet rays.
People with dark skins have high amounts of melanin, have greater
natural protection from ultraviolet rays, and tan more easily. Blondes,
redheads, and people with fair skins have less melanin and, there-
fore, burn more quickly.
   (3) As melanin is stimulated by ultraviolet rays, it rises to the skin’s
surface as a tan and provides protection against future sun exposure.
Individuals with dark skins such as olive, brown, or black are not im-
mune to burning and skin damage caused by careless exposure to
the sun.
   (4) Two types of ultraviolet rays (UV) from the sun exist: UVA and
UVB. UVB cause burning of the skin or the red associated with sun-
burn, skin cancer, and premature aging of skin. UVA rays stimulate
tanning but are also linked to other problems such as impaired vi-
sion, skin rashes, and allergic or other reactions to drugs.
   (5) Skin damage from overexposure to the sun is cumulative over
the years and cannot be reversed. Once damage occurs, it cannot be
undone. Most serious and lasting damage occurs before age 18.
Protection should start early, particularly with children who enjoy out-
door play on sunny days.

Before you read our comments below, go back and reread Message 1.
What can you do to improve it?

COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 1: What’s the lead here? What’s the core?

The ﬁrst paragraph dives into tanned skin as a status symbol, which
is simply an interesting red herring. (In fact, the text acknowledges as
40                             M A D E TO S T I C K

     much when it says, “Whether a tan suggests status or not . . .”) To us,
     Paragraph 5 ﬂashes in neon lights as the core: Skin damage . . . is cu-
     mulative over the years and cannot be reversed. Wow. Isn’t that the
     single most important thing we’d want to tell sun-worshippers? By
     contrast, Paragraphs 2–4 provide superﬂuous mechanics. As an
     analogy, do smokers really need to understand the workings of the
     lungs in order to appreciate the dangers of smoking?

                                    • • •
     MESSAGE 2: In the text below, we have reordered the points and tin-

     kered with the prose a bit in the hope of unburying the lead.

             Sun Exposure: How to Get Old Prematurely

     (5) Skin damage from overexposure to the sun is like getting older: It
     is cumulative over the years and cannot be reversed. Once damage
     occurs, it cannot be undone. Most serious and lasting damage occurs
     before age 18. Fortunately, unlike aging, skin damage can be pre-
     vented. Sun protection should start early, particularly with children
     who enjoy playing outdoors on sunny days.
         (2, 3, 4) Tanning and burning are caused by ultraviolet rays from
     the sun. Ultraviolet rays cause sunburn, which is a temporary sign of
     deeper underlying skin damage. Sunburns eventually disappear, but
     the underlying damage persists and may eventually cause premature
     aging or skin cancer.
         (1) Ironically, a golden, bronze tan is often considered a sign of
     good health. But ultraviolet rays not only damage skin, they can also
     create vision problems, allergic reactions, and depressed immune
     systems. So instead of a “healthy tan,” perhaps we should call it a
     “sickly tan.”
                                 SIMPLE                                       41

COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 2: The core of this message is that skin dam-

age is cumulative and irreversible. So we’ve rewritten the message to
stress that point and eliminate nonessential information. We’ve done
this to illustrate the process of forced prioritization; we’ve had to elim-
inate some interesting stuff (such as the references to melanin) in
order to let the core shine through.
    We’ve tried to emphasize the core in a couple of ways. First,
we’ve unburied the lead—putting the core right up front. Second,
we’ve added the analogy to aging to hammer home the idea that
damage is irreversible. Third, we’ve added a concrete and perhaps
unexpected image: Sunburns are a signal of damage; they may dis-
appear, but the underlying damage does not.

                           S C O R E C A R D

           Checklist            Message 1           Message 2
           Simple                    -                   
           Unexpected                -                   
           Concrete                  -                   
           Credible                  -                   -
           Emotional                 -                   -
           Story                     -                   -

PUNCH LINE : Avoid burying the lead. Don’t start with something inter-

esting but irrelevant in hopes of entertaining the audience. Instead,
work to make the core message itself more interesting.
42                         M A D E TO S T I C K

              Names, Names, and Names

Dunn, North Carolina, is a small town about forty miles south of
Raleigh. It has 14,000 residents and its workforce is primarily blue
collar. The local diner is packed in the morning with people eating
big breakfasts and drinking coffee. Waitresses call you “hon.” The
town recently got a Wal-Mart.
    All in all, Dunn is a pretty normal place, except for one fact: Al-
most everyone there reads the local paper, the Daily Record. As a
matter of fact, more than everyone in Dunn reads the paper.
    The Daily Record’s penetration in the Dunn community is 112
percent, which is the highest penetration of any newspaper in the
country. For a community penetration to exceed 100 percent, one of
two things must be true: (1) People from outside Dunn—perhaps
people commuting to jobs in Dunn—are buying the paper; or (2)
some households are buying more than one paper. Maybe it’s hard
for some couples in Dunn to share.
    What’s the explanation for this remarkable success? The people of
Dunn certainly have plenty of options for their news: USA Today, the
Raleigh News & Observer, CNN, the Internet, and hundreds of other
outlets. So why is the Daily Record so popular?

    he Dunn Daily Record was founded in 1950 by Hoover Adams.
T   Adams was born with ink in his blood. He got his ﬁrst byline by
sending dispatches from his Boy Scout camp. By the time he was in
high school he was serving as a stringer—a freelance reporter—for
the Raleigh paper. After World War II, Adams became the editor of
the Dunn Dispatch. Eventually, he grew restless at the Dispatch and
decided to start his own paper, the Daily Record. In 1978, after
twenty-eight years of head-to-head competition, the Dispatch ﬁnally
gave up and sold out to him.
                                SIMPLE                               43

    Across the ﬁfty-ﬁve years of his tenure as publisher, Adams has had
a remarkably consistent editorial philosophy. He believes that news-
papers should be relentlessly local in their coverage. In fact, he’s a
zealot about community coverage.
    In 1978, frustrated by what he felt was insufﬁcient focus on local
issues in the paper, he wrote a memo to his staff, explaining his views:
    “All of us know that the main reason anybody reads a local news-
paper is for local names and pictures. That’s the one thing we can do
better than anybody else. And that’s the thing our readers can’t get
anywhere else. Always remember, the mayor of Angier and the mayor
of Lillington are just as important to those towns as the mayor of New
York is to his people.”
    Let’s be clear: Adams’s focus on local coverage is not a revolution-
ary sentiment. In fact, among publishers of small newspapers it
would be utterly uncontroversial. Yet it’s easy enough to see that the
idea has not become a reality at most papers. The average local news-
paper is loaded with wire stories, analyses of pro sports teams, and
spot photos with nary a person in sight.
    In other words, ﬁnding the core isn’t synonymous with communi-
cating the core. Top management can know what the priorities are but
be completely ineffective in sharing and achieving those priorities.
Adams has managed to ﬁnd and share the core. How did he do it?

                       Sharing the Core

Adams found the core of his newspaper operations: local focus. Then
he turned his attention to sharing his core message—making it stick
with his staff. For the rest of the chapter—in fact, the rest of the
book—we will discuss ways to get core messages to stick. And we will
start by studying the way Adams has made his “local focus” message
stick.
    While many publishers pay lip service to the value of local focus,
44                           M A D E TO S T I C K

Adams is an extremist about it. He’s willing to hurt the bottom line for
local focus:

     The fact is, a local newspaper can never get enough local names.
     I’d happily hire two more typesetters and add two more pages in
     every edition of each paper if we had the names to ﬁll them up.

He’s willing to be boring for local focus:

     I’ll bet that if the Daily Record reprinted the entire Dunn tele-
     phone directory tonight, half the people would sit down and
     check it to be sure their name was included. . . . When somebody
     tells you, “Aw, you don’t want all those names,” please assure
     them that’s exactly what we want, most of all!

He gleefully exaggerates in order to emphasize the value of local
focus, quoting a saying of a friend, Ralph Delano, who runs the local
paper in Benson:

     If an atomic bomb fell on Raleigh, it wouldn’t be news in Benson
     unless some of the debris and ashes fell on Benson.

In fact, asked why the Daily Record has been so successful, Adams
replies, “It’s because of three things: Names, names, and names.”
   What’s going on here? Adams has found the core idea that he
wants to communicate—that local focus is the key to his newspaper’s
success. That’s Step 1. Step 2 is to communicate the core to others.
And he does that brilliantly.
   Look at the techniques Adams uses to communicate his serious-
ness about local focus. He uses an analogy: comparing the mayor of
Angier to the mayor of New York. (We’ll have more to say about anal-
ogy later in this chapter.) He says he’d hire more typesetters if the re-
                               SIMPLE                               45

porters could generate enough names. This is forced prioritization:
Local focus is more important than minimizing costs! (Not a com-
mon sentiment among small-town papers. See the “Unexpected”
chapter.)
    He also speaks in clear, tangible language. What does he want?
Names. He wants lots of individual names in the newspaper every
day. (See the “Concrete” chapter.) This idea is concrete enough that
everyone in the organization can comprehend and use it. Is there any
room for misunderstanding? Is there a staffer who won’t understand
what Adams means by “names”?
    “Names, names, and names” is a simple statement that is sym-
bolic of a core truth. It’s not just that names are helpful. In Adams’s
mind, names trump costs. Names trump well-written prose. Names
trump nuclear explosions in neighboring communities.
    For ﬁfty-ﬁve years, since Adams founded the paper, his core value
of community focus has helped hundreds of people at the paper, in
thousands of circumstances, make good decisions. As a publisher,
Adams has presided over close to 20,000 issues. And each of those is-
sues involved countless decisions: Which stories do we cover? What’s
important in the stories? Which photos do we run? Which do we cut
out to save space?
    Adams can’t possibly be personally involved in the vast majority of
these hundreds of small decisions. But his employees don’t suffer
from decision paralysis, because Adams’s Commander’s Intent is
clear: “Names, names, and names.” Adams can’t be everywhere. But
by ﬁnding the core and communicating it clearly, he has made him-
self everywhere. That’s the power of a sticky idea.

               Simple = Core + Compact

Adams is a clever wordsmith, but his most useful bit of wordplay is
probably his least clever: “Names, names, and names.” This phrase is
46                         M A D E TO S T I C K

useful and memorable because it is highly concrete, but also because
it is highly succinct. This example illustrates a second aspect of sim-
plicity: Simple messages are core and compact.
     At one level, the idea of compactness is uncontroversial. Rarely
will you get advice to make your communications lengthy and con-
voluted, unless you write interest-rate disclosures for a credit card
company. We know that sentences are better than paragraphs. Two
bullet points are better than ﬁve. Easy words are better than hard
words. It’s a bandwidth issue: The more we reduce the amount of in-
formation in an idea, the stickier it will be.
     But let’s be clear: Compactness alone isn’t enough. We could
latch on to a compact message that isn’t core; in other words, a pithy
slogan that doesn’t reﬂect our Commander’s Intent. Compact mes-
sages may be sticky, but that says nothing about their worth. We can
imagine compact messages that are lies (“The earth is ﬂat”), compact
messages that are irrelevant (“Goats like sprouts”), and compact mes-
sages that are ill-advised (“Never let a day pass without a shoe pur-
chase”).
     In other cases, compactness itself can come to seem an unworthy
goal. Lots of us have expertise in particular areas. Becoming an expert
in something means that we become more and more fascinated by nu-
ance and complexity. That’s when the Curse of Knowledge kicks in,
and we start to forget what it’s like not to know what we know. At that
point, making something simple can seem like “dumbing down.” As
an expert, we don’t want to be accused of propagating sound bites or
pandering to the lowest common denominator. Simplifying, we fear,
can devolve into oversimplifying.
     So if we’re going to deﬁne “simple” as core and compact, we need
to assure ourselves that compactness is worth striving for. We’ve al-
ready got core, why do we need compact? Aren’t “stripped-down”
ideas inherently less useful than fully elaborated ideas? Suppose we
took compactness to its most extreme form. Is it possible to say some-
thing meaningful in the span of a sound bite?
                                  SIMPLE                                 47

                     “A Bird in the Hand”

For thousands of years, people have exchanged sound bites called
proverbs. Proverbs are simple yet profound. Cervantes deﬁned prov-
erbs as “short sentences drawn from long experience.” Take the En-
glish-language proverb: “A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.”
What’s the core? The core is a warning against giving up a sure thing
for something speculative. The proverb is short and simple, yet it
packs a big nugget of wisdom that is useful in many situations.
    As it turns out, this is not just an English-language proverb. In
Sweden, the saying is “Rather one bird in the hand than ten in the
woods.” In Spain: “A bird in the hand is better than a hundred ﬂying
birds.” In Poland: “A sparrow in your hand is better than a pigeon on
the roof.” In Russia: “Better a titmouse in the hand than a crane in
the sky.”
    Other variants can be found in Romanian, Italian, Portuguese,
German, Icelandic, and even medieval Latin. The ﬁrst documented
case in English is from John Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress in 1678. But
the proverb may be much older still. In one of Aesop’s fables, a hawk
seizes a nightingale, who pleads for its life, arguing that it is too tiny a
morsel to satisfy the hawk. The hawk replies, “I would be foolish to re-
lease the bird I have in my hand to pursue another bird that is not
even in sight.” This story dates from 570 b.c.
    The “bird in hand” proverb, then, is an astoundingly sticky idea. It
has survived for more than 2,500 years. It has spread across conti-
nents, cultures, and languages. Keep in mind that nobody funded a
“bird in hand” advertising campaign. It spreads on its own. Many
other proverbs share this longevity. In fact, a repertoire of proverbs
has been found in almost every documented culture. Why? What is
their purpose?
    Proverbs are helpful in guiding individual decisions in environ-
ments with shared standards. Those shared standards are often ethi-
cal or moral norms. Proverbs offer rules of thumb for the behavior of
48                        M A D E TO S T I C K

individuals. The Golden Rule, “Do unto others as you would have
them do unto you,” is so profound that it can inﬂuence a lifetime of
behavior. The Golden Rule is a great symbol of what we’re chasing in
this chapter: ideas that are compact enough to be sticky and mean-
ingful enough to make a difference.
    Great simple ideas have an elegance and a utility that make them
function a lot like proverbs. Cervantes’s deﬁnition of “proverbs”
echoes our deﬁnition of Simple ideas: short sentences (compact)
drawn from long experience (core). We are right to be skeptical of
sound bites, because lots of sound bites are empty or misleading—
they’re compact without being core. But the Simple we’re chasing
isn’t a sound bite, it’s a proverb: compact and core.
    Adams managed to turn his core idea—the need to focus relent-
lessly on local issues—into a journalistic proverb. “Names, names,
and names” is an idea that helps guide individual decision-making in
a community of shared standards. If you’re a photographer, the prov-
erb has no value as a literal statement, unless you plan to shoot name
tags. But when you know that your organization thrives on names—
i.e., the speciﬁc actions taken by speciﬁc members of the local com-
munity—that knowledge informs the kinds of photo ops you look for.
Do you shoot the boring committee deliberations or the gorgeous
sunset over the park? Answer: the boring committee deliberations.

          Palm Pilot and the Visual Proverb

Compact ideas help people learn and remember a core message. But
they may be even more important when it comes time to help people
act properly, particularly in an environment where they have to make
lots of choices.
    Why do remote controls have more buttons than we ever use?
The answer starts with the noble intentions of engineers. Most tech-
nology and product-design projects must combat “feature creep,” the
                               SIMPLE                               49

tendency for things to become incrementally more complex until
they no longer perform their original functions very well. A VCR is
a case in point.
    Feature creep is an innocent process. An engineer looking at a
prototype of a remote control might think to herself, “Hey, there’s
some extra real estate here on the face of the control. And there’s
some extra processing capacity on the chip. Rather than let it go to
waste, what if we give people the ability to toggle between the Julian
and Gregorian calendars?”
    The engineer is just trying to help—to add another gee-whiz fea-
ture that will improve the remote control. The other engineers on the
team, meanwhile, don’t particularly care about the calendar-toggle.
Even if they think it’s lame, they probably don’t care enough to stage
a protest: “Either the calendar-toggle button goes or I quit!” In this
way, slowly and quietly, remote controls—and, by extension, other
types of technologies—are featured to death.
    The Palm Pilot team, aware of this danger, took a hard line against
feature creep. When the team began its work, in the early 1990s, per-
sonal digital assistants (PDAs) had an unblemished record of failure.
Apple’s famous debacle with its Newton PDA had made other com-
petitors gun-shy.
    One of the competitors on the PDA market in 1994 looked like a
malnourished computer. It was a bulky device with a keyboard and
multiple ports for peripherals. Jeff Hawkins, the Palm Pilot team
leader, was determined that his product would avoid this fate. He
wanted the Palm Pilot to be simple. It would handle four things: cal-
endars, contacts, memos, and task lists. The Palm Pilot would do
only four things, but it would do them well.
    Hawkins fought feature creep by carrying around a wooden block
the size of the Palm. Trae Vassallo, a member of the Palm V design
team, says, “The block was dumb, which resonated with the simple
technological goals of the product, but it was also small, which made
50                         M A D E TO S T I C K

the product elegant and different.” Hawkins would pull out the
wooden block to “take notes” during a meeting or “check his calen-
dar” in the hallway. Whenever someone suggested another feature,
Hawkins would pull out the wooden block and ask them where it
would ﬁt.
    Vassallo said that the Palm Pilot became a successful product “al-
most because it was deﬁned more in terms of what it was not than in
terms of what it was.” Tom Kelley, from IDEO, a prominent Silicon
Valley design ﬁrm, made a similar point: “The real barrier to the ini-
tial PDAs . . . was the idea that the machine had to do nearly every-
thing.”
    Hawkins knew that the core idea of his project needed to be ele-
gance and simplicity (and a tenacious avoidance of feature creep).
In sharing this core idea, Hawkins and his team used what was, in
essence, a visual proverb. The block of wood became a visual re-
minder to do a few things and do them well.
    There is a striking parallel between the development of the Palm
Pilot and the Clinton campaign led by James Carville. In both cases,
the teams were composed of people who were knowledgeable and
passionate about their work. Both teams boasted plenty of people who
had the capability and the desire to do a lot of different things—argue
every issue and engineer every feature. Yet in both cases the team
needed a simple reminder to ﬁght the temptation to do too much.
When you say three things, you say nothing. When your remote con-
trol has ﬁfty buttons, you can’t change the channel anymore.
                               SIMPLE                             51

                    Using What ’s There

Our messages have to be compact, because we can learn and re-
member only so much information at once. But suppose we’ve as-
sessed the core of our message and we have too much information to
aspire to the compactness of a proverb. How do we convey lots of in-
formation when we need to? The following exercise is designed to re-
inforce the need for compactness and to provide a hint about how to
cram more information into a compact message.
    Here are the rules of this exercise: Spend ten to ﬁfteen seconds,
no more, studying the letters below. Then close the book, pull out a
sheet of paper, and write down as many letters as you can remember.
Spoiler alert: Don’t turn the page until you’ve ﬁnished the exercise.

          J   FKFB     INAT     OUP     SNA     SAI   RS

If you’re like most people, you probably remembered about seven to
ten letters. That’s not much information. Compactness is essential,
because there’s a limit to the amount of information we can juggle at
once.
    Now turn the page and try the exercise again.
52                          M A D E TO S T I C K

   There’s a twist this time. We haven’t changed the letters or the se-
quence. All we’ve done is change the way the letters are grouped.
Once again, study the letters for ten to ﬁfteen seconds, then close the
book and test your recall.

            JFK     FBI    NATO        UPS         NASA   IRS

    Chances are you did much better the second time. Suddenly the
letters meant something, which made them easier to remember. In
Round 1, you were trying to remember raw data. In Round 2, you
were remembering concepts: John F. Kennedy, the FBI, the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization, UPS, NASA, the IRS.
    But wait a second. Why is it easier to remember “John F. Kennedy”
than the random letters F, J, K? Surely John F. Kennedy is a bigger
bundle of information than the three random letters! Think of all the
associations with JFK—politics, relationships, his assassination, and
his famous family. If remembering was like weight lifting, it would be
ridiculous to think we could “lift” JFK easier than three little letters!
    The secret, of course, is that we’re not “lifting” JFK. All the re-
membering work related to JFK has already been done. We’ve already
built those muscles—the concept of JFK, and all its associations, is al-
ready embedded in our memories. What we’re remembering is sim-
ply a pointer to this information—we’re posting a little ﬂag on the
terrain of our memory. With the raw letters, we’re posting three sepa-
rate ﬂags. In the end, it’s one bit of information (or one ﬂag) versus
three, and it’s no surprise that one is easier to remember.
    So what? Is this just neat brain trivia? Here’s where we’re going:
We’ve seen that compact ideas are stickier, but that compact ideas
alone aren’t valuable—only ideas with profound compactness are
valuable. So, to make a profound idea compact you’ve got to pack a
lot of meaning into a little bit of messaging. And how do you do that?
You use ﬂags. You tap the existing memory terrain of your audience.
You use what’s already there.
                                 SIMPLE                                   53

                     The Pomelo Schema

So far we have presented situations in which one simple idea, or a
handful of simple ideas, were useful in guiding behavior. But, let’s face
it, most people in the world do complicated things. It’s not our inten-
tion to argue that complicated things—law, medicine, construction,
programming, teaching—can be pared down to two or three compact
messages. We obviously can’t replace a school of architecture with a
single compact idea (“Keep the building from falling down”).
    This leads us to an important issue that we haven’t discussed yet:
How do you turn a freshman into an architect? How does complexity
emerge from simplicity? We will argue that it is possible to create
complexity through the artful use of simplicity. If simple ideas are
staged and layered correctly, they can very quickly become complex.
    Let us teach you what a “pomelo” is. (If you already know what a
pomelo is, be a good sport and feign ignorance.) Here is one way that
we can explain to you what a pomelo is:

   Explanation 1: A pomelo is the largest citrus fruit. The rind is
   very thick but soft and easy to peel away. The resulting fruit has a
   light yellow to coral pink ﬂesh and can vary from juicy to slightly
   dry and from seductively spicy-sweet to tangy and tart.

    Quick question: Based on this explanation, if you mixed pomelo
juice half and half with orange juice, would it taste good? You might
make a guess, but the answer is probably a bit ambiguous. Let’s move
on to an alternative explanation:

   Explanation 2: A pomelo is basically a supersized grapefruit with
   a very thick and soft rind.

   Explanation 2 sticks a ﬂag on a concept that you already know: a
grapefruit. When we tell you that a pomelo is like a grapefruit, you call
54                           M A D E TO S T I C K

up a mental image of a grapefruit. Then we tell you what to change
about it: It’s “supersized.” Your visualized grapefruit grows accordingly.
    We’ve made it easier for you to learn a new concept by tying it to a
concept that you already know. In this case, the concept is “grapefruit.”
“Grapefruit” is a schema that you already have. (“Schema” is a bit of
technical jargon from psychology, but it’s so useful that we think it’s
worth carrying through the book.)
    Psychologists deﬁne schema as a collection of generic properties
of a concept or category. Schemas consist of lots of prerecorded infor-
mation stored in our memories. If someone tells you that she saw a
great new sports car, a picture immediately springs to mind, ﬁlled
with generic properties. You know what “sports cars” are like. You pic-
ture something small and two-door, with a convertible top perhaps. If
the car in your picture moves, it moves fast. Its color is almost cer-
tainly red. Similarly, your schema of “grapefruit” also contains a clus-
ter of generic properties: yellow-pink color, tart ﬂavor, softball-sized,
and so on.
    By calling up your grapefruit schema, we were able to teach you
the concept of pomelo much faster than if we had mechanically
listed all the attributes of a pomelo. Note, too, that it’s easier to answer
the question about the blend of pomelo and orange juice. You know
that grapefruit juice blends well with OJ, so the pomelo schema in-
herits this property from the grapefruit schema. (By the way, to be
complete, Explanation 1 is itself full of schemas. “Citrus fruit” is a
schema, “rind” is a schema, and “tangy” is a schema. Explanation 2 is
easier to parse only because “grapefruit” is a higher-level schema—
a schema composed of other schemas.)
    By using schemas, Explanation 2 improves both our comprehen-
sion and our memory. Let’s think about the two deﬁnitions of
“pomelo” in terms of the inverted pyramid structure. What’s the lead?
Well, with Explanation 1 the lead is: citrus fruit. After the lead, there
is no clear hierarchy; depending on what catches people’s attention,
they might remember the rind info (“very thick but soft and easy to
                                 SIMPLE                                55

peel away”) or the color info (“light yellow to coral pink”) or the juici-
ness info or the taste info.
    With Explanation 2, the lead is: grapefruit-like. The second para-
graph is: supersized. The third paragraph is: very thick and soft rind.
    Six months from now, people will remember—at best!—the lead
of our story. That means that with one story they’d remember “fruit”
or “citrus fruit.” With the other story they’d remember “grapefruit.”
The second story is clearly better—it isn’t a judgment call.
    This concludes what will probably be the last psychological dis-
cussion of citrus fruit you’ll ever encounter. But though the concept
of “pomelo” may not be worth the neurons you just burned on it, the
underlying concept—that schemas enable profound simplicity—is
critical.
    Good teachers intuitively use lots of schemas. Economics teach-
ers, for instance, start with compact, stripped-down examples that can
be understood by students who have no preexisting economics
schemas. “Let’s say that you grow apples and I grow oranges. We’re
the only two people around. Let’s also say that we’d prefer to eat some
of both fruits rather than all of either. Should we trade? If so, how do
we go about doing it?”
    Students are initially taught how trade works in this simpliﬁed
context. This knowledge, in turn, becomes a basic trade schema for
them. Once learned, this schema can be called up and stretched
along some dimension. For example, what happens if you suddenly
get better at growing apples? Do we still trade the same way we did
before? To solve this problem, we’re calling up a schema and adapt-
ing it, just as we did in making a pomelo out of our grapefruit
schema.

                Complexity from Simplicity

Schemas help us create complex messages from simple materials. In
school, lots of science courses are taught by clever uses of schemas. In-
56                          M A D E TO S T I C K

troductory physics deals with simple, idealized situations: pulleys, in-
clines, objects moving at constant rates along frictionless paths. As stu-
dents become familiar with the “pulley” schema, it can be stretched in
some way or merged with other schemas to solve more complicated
problems.
    Another nice use of a schema is the solar system model of the
atom, which many of us were taught as kids. This model posits that
electrons orbit the nucleus, much as planets orbit the sun. This anal-
ogy gives students a quick, compact insight into how the atom works.
    The planetary analogy also provides an insight into the reason that
many people avoid compact schemas (“a supersized grapefruit”) in
favor of exhaustive description (“a citrus fruit with a soft, thick rind,
blah blah blah . . .”). The use of schemas can sometimes involve a
somewhat slower route to the “real truth.” For instance, physicists
now know that electrons don’t orbit the nucleus the way that planets
do. In reality, electrons move in “probability clouds.” So what do you
tell a sixth grader? Do you talk about the motion of planets, which is
easy to understand and nudges you closer to the truth? Or do you talk
about “probability clouds,” which are impossible to understand but
accurate?
    The choice may seem to be a difﬁcult one: (1) accuracy ﬁrst, at
the expense of accessibility; or (2) accessibility ﬁrst, at the expense of
accuracy. But in many circumstances this is a false choice for one
compelling reason: If a message can’t be used to make predictions or
decisions, it is without value, no matter how accurate or comprehen-
sive it is.
    Herb Kelleher could tell a ﬂight attendant that her goal is to “max-
imize shareholder value.” In some sense, this statement is more ac-
curate and complete than that the goal is to be “THE low-fare
airline.” After all, the proverb “THE low-fare airline” is clearly in-
complete—Southwest could offer lower fares by eliminating aircraft
maintenance, or by asking passengers to share napkins. Clearly, there
are additional values (customer comfort, safety ratings) that reﬁne
                               SIMPLE                               57

Southwest’s core value of economy. The problem with “maximize
shareholder value,” despite its accuracy, is that it doesn’t help the
ﬂight attendant decide whether to serve chicken salad. An accurate
but useless idea is still useless.
    We discussed the Curse of Knowledge in the introduction—the
difﬁculty of remembering what it was like not to know something.
Accuracy to the point of uselessness is a symptom of the Curse of
Knowledge. To a CEO, “maximizing shareholder value” may be an
immensely useful rule of behavior. To a ﬂight attendant, it’s not. To
a physicist, probability clouds are fascinating phenomena. To a
child, they are incomprehensible.
    People are tempted to tell you everything, with perfect accuracy,
right up front, when they should be giving you just enough info to be
useful, then a little more, then a little more.

                  Schemas in Hollywood:
                   High- concept Pitches

A great way to avoid useless accuracy, and to dodge the Curse of
Knowledge, is to use analogies. Analogies derive their power from
schemas: A pomelo is like a grapefruit. A good news story is struc-
tured like an inverted pyramid. Skin damage is like aging. Analogies
make it possible to understand a compact message because they in-
voke concepts that you already know.
    A good analogy can wield a lot of power. In fact, in Hollywood
$100 million movies can be green-lighted based largely on the
strength of a one-sentence analogy.
    The average Hollywood studio considers hundreds of pitches or
screenplays for every movie it makes. It may be hard to muster sym-
pathy for the life of studio execs, but let’s try for a moment. Imagine
the terrifying decisions they must make. When they invest in a movie,
they are essentially betting millions of dollars—and their own reputa-
tions—on an intangible idea.
58                         M A D E TO S T I C K

    Contrast a movie pitch with the blueprint for a home. If an archi-
tect creates a nifty blueprint for a home, and someone puts up the
money for construction, you can feel pretty conﬁdent that, nine
months later, you’ll have a home that realizes the architect’s original
vision.
    A movie pitch, on the other hand, is destined to change. When a
screenwriter is hired, the story will change. When a director is hired,
the artistic feel of the movie will change. When stars are hired to play
the parts, their personalities will change how we perceive the charac-
ters in the story. When producers are hired, the storytelling will be-
come subject to ﬁnancial and logistical constraints. And when the
movie is completed, months or years later, the marketing team will
need to ﬁnd a way to explain the plot to the public in about thirty sec-
onds—without giving away too much.
    Imagine investing millions in an idea that will change as it is ﬁl-
tered through the consciousness of a succession of individuals with
giant egos: directors, stars, producers, marketers. That idea had better
be good.
    In Hollywood, people use core ideas called “high-concept
pitches.” You’ve probably heard some of them. Speed was “Die Hard
on a bus.” 13 Going on 30 was “Big for girls.” Alien was “Jaws on a
spaceship.”
    The high-concept pitches don’t always reference other movies.
E.T., for instance, was pitched as “Lost alien befriends lonely boy to
get home.” But a lot of pitches do invoke past movies. Why is that? Is
it because Hollywood is full of cynical execs who shamelessly recycle
old ideas?
    Well, yes, but that’s only part of the reason. The concept of the
movie Speed, before it was pitched, obviously did not exist in the
minds of the execs. It was like the word “pomelo,” before you knew
what it meant. The compact, ﬁve-word phrase “Die Hard on a bus”
pours a breathtaking amount of meaning into the previously nonex-
                                SIMPLE                                59

istent concept of Speed. To see this, think of all the important deci-
sions you could make, just on the strength of those ﬁve words. Do you
hire an action director or an indie director? Action. Do you budget
$10 million for the movie or $100 million? $100 million. Big star or
ensemble cast? Big star. Target a summer release or a Christmas re-
lease? Summer.
    As another example, imagine that you were just hired to be the
production designer on the new ﬁlm Alien. It will be your job to de-
sign the spaceship where most of the movie takes place. What does it
look like? If you knew nothing at all about the movie, you might sen-
sibly start by looking at old spaceship designs. For instance, think of
the cool, immaculate interior of the Enterprise on Star Trek.
    Then your boss tells you that the vision for the movie is “Jaws on
a spaceship.” That changes everything. Jaws was not cool or immac-
ulate. Richard Dreyfus navigated around on a rickety old boat. De-
cisions were rushed, slapdash, claustrophobic, anxiety-ridden. The
environment was sweaty. As you think about what made Jaws tick,
your ideas start to take shape: The ship will be underdeveloped,
dingy, and oppressive. The crew members will not wear bright Lycra
uniforms. The rooms will not be well lit and lintless.
    High-concept pitches are Hollywood’s version of core proverbs.
Like most proverbs, they tap the power of analogy. By invoking
schemas that already exist (e.g., what the movie Jaws is like), the prov-
erbs radically accelerate the learning process for people working on a
brand-new movie.
    Obviously, a good pitch is not synonymous with a good movie.
“Jaws on a spaceship” could have turned into a terrible movie if it
weren’t for the contributions of hundreds of talented people over a
period of years. On the other hand, a bad pitch—a bad proverb—is
plenty to ruin a movie. No director could save “Terms of Endearment
on a spaceship.”
    If high-concept pitches can have this power in the movie world—
60                         M A D E TO S T I C K

an environment ﬁlled with forty times the normal density of egos—
we should feel conﬁdent that we can harness the same power in our
own environments.

                    Generative Analogies

Some analogies are so useful that they don’t merely shed light on a
concept, they actually become platforms for novel thinking. For ex-
ample, the metaphor of the brain as a computer has been central to
the insights generated by cognitive psychologists during the past ﬁfty
years. It’s easier to deﬁne how a computer works than to deﬁne how
the brain works. For this reason it can be fruitful for psychologists to
use various, well-understood aspects of a computer—such as mem-
ory, buffers, or processors—as inspiration to locate similar functions
in the brain.
    Good metaphors are “generative.” The psychologist Donald Schon
introduced this term to describe metaphors that generate “new per-
ceptions, explanations, and inventions.” Many simple sticky ideas are
actually generative metaphors in disguise. For example, Disney calls
its employees “cast members.” This metaphor of employees as cast
members in a theatrical production is communicated consistently
throughout the organization:

     • Cast members don’t interview for a job, they audition for a
       role.
     • When they are walking around the park, they are onstage.
     • People visiting Disney are guests, not customers.
     • Jobs are performances; uniforms are costumes.

    The theater metaphor is immensely useful for Disney employees.
It is so useful that just by reading the last few paragraphs you can
probably predict how cast members should behave in situations we
haven’t discussed. For instance, you can probably guess that employ-
                                  SIMPLE                                 61

ees are not allowed to be on break while in costume and in a public
area. (An actor would never have a chat and a cigarette in mid-scene.)
You might guess that street sweepers are evaluated on criteria other
than the cleanliness of their sidewalks. Indeed, street sweepers are
some of the most highly trained cast members, since their very visible
public presence—coupled with the fact that they are clearly Disney
employees—makes them an obvious target for customers’ questions
about rides, parades, and restroom locations. Having them think of
their role as performance, rather than maintenance, is a key part of
the park’s success. “Employees as cast members” is a generative
metaphor that has worked for Disney for more than ﬁfty years.
    Contrast Disney with Subway. Like Disney, Subway has created a
metaphor for its frontline employees. They are “sandwich artists.”
This metaphor is the evil twin of Disney’s “cast members.” It is utterly
useless as a guide to how the employee should act. Disney expects its
cast members to behave like actors, but Subway does not expect its
counter help to behave like artists. The deﬁning trait of an “artist” is
individual expression. We wonder how long an employee would last
at Subway if she exhibited a lot of individual expression—in dress, in
interaction, in the presentation of sandwiches. No doubt Subway’s
sandwich artists are trusted to place a handful of onions on a twelve-
inch sub, and it’s true that this is a certain kind of liberty. But one sus-
pects that the counter person’s “artistry” can’t extend to adding an
extra slice of turkey.

                   The Power of Simplicity

Generative metaphors and proverbs both derive their power from a
clever substitution: They substitute something easy to think about for
something difﬁcult. The proverb “A bird in hand is worth two in the
bush” gives us a tangible, easily processed statement that we can use
for guidance in complex, emotionally fraught situations. Generative
metaphors perform a similar role. The “cast members” at Disney
62                         M A D E TO S T I C K

might ﬁnd it easier to tackle a new situation from the perspective of a
hired actor than from their own unique individual perspective.
   Proverbs are the Holy Grail of simplicity. Coming up with a short,
compact phrase is easy. Anybody can do it. On the other hand, com-
ing up with a profound compact phrase is incredibly difﬁcult. What
we’ve tried to show in this chapter is that the effort is worth it—that
“ﬁnding the core,” and expressing it in the form of a compact idea,
can be enduringly powerful.
                           C H A P T E R   2

            UNEXPECTED

        y FAA edict, a ﬂight attendant must make a safety announce-

B       ment before a passenger plane takes off. We’ve all heard it:
        where the exits are, what to do in case of a “sudden change in
cabin pressure,” how to use your seat as a ﬂotation device, and why you
shouldn’t smoke in the lavatories (or tinker with the smoke alarm).
   Flight-safety announcements might be labeled a tough message
environment. No one cares about what’s being communicated. The
ﬂight attendant doesn’t care. The passengers don’t care. Filibusters
are fascinating by comparison.
   What if you were asked to make the safety announcement? Worse,
what if you actually needed people to listen to you? How would you
handle it?
   A ﬂight attendant named Karen Wood faced exactly this situation
and solved it with creativity. On a ﬂight from Dallas to San Diego,
she made the following announcement:

   If I could have your attention for a few moments, we sure would
   love to point out these safety features. If you haven’t been in an
   automobile since 1965, the proper way to fasten your seat belt is
64                            M A D E TO S T I C K

     to slide the ﬂat end into the buckle. To unfasten, lift up on the
     buckle and it will release.
         And as the song goes, there might be ﬁfty ways to leave your
     lover, but there are only six ways to leave this aircraft: two forward
     exit doors, two over-wing removable window exits, and two aft exit
     doors. The location of each exit is clearly marked with signs over-
     head, as well as red and white disco lights along the ﬂoor of the
     aisle.
         Made ya look!

    It didn’t take long for passengers to tune into Wood’s comic spiel.
When she wrapped up her announcement, scattered applause broke
out. (And if a well-designed message can make people applaud for a
safety announcement there’s hope for all of us.)
    The ﬁrst problem of communication is getting people’s attention.
Some communicators have the authority to demand attention. Par-
ents are good at this: “Bobby, look at me!” Most of the time, though,
we can’t demand attention; we must attract it. This is a tougher chal-
lenge. People say, “You can’t make people pay attention,” and there is
a commonsense ring to that. But wait a minute: That’s exactly what
Karen Wood did. She made people pay attention, and she didn’t even
need to raise her voice.
    The most basic way to get someone’s attention is this: Break a pat-
tern. Humans adapt incredibly quickly to consistent patterns. Consis-
tent sensory stimulation makes us tune out: Think of the hum of an
air conditioner, or trafﬁc noise, or the smell of a candle, or the sight of
a bookshelf. We may become consciously aware of these things only
when something changes: The air conditioner shuts off. Your spouse
rearranges the books.
    Wood got people’s attention in a message-hostile environment by
avoiding the same generic safety spiel that her passengers had heard
many times. She told jokes, which not only got people’s attention but
                             UNEXPECTED                                65

kept it. But if getting attention had been Wood’s only concern, she
wouldn’t have needed to be so entertaining. She could have gotten
passengers’ attention just as easily by starting the announcement and
then suddenly pausing in midsentence. Or switching to Russian for a
few seconds.
    Our brain is designed to be keenly aware of changes. Smart prod-
uct designers are well aware of this tendency. They make sure that,
when products require users to pay attention, something changes.
Warning lights blink on and off because we would tune out a light
that was constantly on. Old emergency sirens wailed in a two-note
pattern, but modern sirens wail in a more complex pattern that’s even
more attention-grabbing. Car alarms make diabolical use of our
change sensitivity.
    This chapter focuses on two essential questions: How do I get peo-
ple’s attention? And, just as crucially, How do I keep it? We can’t suc-
ceed if our messages don’t break through the clutter to get people’s
attention. Furthermore, our messages are usually complex enough
that we won’t succeed if we can’t keep people’s attention.
    To understand the answers to these two questions, we have to un-
derstand two essential emotions—surprise and interest—that are
commonly provoked by naturally sticky ideas.

   • Surprise gets our attention. Some naturally sticky ideas pro-
     pose surprising “facts”: The Great Wall of China is the
     only man-made structure visible from space! You use only
     10 percent of your brain! You should drink eight glasses of
     water a day! Urban legends frequently contain surprising
     plot twists.
   • Interest keeps our attention. There are classes of sticky ideas
     that maintain our interest over time. Conspiracy theories
     keep people ravenously collecting new information. Gossip
     keeps us coming back to our friends for developments.
66                         M A D E TO S T I C K

   Naturally sticky ideas are frequently unexpected. If we can make
our ideas more unexpected, they will be stickier. But can you generate
“unexpectedness”? Isn’t “planned unexpectedness” an oxymoron?

            GETTING PEOPLE’S ATTENTION

                      No One Ever Does

The television commercial for the new Enclave minivan opens with
the Enclave sitting in front of a park. A boy holding a football helmet
climbs into the minivan, followed by his two younger sisters. “Intro-
ducing the all-new Enclave,” begins a woman’s voice-over. Dad is be-
hind the wheel and Mom is in the passenger seat. Cup holders are
everywhere. Dad starts the car and pulls away from the curb. “It’s a
minivan to the max.”
    The minivan cruises slowly through suburban streets. “With fea-
tures like remote-controlled sliding rear doors, 150 cable channels, a
full sky-view roof, temperature-controlled cup holders, and the six-
point navigation system . . . It’s the minivan for families on the go.”
    The Enclave pulls to a stop at an intersection. The camera zooms
in on the boy, gazing out a side window that reﬂects giant, leafy trees.
Dad pulls into the intersection.
    That’s when it happens.
    A speeding car barrels into the intersection and broadsides the
minivan. There is a terrifying collision, with metal buckling and an
explosion of broken glass.
    The screen fades to black, and a message appears: “Didn’t see that
coming?”
    The question fades and is replaced by a statement: “No one ever
does.”
    With the sound of a stuck horn blaring in the background, a few
ﬁnal words ﬂash across the screen: “Buckle up . . . Always.”
    There is no Enclave minivan. This ad was created by the Ad
                             UNEXPECTED                                67

Council. (The Enclave spot was sponsored by the U.S. Department
of Transportation.) The Ad Council, founded in 1942, has launched
many successful campaigns, from the World War II–era “Loose Lips
Sink Ships” to the more recent “Friends Don’t Let Friends Drive
Drunk.” The Enclave ad, like many other Council ads, capitalizes on
the second characteristic of sticky ideas: Unexpectedness.
    The Enclave ad is unexpected because it violates our schema for
car commercials. We know how car commercials are supposed to be-
have. Pickups climb mountains of boulders. Sports cars zip along va-
cant curvy roads. SUVs carry yuppies through forests to waterfalls.
And minivans deliver kids to soccer practice. No one dies, ever.
    The ad is unexpected in a second way: It violates our schema of
real-life neighborhood trips. We take thousands of trips in our neigh-
borhoods, and the vast majority of them end safely. The commercial
reminds us that accidents are inherently unexpected—we ought to
buckle up, just in case.
    Our schemas are like guessing machines. Schemas help us pre-
dict what will happen and, consequently, how we should make deci-
sions. The Enclave asks, “Didn’t see that coming?” No, we didn’t.
Our guessing machines failed, which caused us to be surprised.
    Emotions are elegantly tuned to help us deal with critical situa-
tions. They prepare us for different ways of acting and thinking.
We’ve all heard that anger prepares us to ﬁght and fear prepares us to
ﬂee. The linkages between emotion and behavior can be more sub-
tle, though. For instance, a secondary effect of being angry, which
was recently discovered by researchers, is that we become more cer-
tain of our judgments. When we’re angry, we know we’re right, as
anyone who has been in a relationship can attest.
    So if emotions have biological purposes, then what is the biologi-
cal purpose of surprise? Surprise jolts us to attention. Surprise is trig-
gered when our schemas fail, and it prepares us to understand why
the failure occurred. When our guessing machines fail, surprise grabs
our attention so that we can repair them for the future.
68                          M A D E TO S T I C K

                      The Surprise Brow

Surprise is associated with a facial expression that is consistent across
cultures. In a book called Unmasking the Face, Paul Ekman and Wal-
lace Friesen coined a term, “the surprise brow,” to describe the dis-
tinctive facial expression of surprise: “The eyebrows appear curved
and high. . . . The skin below the brow has been stretched by the lift-
ing of the brow, and is more visible than usual.”
    When our brows go up, it widens our eyes and gives us a broader
ﬁeld of vision—the surprise brow is our body’s way of forcing us to see
more. We may also do a double take to make sure that we saw what
we thought we saw. By way of contrast, when we’re angry our eyes
narrow so that we can focus on a known problem. In addition to mak-
ing our eyebrows rise, surprise causes our jaws to drop and our
mouths to gape. We’re struck momentarily speechless. Our bodies
temporarily stop moving and our muscles go slack. It’s as though our
bodies want to ensure that we’re not talking or moving when we
ought to be taking in new information.
    So surprise acts as a kind of emergency override when we confront
something unexpected and our guessing machines fail. Things come
to a halt, ongoing activities are interrupted, our attention focuses in-
voluntarily on the event that surprised us. When a minivan com-
mercial ends in a bloodcurdling crash, we stop and wonder, What is
going on?
    Unexpected ideas are more likely to stick because surprise makes
us pay attention and think. That extra attention and thinking sears
unexpected events into our memories. Surprise gets our attention.
Sometimes the attention is ﬂeeting, but in other cases surprise can
lead to enduring attention. Surprise can prompt us to hunt for under-
lying causes, to imagine other possibilities, to ﬁgure out how to avoid
surprises in the future.
    Researchers who study conspiracy theories, for instance, have
noted that many of them arise when people are grappling with unex-
                             UNEXPECTED                              69

pected events, such as when the young and attractive die suddenly.
There are conspiracy theories about the sudden deaths of JFK, Mari-
lyn Monroe, Elvis, and Kurt Cobain. There tends to be less conspira-
torial interest in the sudden deaths of ninety-year-olds.
    Surprise makes us want to ﬁnd an answer—to resolve the question
of why we were surprised—and big surprises call for big answers. If
we want to motivate people to pay attention, we should seize the
power of big surprises.

                     Avoiding Gimmickry

Going for a big surprise, though, can cause a big problem. It’s easy to
step over the line into gimmickry.
    The late 1990s was the heyday of the dot-com bubble. Venture-
backed start-ups poured millions of dollars into advertising to estab-
lish their brands. With increasing amounts of money chasing a ﬁnite
amount of consumer attention, ads had to work harder and harder to
provoke surprise and interest.
    During the Super Bowl of 2000, an ad ran that opened with a col-
lege marching band practicing on a football ﬁeld. We’re shown close-
ups of the band members as they execute their precision movements.
Then we cut to the stadium tunnel, which leads out onto the ﬁeld—
and suddenly a dozen ravenous wolves rush onto the ﬁeld. Band
members scatter in terror as the wolves hunt them down and attack.
    What was this advertisement for? We have no idea. There’s no
question that this ad was surprising and memorable. To this day,
we remember the tastelessly comic image of the wolves chasing the
terriﬁed band members. But because the surprise was utterly non-
germane to the message that needed to be communicated, it was
worthless. If the product being advertised had been “mauling-proof
band uniforms,” on the other hand, the ad could have been an award
winner.
    In this sense, the wolves ad is the opposite of the Enclave ad. Both
70                         M A D E TO S T I C K

ads contain powerful surprises, but only the Enclave ad uses that sur-
prise to reinforce its core message. In Chapter 1 we discussed the im-
portance of ﬁnding the core in your ideas. Using surprise in the
service of a core message can be extremely powerful.

                    Hension and Phraug

Below is a list of four words. Read each one and take a second to de-
termine whether it’s a real English word.

                             HENSION
                             BARDLE
                             PHRAUG
                              TAYBL

    According to Bruce Whittlesea and Lisa Williams, the researchers
who developed this task, “PHRAUG and TAYBL often cause raised
eyebrows, and an ‘Oh!’ reaction. HENSION and BARDLE often
cause a frown.”
    PHRAUG and TAYBL cause the surprise brow because they look
unfamiliar but sound familiar. The “Oh!” reaction comes when we
realize that PHRAUG is just a funny way to spell FROG.
    HENSION and BARDLE are more troubling. They seem oddly
familiar, because they borrow letter combinations from common
words. They have the look of SAT words—fancy vocabulary that we
should probably know but don’t. But HENSION and BARDLE are
made-up words. When we realize that we’ve been struggling to ﬁnd a
nonexistent solution, we get frustrated.
    HENSION and BARDLE provide an example of surprise without
insight. So far, we’ve talked a lot about the power of surprise, and how
surprise can make our ideas stickier. But although HENSION and
BARDLE are surprising, they aren’t sticky; they’re just frustrating.
What we see now is that surprise isn’t enough. We also need insight.
                             UNEXPECTED                              71

    To be surprising, an event can’t be predictable. Surprise is the op-
posite of predictability. But, to be satisfying, surprise must be “post-
dictable.” The twist makes sense after you think about it, but it’s not
something you would have seen coming. PHRAUG is post-dictable,
but HENSION isn’t. Contrast the feeling you get from TV shows or
ﬁlms, such as The Sixth Sense, that have great surprise endings—
endings that unite clues that you’ve been exposed to all along—with
the feeling you get from gimmicky, unforeseeable endings (“It was
all a dream”).
    We started the chapter by pointing out that surprise happens
when our guessing machines fail. The emotion of surprise is de-
signed to focus our attention on the failure, so that we can improve
our guessing machines for the future. Then we drew a distinction be-
tween gimmicky surprise, like dot-com ads, and meaningful post-
dictable surprise.
    Here is the bottom line for our everyday purposes: If you want
your ideas to be stickier, you’ve got to break someone’s guessing ma-
chine and then ﬁx it. But in surprising people, in breaking their
guessing machines, how do we avoid gimmicky surprise, like the
wolves? The easiest way to avoid gimmicky surprise and ensure that
your unexpected ideas produce insight is to make sure you target an
aspect of your audience’s guessing machines that relates to your core
message. We’ve already seen a few examples of this strategy.
    In Chapter 1, we discussed Hoover Adams, the newspaper pub-
lisher whose mantra is “Names, names, and names.” To most local
newspaper reporters, this mantra will seem like common sense. Cer-
tainly, their schemas of “good local news” involve community-focused
stories.
    But that wasn’t Adams’s point. He had something much more rad-
ical in mind. So he broke their schema by saying, essentially, “If I
could, I’d publish pages from the phone book to get names. In fact, if
I could gather up enough names I’d hire more typesetters to lay out
more pages so they’d ﬁt.” Suddenly the reporters realized that
72                        M A D E TO S T I C K

“Names, names, and names” was not consistent with their schemas.
Whereas their previous schema might have been “Try to emphasize
local angles when you can,” Adams had replaced that with “Names
come before everything else, even my own proﬁtability.” That’s a
message that draws power from its unexpectedness.
    Another example we discussed in Chapter 1 was Southwest Air-
lines’ proverb “THE low-cost airline.” Again, most Southwest staffers
and customers know that Southwest is a discount airline. In that con-
text, the proverb seems intuitive. It was only when Kelleher put teeth
in the proverb—refusing to offer chicken salad to customers even if
they really wanted it—that its meaning sank in. Before Kelleher, an
average staffer’s guessing machine might have predicted, “We want to
please our customers in a low-cost way.” After Kelleher, the guessing
machine was reﬁned to “We will be THE low-cost airline, even if it
means intentionally disregarding some of our customers’ prefer-
ences.”
    So, a good process for making your ideas stickier is: (1) Identify
the central message you need to communicate—ﬁnd the core; (2)
Figure out what is counterintuitive about the message—i.e., What
are the unexpected implications of your core message? Why isn’t it
already happening naturally? (3) Communicate your message in a
way that breaks your audience’s guessing machines along the critical,
counterintuitive dimension. Then, once their guessing machines
have failed, help them reﬁne their machines.
    Common sense is the enemy of sticky messages. When messages
sound like common sense, they ﬂoat gently in one ear and out the
other. And why shouldn’t they? If I already intuitively “get” what
you’re trying to tell me, why should I obsess about remembering it?
The danger, of course, is that what sounds like common sense often
isn’t, as with the Hoover Adams and Southwest examples. It’s your
job, as a communicator, to expose the parts of your message that are
uncommon sense.
                             UNEXPECTED                                 73

                Tire Chains at Nordstrom

Nordstrom is a department store known for outstanding customer ser-
vice. That extra service comes at a price: Nordstrom can be an expen-
sive place to shop. Yet many people are willing to pay higher prices
precisely because Nordstrom makes shopping so much more pleasant.
    For Nordstrom’s strategy to work, it must transform its frontline
employees into customer-service zealots. And they do not walk in the
door that way. Most people with service experience come from envi-
ronments where managers spend much of their energy trying to min-
imize labor costs. The prevailing schema of customer service might
be, roughly, “Get customers in and out the door as fast as possible,
and try to smile.”
    Job applicants at Nordstrom will likely have years of experience
acting on this schema. But Nordstrom has a different philosophy:
Make customers happy even at the expense of efﬁciency. How does
Nordstrom break down one schema and replace it with another?
    The company solves this problem, in part, through unexpected
stories. Jim Collins and Jerry Porras, in their book Built to Last, de-
scribe stories told at Nordstrom about unexpected service by employ-
ees, who are known within the ﬁrm as “Nordies”:

   The Nordie who ironed a new shirt for a customer who needed it
   for a meeting that afternoon;
       the Nordie who cheerfully gift wrapped products a customer
   bought at Macy’s;
       the Nordie who warmed customers’ cars in winter while they
   ﬁnished shopping;
       the Nordie who made a last-minute delivery of party clothes to
   a frantic hostess;
       and even the Nordie who refunded money for a set of tire
   chains—although Nordstrom doesn’t sell tire chains.
74                          M A D E TO S T I C K

    You can imagine the surprise, if not shock, that these stories pro-
voke in new Nordstrom employees. “Wrap a gift from Macy’s! I don’t
get it. What’s in it for us?” These stories attack the unspoken assump-
tions of customer service, such as: Service stops at the door of the
store. Don’t waste your time on someone who’s not buying. Once you
close a sale, move on to the next prospect.
    To new employees, the idea of wrapping a gift bought at a com-
petitor’s store is so absurd, so far outside the bounds of their existing
notion of “service,” that the story stops them in their tracks. Their
guessing machines have been broken. Their old “good service” guess-
ing machine would never have produced the idea of altruistic gift-
wrapping. The stories provide the ﬁrst step toward replacing a new
employee’s schema of “good service” with the Nordstrom service
schema.
    In this way, Nordstrom breaks through the complacency of com-
mon sense. Instead of spreading stories about “Nordies,” Nordstrom
could simply tell its employees that its mission is to provide “the best
customer service in the industry.” This statement may be true, but,
unfortunately, it sounds like something that JCPenney or Sears might
also tell its employees. To make a message stick, you’ve got to push it
beyond common sense to uncommon sense. “Great customer ser-
vice” is common sense. Warming customers’ cars in the winter is un-
common sense.
    Note that these stories would be even more unexpected—and
even less commonsensical—if they were told about a 7-Eleven em-
ployee. “Yeah, I went in to get a pack of smokes and the counter clerk
ironed my shirt!” The value of the stories does not come from unex-
pectedness in and of itself. The value comes from the perfect align-
ment between Nordstrom’s goals and the content of the stories.
These stories could just as easily be destructive in another context.
The 7-Eleven management does not want to face an epidemic of gift-
wrapping clerks.
    Nordstrom’s stories are a classic example of the power of unex-
                              UNEXPECTED                                75

pectedness. There’s no danger that the stories will feel gimmicky, be-
cause the surprise is followed by insight—the stories tell us what it
means to be a good Nordstrom employee. It’s uncommon sense in
the service of a core message.

                         Journalism 101

Nora Ephron is a screenwriter whose scripts for Silkwood, When
Harry Met Sally, and Sleepless in Seattle have all been nominated for
Academy Awards. Ephron started her career as a journalist for the
New York Post and Esquire. She became a journalist because of her
high school journalism teacher.
    Ephron still remembers the ﬁrst day of her journalism class. Al-
though the students had no journalism experience, they walked into
their ﬁrst class with a sense of what a journalist does: A journalists gets
the facts and reports them. To get the facts, you track down the ﬁve
Ws—who, what, where, when, and why.
    As students sat in front of their manual typewriters, Ephron’s
teacher announced the ﬁrst assignment. They would write the lead of
a newspaper story. The teacher reeled off the facts: “Kenneth L. Pe-
ters, the principal of Beverly Hills High School, announced today that
the entire high school faculty will travel to Sacramento next Thursday
for a colloquium in new teaching methods. Among the speakers will
be anthropologist Margaret Mead, college president Dr. Robert May-
nard Hutchins, and California governor Edmund ‘Pat’ Brown.”
    The budding journalists sat at their typewriters and pecked away at
the ﬁrst lead of their careers. According to Ephron, she and most of
the other students produced leads that reordered the facts and con-
densed them into a single sentence: “Governor Pat Brown, Margaret
Mead, and Robert Maynard Hutchins will address the Beverly Hills
High School faculty Thursday in Sacramento . . . blah, blah, blah.”
    The teacher collected the leads and scanned them rapidly. Then
he laid them aside and paused for a moment.
76                         M A D E TO S T I C K

   Finally, he said, “The lead to the story is ‘There will be no school
next Thursday.’ ”
   “It was a breathtaking moment,” Ephron recalls. “In that instant I
realized that journalism was not just about regurgitating the facts
but about ﬁguring out the point. It wasn’t enough to know the who,
what, when, and where; you had to understand what it meant. And
why it mattered.” For the rest of the year, she says, every assignment
had a secret—a hidden point that the students had to ﬁgure out in
order to produce a good story.

    his idea should be in the Sticky Hall of Fame. This teacher had a
T   huge impact not because he was a dynamic speaker or a caring
mentor—though he may have been both—but because he crafted a
brilliant idea. It was an idea that, in a matter of seconds, rewrote the
schema of journalism in the minds of his students. An idea that
changed a student’s career plans and stuck with her thirty years later.
    What made this idea work? First, the teacher knew that the stu-
dents had a defective schema of journalism, and he knew how it was
defective. Second, he made them publicly commit to their defective
models with the “write the lead” assignment. Then he pulled the rug
out from under them with a well-structured surprise. By revealing the
right lead—“There will be no school next Thursday”—he took their
mental models, gave them a swift kick, and made them work better.
                            UNEXPECTED                                     77

                             C L I N I C

           Does America Spend Too Much
                 on Foreign Aid?

THE SITUATION: Over the years, polls have shown that the majority of

Americans think the federal government spends too much on foreign
aid. The ratio has dropped toward ﬁfty/ﬁfty since 9/11, but half of
Americans still think we overspend. Let’s look at two arguments that
try to persuade people that we spend too little, not too much.

                               • • •
MESSAGE 1: Here is a message from the Intercommunity Peace and

Justice Center, a Catholic advocacy group:
   Americans persist in thinking we spend too much on foreign aid
despite honest efforts to inform the public by the State Department
and other government agencies. Even President Bush’s proposed in-
creases, though welcome, will not make the United States generous
in its foreign assistance. In ﬁscal year 2003, the Bush administration
will spend about $15-billion in foreign aid, but over $7-billion of this
amount—almost half—will be military, not economic assistance. The
$8-billion in foreign economic assistance is, according to a recent es-
timate by the Congressional Budget Ofﬁce, less than the cost of one
month of war with Iraq. Of all the industrialized nations, the U.S.
spends proportionally the least amount on foreign aid, and has for
many years. All of sub-Saharan Africa receives just over $1-billion of
economic assistance, about the cost of a B-2 bomber. Our foreign
aid programs do not support our belief that we are a nation known
for its good works around the world.

COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 1: First, notice that the lead has been buried.

The last sentence is the most effective argument. Americans’ schema
78                              M A D E TO S T I C K

     of the United States is that it is a generous, caring country—“known
     for its good works around the world.” The way to break that schema
     is to lay out the blunt fact that the United States “spends proportion-
     ally the least amount on foreign aid, and has for many years.”
         The numbers in billions are unlikely to stick—huge numbers are
     difﬁcult to grasp and hard to remember. One effective part of the
     message, in combating this “big-number problem,” is the analogy
     comparing our sub-Saharan Africa aid to the cost of a single B-2
     bomber. We really like this comparison, because it puts the reader in
     a decision-making mode: “Would I trade one B-2 bomber for the
     chance to double aid to sub-Saharan Africa?”
         To make this message stickier, let’s try two things. First, let’s just
     reshufﬂe the great raw materials that are already there while down-
     playing the numbers in the billions. Second, let’s choose a concrete
     comparison that has a better emotional resonance. Some people
     might think B-2 bombers are a reasonable expense. Let’s try to create
     a comparison that would be more unexpected because it’s clearly
     frivolous.

                                     • • •
     MESSAGE 2: Our foreign-aid programs do not support our belief that

     we are a nation known for its good works around the world. The pub-
     lic believes we spend a great deal more money helping other coun-
     tries than we actually do. Polls suggest that most Americans think the
     federal government spends about 10 to 15 percent of its budget on
     foreign aid. The truth is that we spend less than 1 percent, the lowest
     of any industrialized nation.
         All of sub-Saharan Africa receives just over $1 billion in economic
     aid. If everyone in the United States gave up one soft drink a month,
     we could double our current aid to Africa. If everyone gave up one
     movie a year, we could double our current aid to Africa and Asia.
                             UNEXPECTED                                     79

COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 2: Here’s what we tried to do to make this

message stickier: First, we built interest by quickly and directly break-
ing our schema of a “generous America.” We also shifted the conver-
sation to percentages, which are easier to understand than billions.
Second, we tried to make the B-2 analogy more concrete by re-
placing it with soft drinks and movies. Soft drinks and movies are
more tangible—does anyone really have a “gut feel” for what a B-2
bomber costs, or what it’s worth? Soft drinks and movies, because
they are frivolous expenses, also provide an emotional contrast to the
critical human needs present in Africa.

                          S C O R E C A R D

           Checklist           Message 1           Message 2
           Simple                   -                  
           Unexpected                                 
                             (B-2 comparison)        (intro &
                                                   comparison)

           Concrete                                   
           Credible                                   
           Emotional                -                  
           Story                    -                   -

PUNCH LINE : The best way to get people’s attention is to break their

existing schemas directly.
80                            M A D E TO S T I C K

              KEEPING PEOPLE’S ATTENTION

                   The Mystery of the Rings

We began this chapter with two questions: How do we get people’s at-
tention? And how do we keep it? So far, most of our unexpected ideas
represent relatively simple, quick adjustments to a model. They may
be profound—as with Nora Ephron’s journalism teacher—but they
happen rapidly, so they only need to get people’s attention for a short
time. Sometimes, though, our messages are more complex. How do
we get people to stick with us through a more complex message? How
do we keep people’s attention?
    A few years ago, Robert Cialdini, a social psychologist at Arizona
State University, set out to improve the way he talked about science
in his writing and in his classes. For inspiration, he went to the li-
brary. He pulled down every book he could ﬁnd in which scientists
were writing for an audience of nonscientists. He photocopied sec-
tions of prose that he liked. Later, ﬂipping through his stack of copied
passages, he hunted for consistencies.
    In passages that weren’t interesting, he found mostly what he ex-
pected. The purpose wasn’t clear, and the prose was too formal and rid-
dled with jargon. He also found a lot of predictable virtues in the good
passages: The structure was clear, the examples vivid, and the language
ﬂuid. “But,” says Cialdini, “I also found something I had not expected—
the most successful of these pieces all began with a mystery story. The
authors described a state of affairs that seemed to make no sense and
then invited the reader into the material as a way of solving the mystery.”
    One example that stuck in his mind was written by an astronomer,
who began with a puzzle:

     How can we account for what is perhaps the most spectacular plan-
     etary feature in our solar system, the rings of Saturn? There’s noth-
     ing else like them. What are the rings of Saturn made of anyway?
                             UNEXPECTED                                   81

       And then he deepened the mystery further by asking, “How
   could three internationally acclaimed groups of scientists come to
   wholly different conclusions on the answer?” One, at Cambridge
   University, proclaimed they were gas; another group, at MIT, was
   convinced they were made up of dust particles; while the third, at
   Cal Tech, insisted they were comprised of ice crystals. How could
   this be, after all, each group was looking at the same thing, right?
   So, what was the answer?

    The answer unfolded like the plot of a mystery. The teams of sci-
entists pursued promising leads, they hit dead ends, they chased
clues. Eventually, after many months of effort, there was a break-
through. Cialdini says, “Do you know what the answer was at the end
of twenty pages? Dust. Dust. Actually, ice-covered dust, which ac-
counts for some of the confusion. Now, I don’t care about dust, and
the makeup of the rings of Saturn is entirely irrelevant to my life. But
that writer had me turning pages like a speed-reader.”
    Mysteries are powerful, Cialdini says, because they create a need
for closure. “You’ve heard of the famous Aha! experience, right?” he
says. “Well, the Aha! experience is much more satisfying when it is
preceded by the Huh? experience.”
    By creating a mystery, the writer-astronomer made dust interest-
ing. He sustained attention, not just for the span of a punch line but
for the span of a twenty-page article dense with information on scien-
tiﬁc theories and experimentation.
    Cialdini began to create mysteries in his own classroom, and the
power of the approach quickly became clear. He would introduce the
mystery at the start of class, return to it during the lecture, and reveal
the answer at the end. In one lecture, though, the end-of-class bell
rang before he had time to reveal the solution. He says, “Normally
ﬁve to ten minutes before the scheduled end time, some students
start preparing to leave. You know the signals—pencils are put away,
notebooks folded, backpacks zipped up.” This time, though, the class
82                         M A D E TO S T I C K

was silent. “After the bell rang, no one moved. In fact, when I tried to
end the lecture without revealing the mystery, I was pelted with
protests.” He said he felt as if he’d discovered dynamite.
    Cialdini believes that a major beneﬁt of teaching using mysteries
is that “the process of resolving mysteries is remarkably similar to the
process of science.” So, by using mysteries, teachers don’t just
heighten students’ interest in the day’s material; they train them to
think like scientists.
    Science doesn’t have a monopoly on mysteries. Mysteries exist
wherever there are questions without obvious answers. Why is it so
hard to get pandas at the zoo to breed? Why don’t customers like our
new product? What’s the best way to teach kids about fractions?
    Notice what is happening here: We have now moved to a higher
level of unexpectedness. In the Nordstrom example, the Nordie sto-
ries had a punchy immediacy: Nordies warm up customers’ cars!
When you hear this, your past schema of customer service is called
up, contradicted, and reﬁned, all in a short period of time. Mysteries
act differently. Mystery is created not from an unexpected moment
but from an unexpected journey. We know where we’re headed—we
want to solve the mystery—but we’re not sure how we’ll get there.
    A schema violation is a onetime transaction. Boom, something
has changed. If we were told that the rings of Saturn were made of
dryer lint, a schema would be violated. We could call it “ﬁrst-level”
unexpectedness. But the actual “rings of Saturn mystery” is more ex-
tended and subtle. We are told that scientists do not know what Sat-
urn’s rings are made of, and we’re asked to follow on a journey whose
ending is unpredictable. That’s second-level unexpectedness. In this
way, we jump from ﬂeeting surprise to enduring interest.

         Curiosity in Hollywood Screenplays

Early in the movie Trading Places, Billy Ray Valentine (played by
Eddie Murphy), an apparently legless beggar, is using his arms to
                             UNEXPECTED                               83

push himself around on a skateboardish contraption in a public park.
He begs for money from passersby and harasses an attractive woman
for a date. A couple of cops approach. As they jerk him up, his legs—
perfectly normal legs—are exposed. Valentine is a con artist.
    Later in the movie, the Duke brothers—two elderly business-
men—intervene to get Valentine out of jail, persuading the cops to
release him into their custody. A couple of scenes later, Valentine ap-
pears, dressed in a three-piece suit, in a wood-paneled ofﬁce. The
Duke brothers have turned him into a commodities trader.
    Robert McKee, the screenwriting guru, uses this example to illus-
trate the concept of a “Turning Point.” McKee knows something about
how to hold an audience’s attention. His screenwriting seminars play
to packed auditoriums of aspiring screenwriters, who pay ﬁve hundred
dollars a head to listen to his thoughts. The Village Voice described his
course as “damned near indispensable not only for writers, but also for
actors, directors, reviewers, and garden-variety cinephiles.” His stu-
dents have written, directed, or produced television shows such as
E.R., Hill Street Blues, and The X-Files, and movies ranging from The
Color Purple to Forrest Gump and Friday the 13th.
    McKee says, “Curiosity is the intellectual need to answer ques-
tions and close open patterns. Story plays to this universal desire by
doing the opposite, posing questions and opening situations.” In
Trading Places, the Turning Point with Billy Ray and the Duke broth-
ers makes the audience curious. How will Valentine, the street-smart
con man, fare as a trader?
    In McKee’s view, a great script is designed so that every scene is a
Turning Point. “Each Turning Point hooks curiosity. The audience
wonders, What will happen next? and How will it turn out? The an-
swer to this will not arrive until the Climax of the last act, and so the
audience, held by curiosity, stays put.” McKee notes that the How will
it turn out? question is powerful enough to keep us watching even
when we know better. “Think of all the bad ﬁlms you’ve sat through
just to get the answer to that nagging question.”
84                          M A D E TO S T I C K

    What will happen next? How will it turn out? We want to answer
these questions, and that desire keeps us interested. It keeps us watch-
ing bad movies—but it might also keep us reading long scientiﬁc arti-
cles. McKee and Cialdini have come up with similar solutions to very
different problems.
    Yet there are other domains where people can be rabidly inter-
ested in something that lacks this sense of mystery. Kids who obses-
sively memorize Pokémon characters and their traits are motivated by
something, but it isn’t What will happen next? It isn’t a sense of an un-
folding mystery that keeps car buffs plowing through every issue of
Car & Driver. But, as we’ll discover, Pokémon fans and car buffs have
something in common with movie viewers and students in an in-
triguing lecture.
    Psychologists have studied this question—What makes people inter-
ested?—for decades. The holy grail of research on interest is to ﬁnd a
way to describe situational interest. In other words, what features of a
situation spark and elevate interest? What makes situations interesting?
As it turns out, Cialdini and McKee were pretty close to the mark.

             The “Gap Theory ” of Curiosity

In 1994, George Loewenstein, a behavioral economist at Carnegie
Mellon University, provided the most comprehensive account of sit-
uational interest. It is surprisingly simple. Curiosity, he says, happens
when we feel a gap in our knowledge.
    Loewenstein argues that gaps cause pain. When we want to know
something but don’t, it’s like having an itch that we need to scratch.
To take away the pain, we need to ﬁll the knowledge gap. We sit pa-
tiently through bad movies, even though they may be painful to
watch, because it’s too painful not to know how they end.
    This “gap theory” of interest seems to explain why some domains
create fanatical interest: They naturally create knowledge gaps. Take
                            UNEXPECTED                              85

movies, for instance. McKee’s language is similar to Loewenstein’s:
McKee says, “Story works by posing questions and opening situa-
tions.” Movies cause us to ask, What will happen? Mystery novels
cause us to ask, Who did it? Sports contests cause us to ask, Who will
win? Crossword puzzles cause us to ask, What is a six-letter word for
“psychiatrist”? Pokémon cards cause kids to wonder, Which charac-
ters am I missing?
    One important implication of the gap theory is that we need to
open gaps before we close them. Our tendency is to tell people the
facts. First, though, they must realize that they need these facts. The
trick to convincing people that they need our message, according to
Loewenstein, is to ﬁrst highlight some speciﬁc knowledge that they’re
missing. We can pose a question or puzzle that confronts people with
a gap in their knowledge. We can point out that someone else knows
something they don’t. We can present them with situations that have
unknown resolutions, such as elections, sports events, or mysteries.
We can challenge them to predict an outcome (which creates two
knowledge gaps—What will happen? and Was I right?).
    As an example, most local news programs run teaser ads for up-
coming broadcasts. The teasers preview the lead story of the evening,
usually in laughably hyperbolic terms: “There’s a new drug sweeping
the teenage community—and it may be in your own medicine cabi-
net!” “Which famous local restaurant was just cited—for slime in the
ice machine?” “There’s an invisible chemical in your home—and it
may be killing you right now!”
    These are sensationalist examples of the gap theory. They work
because they tease you with something that you don’t know—in fact,
something that you didn’t care about at all, until you found out that
you didn’t know it. “Is my daughter strung out on one of my old pre-
scriptions? I wonder if I ate at the restaurant with the slime?”
    A little dollop of the news-teaser approach can make our commu-
nications a lot more interesting, as we’ll see in the Clinic.
86                              M A D E TO S T I C K

                                   C L I N I C

        An Internal Presentation on Fund-raising

     THE SITUATION: Imagine that you’re the fund-raising manager for a

     local theater company. Your job is to help raise donations to support
     the theater. It’s now the end of the year, and you’re preparing a sum-
     mary presentation for the theater’s board of directors.

                                     • • •
     MESSAGE 1: (Both messages in this Clinic are made up.)

        This year we targeted support from theatergoers under thirty-ﬁve.
     Our goal is to increase donations from younger patrons, who have tra-
     ditionally composed a much greater percentage of our audience than
     of our donor base. To reach them, we implemented a phone-based
     fund-raising program. Six months into the program, the response rate
     has been almost 20 percent, which we consider a success.

     COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 1: This message is a classic summary ap-

     proach. I know the facts. I’ve put the facts in a logical order and I will
     spoon-feed them to you. As a presentation format, it’s safe and nor-
     mal and thoroughly nonsticky.
        In improving this message, we need to think about how to elicit
     interest rather than force-feeding facts. We’ll try to add a dash of the
     news-teaser approach.

                                     • • •
     MESSAGE 2: This year we set out to answer a question: Why do people

     under thirty-ﬁve, who make up 40 percent of our audience, provide
     only 10 percent of our donations? Our theory was that they didn’t re-
     alize how much we rely on charitable donations to do our work, so
                            UNEXPECTED                                    87

we decided to try calling them with a short overview of our business
and our upcoming shows. Going into the six-month test, we thought
a 10 percent response rate would be a success. Before I tell you what
happened, let me remind you of how we set up the program.

COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 2: This approach is inspired by the gap the-

ory. The goal is not to summarize; it’s to make you care about know-
ing something, and then to tell you what you want to know. Like the
Saturn rings mystery, it starts with a puzzle: Why don’t young people
donate more? Then we present a theory and a way of testing it. The
mystery engages the members of our audience, causing them to
wonder what happened and whether our theory was right.
   The improvement here is driven by structure, not content. Let’s
face it, this is not a particularly interesting mystery. It would never
make an episode of Law & Order. But our minds are extremely gen-
erous when it comes to mysteries—the format is inherently appealing.

                         S C O R E C A R D

           Checklist          Message 1           Message 2
           Simple                  -                   -
           Unexpected              -                  
           Concrete                -                   -
           Credible                                  
           Emotional               -                   -
           Story                   -                   -

PUNCH LINE : To hold people’s interest, we can use the gap theory of

curiosity to our advantage. A little bit of mystery goes a long way.
88                         M A D E TO S T I C K

    The news-teaser approach can be used with all sorts of ideas in all
sorts of contexts. To make our communications more effective, we
need to shift our thinking from “What information do I need to con-
vey?” to “What questions do I want my audience to ask?”

                 Battling Overconfidence

The gap theory relies on our ability to point out things that people
don’t know. One complication is that people tend to think they know
a lot. Research has shown that we are typically overconﬁdent about
how much we know.
    In one study, researchers asked people to consider the serious
parking problem faced by their university. Participants were given
time to generate as many solutions as they could. The participants
generated, in total, about 300 solutions, which were classiﬁed into
seven major categories. One category suggested ways to reduce de-
mand for parking (e.g., by raising parking fees), and another sug-
gested ways to use parking space more efﬁciently (e.g., by creating
spaces for “Compact Cars Only”).
    The average participant failed to identify more than 70 percent of
the best solutions identiﬁed by an expert panel. This failure is under-
standable; we wouldn’t expect any one person to be able to generate
a database worth of solutions. However, when the individuals were
asked to assess their own performance, they predicted that they had
identiﬁed 75 percent. They thought they got the majority, but in real-
ity they’d missed them.
    If people believe they know everything, it’s hard to make the gap
theory work. Fortunately, there are strategies for combating overcon-
ﬁdence. For instance, Nora Ephron’s journalism teacher prevented
overconﬁdence by causing the students’ schemas of journalism to
fail. He made them commit to their preconceived ideas and then
pulled the rug out from under them.
    Making people commit to a prediction can help prevent overcon-
                             UNEXPECTED                               89

ﬁdence. Eric Mazur, a physics professor at Harvard, came up with a
pedagogical innovation known as “concept testing.” Every so often in
his classes, Mazur will pose a conceptual question and then ask his
students to vote publicly on the answer. The simple act of commit-
ting to an answer makes the students more engaged and more curious
about the outcome.
    Overconﬁdent people are more likely to recognize a knowledge
gap when they realize that others disagree with them. Nancy Lowry
and David Johnson studied a teaching environment where ﬁfth and
sixth graders were assigned to interact on a topic. With one group, the
discussion was led in a way that fostered a consensus. With the sec-
ond group, the discussion was designed to produce disagreements
about the right answer.
    Students who achieved easy consensus were less interested in
the topic, studied less, and were less likely to visit the library to get
additional information. The most telling difference, though, was re-
vealed when teachers showed a special ﬁlm about the discussion
topic—during recess! Only 18 percent of the consensus students
missed recess to see the ﬁlm, but 45 percent of the students from the
disagreement group stayed for the ﬁlm. The thirst to ﬁll a knowledge
gap—to ﬁnd out who was right—can be more powerful than the thirst
for slides and jungle gyms.

               Gaps Start with Knowledge

If curiosity arises from knowledge gaps, we might assume that when
we know more, we’ll become less curious because there are fewer
gaps in our knowledge. But Loewenstein argues that the opposite is
true. He says that as we gain information we are more and more likely
to focus on what we don’t know. Someone who knows the state capi-
tals of 17 of 50 states may be proud of her knowledge. But someone
who knows 47 may be more likely to think of herself as not knowing
3 capitals.
90                        M A D E TO S T I C K

    Some topics naturally highlight gaps in our knowledge. Human-
interest stories are fascinating because we know what it’s like to be
human—but we don’t know what it’s like to have certain dramatic ex-
periences. How does it feel to win an Olympic medal? How does it
feel to win the Lotto? How did it feel to be conjoined twins Chang
and Eng Bunker (each of whom not only married but had ten chil-
dren . . . which sparks several additional lines of questioning)?
    Gossip is popular because we know a lot about some people but
there’s some information that we lack. We don’t gossip about passing
acquaintances. Celebrity gossip is particularly tantalizing. We have a
sense of who Tiger Woods and Julia Roberts are, but we crave the
missing pieces—their quirks, their romantic struggles, their secret
vices.
    Curiosity comes from gaps in our knowledge. But what if there’s
not much knowledge there to begin with? In the 1960s, an upstart
television network, American Broadcasting Corporation, signed a
contract to televise NCAA football games. College sports is a classic
insiders’ topic. With the exception of a fringe of die-hard sports
junkies, most fans usually care only about their own schools’ teams.
But ABC could show only a few games each week in each region.
For ABC’s bet to pay off, it needed to make viewers care about games
that didn’t involve their home teams.
    How do you go about making viewers in College Station, Texas,
care about the Michigan vs. Ohio State matchup? A twenty-nine-
year-old named Roone Arledge, whose previous responsibilities
primarily involved assigning crews to cover baseball, boxing, and
football games, wrote a memo suggesting ways to improve the cover-
age of college football games.
    Arledge saw ample room for improvement. Sportscasters typically
set up their cameras, focused on the ﬁeld, and waited for something
to happen in front of them. They ignored everything else—the fans,
the color, the pageantry. “It was like looking out on the Grand
Canyon through a peephole in a door,” Arledge said.
                             UNEXPECTED                                  91

   One Saturday afternoon, after procrastinating all morning, he sat
down to type out a proposal to his bosses:

   Heretofore, television has done a remarkable job of bringing the
   game to the viewer—now we are going to take the viewer to the
   game! . . .
       After our opening commercial billboards, instead of dissolving
   to the usual pan shots of the ﬁeld we will have pre-shot ﬁlm of the
   campus and the stadium so we can orient the viewer. He must
   know he is in Columbus, Ohio, where the town is football mad;
   or that he is part of a small but wildly enthusiastic crowd in Cor-
   vallis, Oregon. He must know what the surrounding country and
   campus look like, how many other people are watching this game
   with him, how the people dress at football games in this part of
   the country, and what the game means to the two schools in-
   volved.

   The memo was three pages long. It discussed camera angles, im-
pact shots, opening graphics. The heart of the memo, though, was a
new way of engaging viewers who might not ordinarily care about a
college game in Corvallis, Oregon. The trick, Arledge said, was to
give people enough context about the game so that they’d start to
care.
   Other people at ABC were excited by what Arledge had written. Two
days later, he was asked—at age twenty-nine, with a skimpy résumé—to
produce a college-football game using the guidelines in his memo.
   Arledge intuitively made use of Loewenstein’s gap theory. How do
you get people interested in a topic? You point out a gap in their
knowledge. But what if they lack so much knowledge about, say, the
Georgia Bulldogs, that they’ve got more of an abyss than a gap? In
that case, you have to ﬁll in enough knowledge to make the abyss into
a gap. Arledge set the scene, showed the local fans, panned across the
campus. He talked up the emotions, the rivalries, the histories. By the
92                          M A D E TO S T I C K

time the game started, some viewers had begun to care who won.
Others were riveted.
    Arledge’s next assignment was to take over a series that was even-
tually renamed Wide World of Sports. The show introduced Ameri-
cans to a variety of sports events they may never have seen before: the
Tour de France, the Le Mans auto races, rodeo championships, ski
races, and soccer matches. In covering these events, Arledge used the
same philosophy he’d pioneered for the NCAA: Set the context and
give people enough backstory that they start to care about the gaps in
their knowledge. Who’s going to falter during the grueling twenty-
four-hour Le Mans? Will the teacher turned barrel racer win the
championship? What the heck is a yellow card?
    Arledge died in 2002. During his career, he became the head of
ABC Sports and later ABC News. He founded the Wide World of
Sports, Monday Night Football, 20/20, and Nightline. He won thirty-
six Emmys. The tool kit he developed for NCAA football stood the
test of time. The way to get people to care is to provide context. Today
that seems obvious, because these techniques have become ubiqui-
tous. But this avalanche of context started because a twenty-nine-
year-old wrote a memo about how to make college football more
interesting.
    Many teachers use some version of the Arledge tool kit to prime
their students’ interest. Some label the strategy “advanced organiz-
ers.” The idea is that to engage students in a new topic you should
start by highlighting some things they already know. An earth-science
teacher might ask her students to bring in pictures of an earthquake’s
devastation, as a way of leading up to a discussion of plate tectonics.
Alternatively, the teacher can set the context, à la Arledge, so that stu-
dents start to become interested. A chemistry teacher might lead into
the periodic table of elements by discussing Mendeleyev and his
long, passionate quest to organize the elements. In this way, the peri-
odic table emerges from within the context of a sort of detective story.
    Knowledge gaps create interest. But to prove that the knowledge
                             UNEXPECTED                                93

gaps exist, it may be necessary to highlight some knowledge ﬁrst.
“Here’s what you know. Now here’s what you’re missing.” Alterna-
tively, you can set context so people care what comes next. It’s no ac-
cident that mystery novelists and crossword-puzzle writers give us
clues. When we feel that we’re close to the solution of a puzzle, cu-
riosity takes over and propels us to the ﬁnish.
    Treasure maps, as shown in the movies, are vague. They show a
few key landmarks and a big X where the treasure is. Usually the ad-
venturer knows just enough to ﬁnd the ﬁrst landmark, which becomes
the ﬁrst step in a long journey toward the treasure. If treasure maps
were produced on MapQuest.com, with door-to-door directions, it
would kill the adventure-movie genre. There is value in sequencing in-
formation—not dumping a stack of information on someone at once
but dropping a clue, then another clue, then another. This method of
communication resembles ﬂirting more than lecturing.
    Unexpected ideas, by opening a knowledge gap, tease and ﬂirt.
They mark a big red X on something that needs to be discovered but
don’t necessarily tell you how to get there. And, as we’ll see, a red X of
spectacular size can end up driving the actions of thousands of peo-
ple for many years.

   Walking on the Moon and Radios in Pockets

In the rubble of Tokyo after World War II, a young company, later
named Sony, struggled to stay in business. It attracted a handful of
smart scientists and engineers, but its ﬁrst innovation, an electric rice
cooker, was a failure. Initially, Sony survived by repairing shortwave
radios.
    Around this time, Masaru Ibuka, Sony’s lead technologist, became
intrigued by transistors, which had recently been invented by a team
at Bell Laboratories. Ibuka craved a “substantial” project to motivate
his team of ﬁfty scientists and engineers, and he saw tremendous
promise in transistors. But when he bid to license the technology from
94                          M A D E TO S T I C K

Bell Labs, the Japanese Ministry of Trade and Industry denied the li-
cense. It was skeptical of the young company’s ability to manage such
a cutting-edge technology.
    In 1953, Ibuka secured permission to license transistors. He had a
vision for a radio that would be based on transistors. The advantage of
a transistor radio was obvious to engineers; it would free radios from
the big vacuum tubes that made them so bulky and unreliable. Bell
Labs told Ibuka that it didn’t think a “transistor radio” was possible.
His engineers began to pursue the vision anyway.
    Let’s pause here for a moment to put ourselves in Ibuka’s shoes.
Your company has been struggling, and you’ve got a team of brilliant
people whom you need to inspire. You have the potential to lead
them in one hundred different directions—rice cookers or radios or
telephones or whatever else R & D could dream up. But you’re con-
vinced that the idea of a transistor-based radio is the most promising
path.
    Your core message, then, is the dream of a transistor radio. How
do you make this message unexpected? How do you engage the cu-
riosity and interest of your team? The concept of a “transistor radio” is
probably not enough, in and of itself, to motivate your team. It’s fo-
cused more on technology than on value. A transistor radio—so
what?
    What about tapping into some of the classic managerial themes?
Competition: “Sony will beat Bell Labs in making a transistor radio
work.” Quality: “Sony will be the world’s most respected manufac-
turer of radios.” Innovation: “Sony will create the most advanced ra-
dios in the world.”
    Here’s the idea Ibuka proposed to his team: a “pocketable radio.”
    It’s hard, in retrospect, to comprehend the hubris of that idea—
how utterly unexpected, how preposterous, it must have seemed the
ﬁrst time a Sony engineer heard it. Radios were not things you put
into your pocket; they were pieces of furniture. At the time, radio fac-
tories employed full-time cabinetmakers.
                             UNEXPECTED                              95

    Furthermore, the idea that an upstart Japanese company would
deliver such an innovation, when the brilliant minds at Bell Labs
thought it impossible, was not credible. After all, the 1950s were a
decade when “Made in Japan” was synonymous with shoddy work-
manship.
    But Sony engineers were talented and hungry. Ibuka’s idea of a
pocketable radio caught on internally and drove Sony through an in-
credible period of growth. By 1957, Sony had grown to 1,200 em-
ployees. In March 1957, just four years after Sony was grudgingly
granted permission to tinker with transistors, the company released
the TR-55, the world’s ﬁrst pocketable transistor radio. The TR-55
sold 1.5 million units and put Sony on the world map.
    A “pocketable radio”—isn’t this simply a brilliant product idea,
rather than a brilliant “sticky idea”? No, it is both, and both elements
are indispensable. There’s no question that someone in the world
would have invented a transistor radio, even if Ibuka had decided to
build the world’s fanciest rice cooker. Transistor radios were an in-
evitable technological progression. But the ﬁrst transistor radios were
nowhere near pocket-sized, and without Ibuka’s unexpected idea his
engineers might have stopped pursuing the technology long before it
became small enough to be useful. Ibuka inspired years of effort be-
cause he came up with an unexpected idea that challenged hundreds
of engineers to do their best work.
    In May 1961, John F. Kennedy gave a speech to a special session
of Congress. It was a time when the Cold War dominated global pol-
itics. The Cold War allowed for few ways to measure success—to
record gains and losses—but, in one highly visible ﬁeld, the United
States was clearly lagging behind. That ﬁeld was space.
    Four years earlier, the United States—which had prided itself as
the most technologically advanced nation—was stunned when the
Soviet Union launched Sputnik, the ﬁrst satellite. The United States
eventually responded with its own satellite launches, but the Soviet
Union maintained its lead, racking up ﬁrst after ﬁrst. In April 1961,
96                          M A D E TO S T I C K

Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin became the ﬁrst human in space.
U.S. astronaut Alan Shepard followed a month later.
    In Kennedy’s address to Congress, he outlined a series of requests
to help the United States maintain its leadership during the Cold
War. He asked for funds to achieve a number of strategic goals: to es-
tablish the AID program for international development, to expand
the NATO alliance, to build radio and television stations in Latin
America and Southeast Asia, and to shore up civil defense.
    But he ended the speech on a curious note. His ﬁnal proposal had
nothing to do with international aid or civil defense. It was this: “I be-
lieve that this nation should commit itself to achieving the goal, be-
fore this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon and returning
him safely to the earth . . . if we make this judgment afﬁrmatively, it
will not be one man going to the moon, it will be an entire nation.
For all of us must work to put him there.”
    Two unexpected ideas. Both create surprise. Radios are pieces of
furniture, not something to slip into a pocket. Men don’t walk on the
moon. It’s a long way up. The air is thin.
    Both create insight. Rather than leading us along a plodding route
from one incremental step to the next, the ideas give us a sudden,
dramatic glimpse of how the world might unfold. And not just how
but why.
    Both create knowledge gaps. Loewenstein, the author of the gap
theory, says it’s important to remember that knowledge gaps are
painful. “If people like curiosity, why do they work to resolve it?” he
asks. “Why don’t they put mystery novels down before the last chap-
ter, or turn off the television before the ﬁnal inning of a close ball
game?”
    Both of these unexpected ideas set up big knowledge gaps—but
not so big that they seemed insurmountable. Kennedy didn’t propose
a “man on Mercury,” and Ibuka didn’t propose an “implantable
radio.” Each goal was audacious and provocative, but not paralyzing.
Any engineer who heard the “man on the moon” speech must have
                             UNEXPECTED                              97

begun brainstorming immediately: “Well, ﬁrst we’d need to solve this
problem, then we’d need to develop this technology, then . . .”
    The vision of a pocketable radio sustained a company through a
tricky period of growth and led it to become an internationally recog-
nized player in technology. The vision of a man on the moon sus-
tained tens of thousands of separate individuals, in dozens of
organizations, for almost a decade. These are big, powerful, sticky
ideas.
    When we’re skeptical about our ability to get people’s attention, or
our ability to keep people’s attention, we should draw inspiration from
Kennedy and Ibuka. And, on a smaller scale, from Nora Ephron’s
journalism teacher and Nordstrom’s managers. Unexpectedness, in
the service of core principles, can have surprising longevity.
                           C H A P T E R    3

               CONCRETE

   One hot summer day a Fox was strolling through an orchard. He
   saw a bunch of Grapes ripening high on a grape vine. “Just the
   thing to quench my thirst,” he said. Backing up a few paces, he
   took a run and jumped at the grapes, just missing. Turning
   around again, he ran faster and jumped again. Still a miss. Again
   and again he jumped, until at last he gave up out of exhaustion.
   Walking away with his nose in the air, he said: “I am sure they are
   sour.” It is easy to despise what you can’t get.

      he fable above, “The Fox and the Grapes,” was written by

T     Aesop. According to Herodotus, he was a slave (though he was
      later freed). Aesop authored some of the stickiest stories in
world history. We’ve all heard his greatest hits: “The Tortoise and the
Hare,” “The Boy Who Cried Wolf,” “The Goose That Laid the
Golden Eggs,” “The Wolf in Sheep’s Clothing,” and many more. If
any story told in this book is still circulating a few millennia from
now, odds are it will be “The Fox and the Grapes.”
   Even English speakers who’ve never heard “The Fox and the
Grapes” will recognize the phrase “sour grapes,” which encapsulates
                              CONCRETE                                99

the moral of the story. Aesop’s lesson has traveled the world. In Hun-
gary, people say savanyu a szolo—“sour grapes” in Hungarian. In
China, they say, “Grapes are sour because you cannot reach them.”
In Sweden, a little local color was added; the Swedish expression Surt
sa räven om rönnbären means “Sour, the fox said, about the rowan-
berries.”
    Clearly, Aesop was illustrating a universal human shortcoming.
The fable would not have survived for more than 2,500 years if it
didn’t reﬂect some profound truth about human nature. But there
are many profound truths that have not seeped into the day-to-day
language and thinking of dozens of cultures. This truth is especially
sticky because of the way it was encoded. The concrete images evoked
by the fable—the grapes, the fox, the dismissive comment about sour
grapes—allowed its message to persist. One suspects that the life span
of Aesop’s ideas would have been shorter if they’d been encoded as
Aesop’s Helpful Suggestions—“Don’t be such a bitter jerk when you
fail.”
    What the world needs is a lot more fables. On the Web, a satirical
site features a “Business Buzzword Generator.” Readers can produce
their own business buzzwords by combining one word each from
three columns, which yields phrases like “reciprocal cost-based re-
engineering,” “customer-oriented visionary paradigm,” and “strategic
logistical values.” (All of these sound eerily plausible as buzzwords, by
the way.) Teachers have their own buzzwords: metacognitive skills, in-
trinsic motivation, portfolio assessment, developmentally appropriate,
thematic learning. And if you’ve ever talked to a doctor, we don’t even
have to provide examples. Our favorite from medicine: “idiopathic
cardiomyopathy.” “Cardiomyopathy” means something is wrong with
your heart, and “idiopathic” means “we have no idea why yours isn’t
working.”
    Language is often abstract, but life is not abstract. Teachers teach
students about battles and animals and books. Doctors repair prob-
100                         M A D E TO S T I C K

lems with our stomachs, backs, and hearts. Companies create soft-
ware, build planes, distribute newspapers; they build cars that are
cheaper, faster, or fancier than last year’s. Even the most abstract busi-
ness strategy must eventually show up in the tangible actions of
human beings. It’s easier to understand those tangible actions than to
understand an abstract strategy statement—just as it’s easier to under-
stand a fox dissing some grapes than an abstract commentary about
the human psyche.
   Abstraction makes it harder to understand an idea and to remem-
ber it. It also makes it harder to coordinate our activities with others,
who may interpret the abstraction in very different ways. Concrete-
ness helps us avoid these problems. This is perhaps the most impor-
tant lesson that Aesop can teach us.

                  The Nature Conservancy

For ﬁfty years, The Nature Conservancy (TNC) has helped protect
environmentally precious areas in the world using the simplest possi-
ble method: It buys them. It buys land at market prices, making it off-
limits to environmentally damaging uses, such as development or
logging. This strategy has come to be known within TNC as “bucks
and acres.” It had appeal to donors and benefactors, because the re-
sults of their gifts were so clear. A big gift bought a big piece of land.
A small gift bought a small piece of land. As one donor commented,
TNC produced “results you could walk around on.”
    In 2002, Mike Sweeney, the COO of TNC California, was facing
a big challenge. California is particularly important to TNC, because
it contains so many environmentally critical areas. California is one
of only ﬁve Mediterranean climate regions in the world. (The others
are the fynbos of South Africa, the matorral of Chile, the kwongan of
Australia, and, of course, the Mediterranean.) These Mediterranean
climate zones occupy only 2 percent of the world’s landmass but host
                              CONCRETE                               101

more than 20 percent of its plant species. If you want to buy environ-
mentally precious land, Mediterranean climates give you a lot of
bang for your buck.
    In 2002, Sweeney and his staff had taken a map of California and
colored in the most environmentally sensitive areas, the areas worth
preserving. Astonishingly, 40 percent of the map was colored. This
was a non-starter: There weren’t enough bucks out there to buy that
many acres.
    Yet 9 percent of the state was classiﬁed as being in “critical dan-
ger.” Nine percent of California was still far too much to contemplate
purchasing, but these regions were environmentally essential; TNC
couldn’t simply give up on them.
    TNC decided to implement some new approaches. “Bucks and
acres” couldn’t succeed with this vast quantity of land. So instead of
owning the land outright, TNC would ensure that the critical areas
were protected against damage. The organization would pay land-
owners not to develop their land, buying what’s known as a “conser-
vation easement.” It would work with local and state governments to
change policies and encourage conservation of private and public
land. It would focus on important marine areas, where there was no
land to buy.
    These new strategies made sense—TNC could protect more areas
than it could reach through “bucks and acres.” But they also had
drawbacks. First, they were much less concrete to donors. Donors
can’t “walk around on” a favorable government regulation. Second,
they were also potentially demoralizing for employees—they made
progress less tangible. When TNC was focused on land deals,
Sweeney said, “it was easy to celebrate a deal closing, to tell everyone,
‘John and Mary got this land,’ and to pat them on the back.” These
“milestone moments,” so great for morale, were harder to ﬁnd in the
new model. How could TNC make the new strategy more concrete?
    What would you do in this situation? Is there a way to recapture
102                         M A D E TO S T I C K

the invaluable tangibility of the “bucks and acres” strategy in a con-
text that was necessarily more ambiguous? You’ve got 40 percent (or
at least 9 percent) of the state to protect, and you can’t buy it. How do
you explain yourself to donors and partners?
    Chip has discussed this case with his students at Stanford, and in
grappling with the need for concreteness some students respond by
breaking up the impossibly large scale of the challenge—40 percent
of California! 9 percent in critical need!—by subdividing it into more
tangible “subgoals.” For example: “We will protect a 2 percent chunk
of California every year for twenty years.” Others try to invoke a unit
of measurement that we can understand, such as the acre. Most peo-
ple can visualize an acre. But the scale is too big: 2 percent of Cali-
fornia is about two million acres. No one can picture two million
acres.
    The students are wisely trying to ﬁnd a way to break up a big, ab-
stract goal into smaller, more concrete subgoals. This is the right
idea. But in this case the numbers are just too big. And “acreage” is
not necessarily the best way to think. There are 1,500-acre plots of
land that are more environmentally precious than other 90,000-acre
plots. Thinking about “acreage per year” is akin to a museum curator
thinking about “canvases per year,” without regard to period, style, or
painter.
    Here’s what TNC did: Instead of talking in terms of land area, it
talked about a “landscape.” A landscape is a contiguous plot of land
with unique, environmentally precious features. The TNC set a goal
of preserving ﬁfty landscapes—of which twenty-ﬁve were an immedi-
ate priority—over a ten-year period. Five landscapes per year sounds
more realistic than 2 million acres per year, and it’s much more con-
crete.
    To the east of Silicon Valley there is a set of brown hills that are
the beginnings of a wilderness the size of Yosemite. The brown hills
are an important watershed for the San Francisco Bay, but they are
                                CONCRETE                                 103

quickly being chipped away by Silicon Valley sprawl. Although the
area is important ecologically, it is not like the redwoods or the coast,
with beautiful visuals that engage people’s imaginations. The hills are
covered with grass interspersed with a few oak trees. Most of the year,
the grass is brown. Sweeney admits that it’s not very sexy. Even local
groups in the Silicon Valley area that were interested in protecting
open spaces weren’t paying attention to the brown hills. But, says
Sweeney, “We don’t go after stuff because it’s pretty. We go after it be-
cause it’s an ecologically important part of creation.”
    TNC named the oak savanna the Mount Hamilton Wilderness
(based on its highest peak, the site of a local observatory). Identifying
the area as a coherent landscape and naming it put it on the map for
local groups and policymakers. Before, Sweeney says, Silicon Valley
groups wanted to protect important areas close to their homes, but
they didn’t know where to start. “If you say, ‘There’s a really important
area to the east of Silicon Valley,’ it’s just not exciting, because it’s not
tangible. But when you say, ‘The Mount Hamilton Wilderness,’ their
interest perks up.”
    The Packard Foundation, a Silicon Valley institution created by
one of the founders of the Hewlett-Packard Company, provided a
large grant to protect the Mount Hamilton Wilderness. Other envi-
ronmental groups in the Bay Area started campaigning to preserve
the area. Sweeney says, “We’re always laughing now, because we see
other people’s documents and they’re talking about the Mount Ham-
ilton Wilderness. We say, ‘You know we made that up.’ ”
    People who live in cities tend to name and deﬁne their neighbor-
hoods: “the Castro,” “SoHo,” “Lincoln Park,” and so forth. These
names come to deﬁne an area and its traits. Neighborhoods have per-
sonalities. The Nature Conservancy created the same effect with its
landscapes. The Mount Hamilton Wilderness is not a set of acres; it’s
an eco-celebrity.
    This is not a story about land; it’s a story about abstraction. TNC
104                        M A D E TO S T I C K

avoided the trap of abstraction—saving 2 million acres per year—by
converting abstract blobs on a map into tangible landscapes. TNC
realized, wisely, that the context had grown more ambiguous, and the
solutions had grown more ambiguous, but that their messages could
not be allowed to grow more ambiguous. Concreteness is an indis-
pensable component of sticky ideas.

               Understanding Subtraction

What makes something “concrete”? If you can examine something
with your senses, it’s concrete. A V8 engine is concrete. “High-
performance” is abstract. Most of the time, concreteness boils down
to speciﬁc people doing speciﬁc things. In the “Unexpected” chap-
ter, we talked about Nordstrom’s world-class customer service.
“World-class customer service” is abstract. A Nordie ironing a cus-
tomer’s shirt is concrete.
    Concrete language helps people, especially novices, understand
new concepts. Abstraction is the luxury of the expert. If you’ve got to
teach an idea to a room full of people, and you aren’t certain what
they know, concreteness is the only safe language.
    To see this, we can start by studying math classrooms in Asia. We
know, from the news over the years, that East Asian children outper-
form American children in, well, just about everything (except the
consumption of fatty foods). This is especially evident in math. The
math skills of Americans fall behind those of Asians early—the gap is
apparent in the ﬁrst grade, and it widens throughout elementary
school.
    What are Asian schools doing differently? Our stereotype is that
these schools operate with almost robotic efﬁciency: Hours are long
and discipline is strict. We think of East Asian students as being less
“creative” somehow; we like to think they outperform our students
through rote mechanics and memorization. The truth, it turns out, is
almost exactly the opposite.
                               CONCRETE                                 105

    In 1993, a group of researchers studied ten schools in Japan, ten in
Taiwan, and twenty in the United States. In each school, they picked
two different math teachers to observe, and they observed four lessons
with each teacher. The researchers found that all the teachers used
rote recall quite a bit; it was standard procedure in at least half the les-
sons observed in every country. But other techniques varied greatly
among the three countries.
    For instance, consider this question by a Japanese teacher: “You
had 100 yen but then you bought a notebook for 70 yen. How much
money do you still have?” Or this question, posed by a teacher in Tai-
wan: “Originally there are three kids playing ball. Two more came
later, and then one more joined them. How many are playing now?”
As she talked, she drew stick ﬁgures on the board and wrote down the
equation 3 + 2 + 1.
    Notice that these teachers are explaining abstract mathematical
concepts by emphasizing things that are concrete and familiar—
buying school supplies and playing ball. Their explanations take ad-
vantage of preexisting schemas, a tactic we explored in the “Simple”
chapter. Teachers take an existing schema—the dynamics of a six-
person ball game—and overlay a new layer of abstraction.
    The researchers called this style of questioning Computing in
Context. It is pretty much the opposite of “rote recall.” And, contrary
to our stereotypes, it occurred about twice as much in Asia as it did in
the United States (61 percent of lessons versus 31 percent).
    In another case, a Japanese teacher placed on a desk 5 rows of 10
tiles each. Then she took away 3 rows of 10 tiles. She asked a student
how many tiles were left, and he gave the correct answer: 20. The
teacher then asked the students how they knew that this was a sub-
traction problem. This teacher provided her students with a visual
image of subtraction. Students could build an abstract concept—
“subtraction”—on a concrete foundation: 30 tiles being yanked away
from an original set of 50. The researchers coded questions like this
one as Conceptual Knowledge questions. This type of question was
106                        M A D E TO S T I C K

asked in 37 percent of lessons in Japan, 20 percent in Taiwan, but
only 2 percent in the United States.
    Using concreteness as a foundation for abstraction is not just good
for mathematical instruction; it is a basic principle of understanding.
Novices crave concreteness. Have you ever read an academic paper or
a technical article or even a memo and found yourself so ﬂummoxed
by the fancy abstract language that you were crying out for an example?
    Or maybe you’ve experienced the frustration of cooking from a
recipe that was too abstract: “Cook until the mixture reaches a hearty
consistency.” Huh? Just tell me how many minutes to stir! Show me a
picture of what it looks like! After we’ve cooked the dish a few times,
then the phrase “hearty consistency” might start to make sense. We
build a sensory image of what that phrase represents. But the ﬁrst
time it’s as meaningless as 3 + 2 + 1 would be to a three-year-old.
    This is how concreteness helps us understand—it helps us con-
struct higher, more abstract insights on the building blocks of our
existing knowledge and perceptions. Abstraction demands some
concrete foundation. Trying to teach an abstract principle without
concrete foundations is like trying to start a house by building a roof
in the air.

                  Concrete Is Memorable

Concrete ideas are easier to remember. Take individual words, for in-
stance. Experiments in human memory have shown that people are
better at remembering concrete, easily visualized nouns (“bicycle” or
“avocado”) than abstract ones (“justice” or “personality”).
    Naturally sticky ideas are stuffed full of concrete words and im-
ages—think of the Kentucky Fried Rat or the Kidney Heist’s ice-ﬁlled
bathtub. The Kidney Heist legend would have been far less sticky if
the man had woken up and found that someone had absconded with
his self-esteem.
                              CONCRETE                              107

    Yale researcher Eric Havelock studies tales that have been passed
down by word of mouth, such as the Iliad and the Odyssey. He notes
that these tales are characterized by lots of concrete actions, with few
abstractions. Why? The ancient Greeks certainly had no problem
with abstraction—this was the society that produced Plato and Aris-
totle, after all. Havelock believes that the stories evolved away from
abstraction over time. When they were passed along from generation
to generation, the more memorable concrete details survived and the
abstractions evaporated.
    Let’s skip to the modern world and another timeless and beautiful
domain of expression: accounting. Put yourself in the shoes of an ac-
counting professor who has to introduce accounting principles to col-
lege students. To a new student, accounting can seem bewilderingly
abstract—the income statement, the balance sheet, T-accounts, ac-
counts receivable, treasury stock. No people or sensory data in sight.
    As the teacher, how do you make accounting concepts vivid? Two
professors from Georgia State University, Carol Springer and Faye
Borthick, decided to try something radically different. In the fall of
2000, Springer and Borthick taught a semester of accounting using,
as a centerpiece, a semester-long case study. The case study followed
a new business launched by two imaginary college sophomores, Kris
and Sandy, at LeGrande State University.
    Kris and Sandy had an idea for a new product called Safe Night
Out (SNO), a device targeted at parents with teenagers who were old
enough to drive. Installed in the teenager’s car, the device would
record the route and speed of the car. For the ﬁrst time, parents could
conﬁrm whether their car was being driven responsibly.
    At this point you, as a student in introductory accounting, become
part of the story. Kris and Sandy are your friends, and they’ve heard
that you’re taking an accounting class. They need your help. They ask,
Is our business idea feasible? How many units would we have to sell in
order to pay for our tuition? You are given guidance on how to track
108                         M A D E TO S T I C K

down the costs of the relevant materials (GPS receivers, storage hard-
ware) and partnerships (how much it would cost to sell it on eBay).
    The semester-long Kris and Sandy soap opera revealed the role
that accounting plays in business life. Every accounting course de-
ﬁnes the distinction between ﬁxed and variable costs, but in the soap
opera this distinction wasn’t so much deﬁned as discovered. Kris and
Sandy have to pay some costs no matter what, such as the program-
ming expense for developing the product. Those are ﬁxed costs.
Other costs are incurred only when products are made or sold—the
cost of the materials or eBay’s commission, for example. Those are
variable costs. If your friends are pouring their tuition money into a
start-up business, those distinctions matter.
    The case study is an example of learning in context, similar to the
teachers in the Asian math classrooms. But in the math classrooms a
student might encounter 300 different examples over the course of a
semester. In the accounting class, students had one example that was
sufﬁciently rich to encompass a semester’s worth of material.
    As the semester progresses, you witness, from your hot seat as Kris
and Sandy’s accountant, the evolution of their business. A local court
approaches Kris and Sandy wanting to use the SNO device for its
parolees, but it wants to lease the device rather than buy it. How should
Kris and Sandy respond? Later, the business begins to grow rapidly, but
suddenly Kris and Sandy make a panicked call to you, having bounced
a check. They’ve been selling more units than ever, yet there’s no cash
in the bank. How is that possible? (This problem is faced by many start-
up businesses, and it introduces the difference between proﬁtability
and cash ﬂow.) The answer becomes clear to you only after you’ve
worked through a month of payment slips and eBay receipts.
    So, did the students learn better? At ﬁrst it was hard to say. The
changes to the course made it hard to compare ﬁnal exams directly
with those of previous years. Some students seemed more enthusias-
tic about the new course, but others groused because the case study
demanded a lot of time. Over time, however, the beneﬁts of the con-
                              CONCRETE                               109

crete case study became increasingly obvious. After experiencing the
case study, students with high GPAs were more likely to major in ac-
counting. The concreteness actually made the most capable students
want to become accountants.
    But the case study also had positive effects for regular students. In
the next accounting course—taken an average of two years later—the
ﬁrst section of the course built heavily on the concepts that students
were supposed to have learned in introductory accounting. Students
who had worked through the case study scored noticeably higher on
this ﬁrst exam. In fact, the difference in scores was particularly dra-
matic for students with a C average overall. Generally speaking, they
scored twelve points higher. And remember, this is two years after the
case study ended. Concreteness sticks.

              The Velcro Theory of Memory

What is it about concreteness that makes ideas stick? The answer lies
with the nature of our memories.
    Many of us have a sense that remembering something is a bit like
putting it in storage. To remember a story is to ﬁle it away in our cere-
bral ﬁling cabinets. There’s nothing wrong with that analogy. But the
surprising thing is that there may be completely different ﬁling cabi-
nets for different kinds of memories.
    You can actually test this idea for yourself. The following set of
sentences will ask you to remember various ideas. Spend ﬁve or ten
seconds lingering on each one—don’t rush through them. As you
move from one sentence to another, you’ll notice that it feels different
to remember different kinds of things.

   • Remember the capital of Kansas.
   • Remember the ﬁrst line of “Hey Jude” (or some other song
     that you know well).
   • Remember the Mona Lisa.
110                        M A D E TO S T I C K

      • Remember the house where you spent most of your child-
        hood.
      • Remember the deﬁnition of “truth.”
      • Remember the deﬁnition of “watermelon.”

    David Rubin, a cognitive psychologist at Duke University, uses
this exercise to illustrate the nature of memory. Each command to re-
member seems to trigger a different mental activity. Remembering
the capital of Kansas is an abstract exercise, unless you happen to live
in Topeka. By contrast, when you think about “Hey Jude,” you may
hear Paul McCartney’s voice and piano playing. (If the phrase “Hey
Jude” drew a blank, please exchange this book for a Beatles album.
You’ll be happier.)
    No doubt the Mona Lisa memory conjured a visual image of that
famously enigmatic smile. Remembering your childhood home
might have evoked a host of memories—smells, sounds, sights. You
might even have felt yourself running through your home, or re-
membering where your parents used to sit.
    The deﬁnition of “truth” may have been a bit harder to sum-
mon—you certainly have a sense of what “truth” means, but you
probably had no preformulated deﬁnition to pluck out of memory, as
with the Mona Lisa. You might have had to create a deﬁnition on the
ﬂy that seemed to ﬁt with your sense of what “truth” means.
    The deﬁnition of “watermelon” might also have involved some
mental gyrations. The word “watermelon” immediately evoked sense
memories—the striped green rind and red fruit, the sweet smell and
taste, the heft of a whole watermelon. Then you might have felt your
gears switch as you tried to encapsulate these sense memories into a
deﬁnition.
    Memory, then, is not like a single ﬁling cabinet. It is more like
Velcro. If you look at the two sides of Velcro material, you’ll see that
one is covered with thousands of tiny hooks and the other is covered
                               CONCRETE                               111

with thousands of tiny loops. When you press the two sides together,
a huge number of hooks get snagged inside the loops, and that’s what
causes Velcro to seal.
    Your brain hosts a truly staggering number of loops. The more
hooks an idea has, the better it will cling to memory. Your childhood
home has a gazillion hooks in your brain. A new credit card number
has one, if it’s lucky.
    Great teachers have a knack for multiplying the hooks in a partic-
ular idea. A teacher from Iowa named Jane Elliott once designed a
message so powerful—tapping into so many different aspects of emo-
tion and memory—that, twenty years later, her students still remem-
ber it vividly.

                   Brown Eyes, Blue Eyes

Martin Luther King, Jr., was assassinated on April 4, 1968. The next
day, Jane Elliott, an elementary-school teacher in Iowa, found herself
trying to explain his death to her classroom of third-graders. In the all-
white town of Riceville, Iowa, students were familiar with King but
could not understand who would want him dead, or why.
    Elliott said, “I knew it was time to deal with this in a concrete way,
because we’d talked about discrimination since the ﬁrst day of school.
But the shooting of Martin Luther King, one of our ‘Heroes of the
Month’ two months earlier, couldn’t be explained to little third-
graders in Riceville, Iowa.”
    She came to class the next day with a plan: She aimed to make
prejudice tangible to her students. At the start of class, she divided the
students into two groups: brown-eyed kids and blue-eyed kids. She
then made a shocking announcement: Brown-eyed kids were supe-
rior to blue-eyed kids—“They’re the better people in this room.” The
groups were separated: Blue-eyed kids were forced to sit at the back of
the classroom. Brown-eyed kids were told that they were smarter.
112                        M A D E TO S T I C K

They were given extra time at recess. The blue-eyed kids had to wear
special collars, so that everyone would know their eye color from a
distance. The two groups were not allowed to mix at recess.
    Elliott was shocked at how quickly the class was transformed. “I
watched those kids turn into nasty, vicious, discriminating third-
graders . . . it was ghastly,” she said. “Friendships seemed to dissolve
instantly, as brown-eyed kids taunted their blue-eyed former friends.
One brown-eyed student asked Elliott how she could be the teacher
“if you’ve got dem blue eyes.”
    At the start of class the following day, Elliott walked in and an-
nounced that she had been wrong. It was actually the brown-eyed
children who were inferior. This reversal of fortune was embraced in-
stantly. A shout of glee went up from the blue-eyed kids as they ran to
place their collars on their lesser, brown-eyed counterparts.
    On the day when they were in the inferior group, students de-
scribed themselves as sad, bad, stupid, and mean. “When we were
down,” one boy said, his voice cracking, “it felt like everything bad
was happening to us.” When they were on top, the students felt
happy, good, and smart.
    Even their performance on academic tasks changed. One of the
reading exercises was a phonics card pack that the kids were supposed
to go through as quickly as possible. The ﬁrst day, when the blue-eyed
kids were on the bottom, it took them 5.5 minutes. On the second
day, when they were on top, it took 2.5 minutes. “Why couldn’t you
go this fast yesterday?” Elliott asked. One blue-eyed girl said, “We had
those collars on. . . .” Another student chimed in, “We couldn’t stop
thinking about those collars.”
    Elliott’s simulation made prejudice concrete—brutally concrete.
It also had an enduring impact on the students’ lives. Studies con-
ducted ten and twenty years later showed that Elliott’s students were
signiﬁcantly less prejudiced than their peers who had not been
through the exercise.
    Students still remember the simulation vividly. A ﬁfteen-year re-
                              CONCRETE                               113

union of Elliott’s students broadcast on the PBS series Frontline re-
vealed how deeply it had moved them. Ray Hansen, remembering
the way his understanding changed from one day to the next, said, “It
was one of the most profound learning experiences I’ve ever had.”
Sue Ginder Rolland said, “Prejudice has to be worked out young or it
will be with you all your life. Sometimes I catch myself [discriminat-
ing], stop myself, think back to the third grade, and remember what it
was like to be put down.”
    Jane Elliott put hooks into the idea of prejudice. It would have
been easy for her to treat the idea of prejudice the way other class-
room ideas are treated—as an important but abstract bit of knowl-
edge, like the capital of Kansas or the deﬁnition of “truth.” She could
have treated prejudice as something to be learned, like the story of a
World War II battle. Instead, Elliott turned prejudice into an experi-
ence. Think of the “hooks” involved: The sight of a friend suddenly
sneering at you. The feel of a collar around your neck. The despair at
feeling inferior. The shock you get when you look at your own eyes in
the mirror. This experience put so many hooks into the students’
memories that, decades later, it could not be forgotten.

                 The Path to Abstraction:
              The Blueprint and the Machine

Jane Elliott’s simulation of prejudice is compelling evidence of the
power of concreteness. But if concreteness is so powerful, why do we
slip so easily into abstraction?
    The reason is simple: because the difference between an expert
and a novice is the ability to think abstractly. New jurors are struck by
lawyers’ personalities and factual details and courtroom rituals. Mean-
while, judges weigh the current case against the abstract lessons of past
cases and legal precedent. Biology students try to remember whether
reptiles lay eggs or not. Biology teachers think in terms of the grand
system of animal taxonomy.
114                         M A D E TO S T I C K

    Novices perceive concrete details as concrete details. Experts per-
ceive concrete details as symbols of patterns and insights that they
have learned through years of experience. And, because they are ca-
pable of seeing a higher level of insight, they naturally want to talk on
a higher level. They want to talk about chess strategies, not about
bishops moving diagonally.
    And here is where our classic villain, the Curse of Knowledge, in-
serts itself. A researcher named Beth Bechky studied a manufacturing
ﬁrm that designed and built the complicated machinery used to pro-
duce silicon chips. To build such machinery, the ﬁrm needed two
sets of skills: engineers who could create brilliant designs, and skilled
manufacturing people who could transform those designs into com-
plex physical machines.
    If the ﬁrm was to succeed, these two sets of people had to be able to
communicate smoothly. But, not surprisingly, they spoke different lan-
guages. The engineers tended to think abstractly—they spent their day
agonizing over drawings and blueprints. The manufacturing team, on
the other hand, tended to think on a physical level—they spent their
day building machines.
    What’s most revealing for the Curse of Knowledge is what hap-
pened when something went wrong on the manufacturing ﬂoor. The
manufacturing folks would sometimes run into a problem—something
didn’t ﬁt or perhaps wasn’t receiving enough power. The manufactur-
ers would bring the problem to the engineers, and the engineers would
immediately get to work. Speciﬁcally, they’d get to work ﬁxing their
drawings.
    For example, the manufacturing team might ﬁnd a part that didn’t
ﬁt on the machine. When the team showed the part to the engineers,
they wanted to pull out the blueprints and move things around on the
drawing. In other words, the engineers instinctively wanted to jump
to a higher level of abstraction.
    The engineers, Bechky found, made their drawings “increasingly
                             CONCRETE                              115

elaborate” in the hope that the enhanced drawings would clarify the
process for the manufacturers. Over time, the drawings became more
abstract, which further hampered communication.
    The engineers were behaving like American tourists who travel to
foreign countries and try to make themselves understood by speaking
English more slowly and loudly. They were suffering from the Curse
of Knowledge. They had lost the ability to imagine what it was like to
look at a technical drawing from the perspective of a nonexpert.
    The manufacturing people were thinking, Why don’t you just
come down to the factory ﬂoor and show me where the part should go?
And the engineering people were thinking, What do I need to do to
make the drawings better?
    The miscommunication has a quality that is familiar, no doubt, to
many readers who don’t work on silicon chip–making machinery. So
how do you ﬁx it? Should both parties learn greater empathy for the
other and, in essence, meet in the middle? Actually, no. The solution
is for the engineers to change their behavior. Why? As Bechky notes,
the physical machine was the most effective and relevant domain of
communication. Everyone understands the machines ﬂuently. There-
fore problems should be solved at the level of the machine.
    It’s easy to lose awareness that we’re talking like an expert. We
start to suffer from the Curse of Knowledge, like the tappers in the
“tappers and listeners” game. It can feel unnatural to speak con-
cretely about subject matter we’ve known intimately for years. But if
we’re willing to make the effort we’ll see the rewards: Our audience
will understand what we’re saying and remember it.
    The moral of this story is not to “dumb things down.” The manu-
facturing people faced complex problems and they needed smart an-
swers. Rather, the moral of the story is to ﬁnd a “universal language,”
one that everyone speaks ﬂuently. Inevitably, that universal language
will be concrete.
116                        M A D E TO S T I C K

             Concrete Allows Coordination

In the last chapter, we closed with two unexpected slogans that were
used to motivate and coordinate large groups of smart people. The slo-
gans were challenges to build a “pocketable radio” and to “put a man on
the moon within the decade.” Notice that these slogans are also pleas-
ingly concrete. It is doubtful that Japanese engineers were paralyzed
with uncertainty about their mission, or that much time was spent at
NASA quibbling about the meaning of “man,” “moon,” or “decade.”
    Concreteness makes targets transparent. Even experts need trans-
parency. Consider a software start-up whose goal is to build “the next
great search engine.” Within the start-up are two programmers with
nearly identical knowledge, working in neighboring cubes. To one
“the next great search engine” means completeness, ensuring that
the search engine returns everything on the Web that might be rele-
vant, no matter how obscure. To the other it means speed, ensuring
pretty good results very fast. Their efforts will not be fully aligned
until the goal is made concrete.
    When Boeing prepared to launch the design of the 727 passenger
plane in the 1960s, its managers set a goal that was deliberately con-
crete: The 727 must seat 131 passengers, ﬂy nonstop from Miami to
New York City, and land on Runway 4-22 at La Guardia. (The 4-22
runway was chosen for its length—less than a mile, which was much
too short for any of the existing passenger jets.) With a goal this con-
crete, Boeing effectively coordinated the actions of thousands of ex-
perts in various aspects of engineering or manufacturing. Imagine
how much harder it would have been to build a 727 whose goal was
to be “the best passenger plane in the world.”

The Ferraris Go to Disney World in the R & D Lab

Stone Yamashita Partners, a small consulting ﬁrm in San Francisco,
was founded by Robert Stone and Keith Yamashita, former Apple cre-
                              CONCRETE                               117

atives. Stone Yamashita is a master of using concrete techniques to help
organizations create change. “Almost everything we do is visceral and
visual,” Keith Yamashita says. The “product” of most consulting ﬁrms
is often a PowerPoint presentation. At Stone Yamashita, it’s much more
likely to be a simulation, an event, or a creative installation.
    Around 2002, Stone Yamashita was approached by Hewlett-
Packard (HP). HP’s top management team hoped to win a partner-
ship with Disney, and they asked Stone Yamashita to help prepare a
proposal that would highlight HP research, and show how it could
help Disney run its theme parks.
    HP, like many technology ﬁrms, generates great research in its lab-
oratories, but that research isn’t always translated into tangible physi-
cal products. Researchers get excited about pushing the boundaries of
a technology, making products that are complex and sophisticated,
while customers generally seek out products that are easy and reliable.
The desires of researchers and customers don’t always dovetail.
    The “presentation” that Stone Yamashita designed was an exhibit
that ﬁlled 6,000 square feet. Yamashita describes the gist: “We in-
vented a ﬁctitious family called the Ferraris, three generations of
them, and built an exhibit about their life and their visit to Disney
World.”
    Walking into the exhibit, you began in the Ferraris’ living room,
furnished with family photos. Each subsequent room followed the
Ferraris through various scenes of their Disney World vacation. HP
technology helped them buy tickets, sped their entry into the park,
and scheduled their reservations for dinner. Another bit of technol-
ogy helped them enjoy their favorite rides while minimizing waiting
time. Back inside their hotel room at the end of the day, there was a
ﬁnal twist: A digital picture frame had automatically downloaded a
picture of them as they rode a Disney World roller coaster.
    Stone Yamashita, working with HP’s engineers, turned a message
about the beneﬁts of collaboration—what could have been a Power-
Point presentation—into a living, breathing simulation. Stone Yama-
118                        M A D E TO S T I C K

shita put hooks into the idea of e-services. They took an abstract idea
and made it concrete with an intense sensory experience.
    Note that there were two different audiences for the exhibit. The
ﬁrst audience was Disney. Disney’s execs were the “novices”—they
needed to be shown, in tangible terms, what HP’s technology could
do for them. Then there were HP’s employees, particularly the engi-
neers. They were far from novices. Many engineers had been skepti-
cal about the value of Yamashita’s demos. Once the exhibit opened,
however, it produced tremendous enthusiasm within HP. It was ini-
tially intended to stay up long enough to make the Disney pitch, but,
because it was so popular, it remained for three or four months after-
ward. One observer said, “It became very viral in that others began to
ask, ‘Did you see that great thing that the labs team did? Did you
know that we could do this? Did you know that they did it in only
twenty-eight days?’ ”
    Concreteness helped this team of experts coordinate. A diverse
group of engineers, accustomed to contemplating difﬁcult technol-
ogy problems, suddenly came face-to-face with the Ferrari family. By
grappling with one family’s concrete needs—their tickets and reserva-
tions and photos—they did something remarkable: They took ab-
stract ideas from their research labs and turned them into a family
picture on a roller-coaster ride.
                             CONCRETE                                 119

        Concrete Brings Knowledge to Bear:
                   White Things

Grab a pencil and a piece of paper and ﬁnd a way to time yourself
(a watch, a spouse who likes to count, etc.). Here is a do-it-yourself
test on concreteness. You’ll do two brief ﬁfteen-second exercises.
When you’ve got your supplies ready, set your timer for ﬁfteen sec-
onds, then follow the instructions for Step 1 below.

   step 1 instructions:
   Write down as many things that are white in color as you can
      think of.

   stop. Reset your timer for ﬁfteen seconds. Turn the page for the
   instructions for Step 2.
120                          M A D E TO S T I C K

      step 2 instructions:
      Write down as many white things in your refrigerator as you can
         think of.

    Most people, remarkably, can list about as many white things
from their refrigerators as white anythings. This result is stunning be-
cause, well, our fridges don’t include a particularly large part of the
universe. Even people who list more white anythings often feel that
the refrigerator test is “easier.”
    Why does this happen? Because concreteness is a way of mobiliz-
ing and focusing your brain. For another example of this phenome-
non, consider these two statements: (1) Think of ﬁve silly things that
people have done in the world in the past ten years. (2) Think about
ﬁve silly things your child has done in the past ten years.
    Sure, this is a neat brain trick. But what value does it have? Con-
sider a situation where an entrepreneur used this neat brain trick to
earn a $4.5 million investment from a savvy and sophisticated group
of investors.

                  Kaplan and Go Computers

For an entrepreneur, having the chance to pitch a business idea to
local venture capitalists is a big deal, like a budding actor getting an
audition with an independent ﬁlm director. But having a chance to
pitch an idea to Kleiner Perkins—the most prestigious ﬁrm in Silicon
Valley—is more like a private one-on-one audition with Steven Spiel-
berg. You could walk out a star, or you could walk out having blown
the biggest chance of your life.
    And that’s why twenty-nine-year-old Jerry Kaplan was nervous as he
stood in the Kleiner Perkins ofﬁce in early 1987. His presentation
would start in about thirty minutes. Kaplan was a former researcher at
Stanford who had quit to work at Lotus in its early days. Lotus, with its
bestselling Lotus 1-2-3 spreadsheet, became a stock market darling.
                              CONCRETE                                  121

Now Kaplan was ready for the next challenge. He had a vision for a
smaller, more portable generation of personal computers.
    He hung around outside the conference room as the previous
entrepreneur ﬁnished his presentation. Watching the other entrepre-
neur, he felt underprepared. As he observed, his nervousness advanced
toward panic. The other entrepreneur wore a dark pin-striped suit with
a red power tie. Kaplan had on a sport jacket with an open-collared
shirt. The other entrepreneur was projecting an impressive color graph
onto the whiteboard. Kaplan was carrying a maroon portfolio with a
blank pad of paper inside. This did not bode well.
    Kaplan had thought that he was showing up for an informal “get
to know you” session, but, standing there, he realized how naive he’d
been. He had “no business plan, no slides, no charts, no ﬁnancial
projections, no prototypes.” Worst of all, the überprepared entrepre-
neur in the boardroom was facing a skeptical audience that now pep-
pered him with tough questions.
    When Kaplan’s turn arrived, one of the partners introduced him.
Kaplan took a deep breath and started: “I believe that a new type of
computer, more like a notebook than a typewriter, and operated by a
pen rather than a keyboard, will serve the needs of professionals like
ourselves when we are away from our desks. We will use them to take
notes, send and receive messages through cellular telephone links;
look up addresses, phone numbers, price lists, and inventories; do
spreadsheet calculations; and ﬁll out order forms.”
    He covered the required technology, highlighting the major un-
known: whether a machine could reliably recognize handwriting and
convert it into commands. Kaplan recounts what happened next:

   My audience seemed tense. I couldn’t tell whether they were an-
   noyed by my lack of preparation or merely concentrating on what
   I was saying. . . . Thinking I had already blown it, and therefore
   had little to lose, I decided to risk some theatrics.
      “If I were carrying a portable PC right now, you would sure as
122                            M A D E TO S T I C K

      hell know it. You probably didn’t realize that I am holding a
      model of the future of computing right here in my hands.”
          I tossed my maroon leather case in the air. It sailed to the cen-
      ter of the table where it landed with a loud clap.
          “Gentlemen, here is a model of the next step in the computer
      revolution.”
          For a moment, I thought this ﬁnal act of drama might get me
      thrown out of the room. They were sitting in stunned silence, star-
      ing at my plain leather folder—which lay motionless on the
      table—as though it were suddenly going to come to life. Brook
      Byers, the youthful-looking but long-time partner in the ﬁrm,
      slowly reached out and touched the portfolio as if it were some
      sort of talisman. He asked the ﬁrst question.
          “Just how much information could you store in something
      like this?”
          John Doerr [another partner] answered before I could re-
      spond. “It doesn’t matter. Memory chips are getting smaller and
      cheaper each year and the capacity will probably double for the
      same size and price annually.”
          Someone else chimed in. “But bear in mind, John, that unless
      you translate the handwriting efﬁciently, it’s likely to take up a lot
      more room.” The speaker was Vinod Khosla, the founding CEO
      of Sun Microsystems, who helped the partnership evaluate tech-
      nology deals.

    Kaplan said that from that point on he hardly had to speak, as part-
ners and associates traded questions and insights that ﬂeshed out his
proposal. Periodically, he said, someone would reach out to touch or
examine his portfolio. “It had been magically transformed from a sta-
tionery-store accessory into a symbol of the future of technology.”
    A few days later, Kaplan got a call from Kleiner Perkins. The part-
ners had decided to back the idea. Their investment valued Kaplan’s
nonexistent company at $4.5 million.
                               CONCRETE                                    123

    What transformed this meeting from a grill session—with an anx-
ious entrepreneur in the hot seat—to a brainstorming session? The
maroon portfolio. The portfolio presented a challenge to the board-
room participants—a way of focusing their thoughts and bringing
their existing knowledge to bear. It changed their attitude from reac-
tive and critical to active and creative.
    The presence of the portfolio made it easier for the venture capi-
talists to brainstorm, in the same way that focusing on “white things
in our refrigerator” made it easier for us to brainstorm. When they
saw the size of the portfolio, it sparked certain questions: How much
memory could you ﬁt in that thing? Which PC components will
shrink in the next few years, and which won’t? What new technology
would have to be invented to make it feasible? This same process was
sparked in Sony’s Japanese engineering team by the concept of a
“pocketable radio.”
    Concreteness creates a shared “turf” on which people can collab-
orate. Everybody in the room feels comfortable that they’re tackling
the same challenge. Even experts—even the Kleiner Perkins venture
capitalists, the rock stars of the technology world—beneﬁt from con-
crete talk that puts them on common ground.

                               C L I N I C

             Oral Rehydration Therapy Saves
                    Children’s Lives!

   THE SITUATION: Each year more than a million children in countries

   around the world die from dehydration caused by diarrhea. This
   problem can be prevented, at very low cost, by getting kids the right
   kind of ﬂuids. How do you get people invested in this idea?

                                 • • •
124                             M A D E TO S T I C K

      MESSAGE 1: Here’s an explanation from PSI, a nonproﬁt group that

      addresses health problems in developing countries:
         Diarrhea is one of the leading killers of young children in devel-
      oping countries, causing over 1.5 million child deaths annually. Diar-
      rhea itself is not the cause of death, but rather dehydration, the loss
      of body ﬂuid. Approximately three quarters of the body is composed
      of water, and if ﬂuid loss exceeds ten percent of total body ﬂuid, vital
      organs collapse, followed by death. If an episode is severe, as with
      cholera, death can occur within just eight hours.
         To prevent life-threatening dehydration it is necessary to increase
      liquid intake in quantities sufﬁcient to replenish the ﬂuids and elec-
      trolytes lost with diarrhea. The best liquid for this purpose is a blend
      of electrolytes, sugar, and water, known as oral rehydration salts.
      ORS restores body ﬂuid and electrolytes more rapidly than any other
      liquid, and does so even when the intestinal wall is compromised by
      disease.

      COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 1: Quick: How solvable is this problem? Sup-

      pose you were a health ofﬁcial in a developing nation. What would
      you do tomorrow to start saving kids?
         To be fair, this message appears on a Web page that describes
      what PSI has been doing to solve this problem. The text doesn’t
      necessarily reﬂect how the organization might approach decision-
      makers to persuade them to act. The information is written in lan-
      guage that creates credibility; there is lots of scientiﬁc language and
      exposition. If the problem sounds too complex, however, that could
      deter people from trying to solve it.

                                     • • •
      MESSAGE 2: This message is from James Grant, who was the director

      of UNICEF for many years. Grant always traveled with a packet ﬁlled
                              CONCRETE                                       125

with one teaspoon of salt and eight teaspoons of sugar—the ingredi-
ents for Oral Rehydration Therapy (ORT) when mixed with a liter of
water. When he met with the prime ministers of developing countries,
he would take out his packet of salt and sugar and say, “Do you know
that this costs less than a cup of tea and it can save hundreds of thou-
sands of children’s lives in your country?”

COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 2:        Quick: How solvable is this problem?
What are you going to do tomorrow to start saving these children’s
lives? Grant’s message brings you to the table, helps you bring your
knowledge to bear. Maybe you’re brainstorming ways of getting
salt/sugar packets to schools. Maybe you’re thinking about publicity
campaigns to teach mothers the right ratio of salt and sugar.
   Grant is clearly a master of making ideas stick. He brings out a
concrete prop and starts with an attention-grabbing unexpected con-
trast: This packet costs less than a cup of tea, but it can have a real
impact. Prime ministers spend their time thinking about elaborate,
complex social problems—building infrastructure, constructing hos-
pitals, maintaining a healthy environment—and suddenly here’s a
bag of salt and sugar that can save hundreds of thousands of chil-
dren.
   Grant’s message does sacriﬁce the statistics and the scientiﬁc de-
scription that add credibility to the PSI message. But, as the director of
UNICEF, he had enough credibility to keep people from questioning
his facts. So Grant left the (uncontested) factual battle behind and
fought the motivational battle. His bag of salt and sugar is the equiva-
lent of Kaplan’s maroon portfolio in the venture-capital presentation: It
helps the members of the audience bring their expertise to the prob-
lem. You can’t see it and not start brainstorming about the possibilities.
126                             M A D E TO S T I C K

                               S C O R E C A R D

                 Checklist          Message 1          Message 2
                 Simple                  -                  
                 Unexpected              -                  
                 Concrete                -                  
                 Credible                                  -
                 Emotional                                 
                 Story                   -                  -

      PUNCH LINE : This Clinic is one of our favorite before-and-after exam-

      ples in the book, because it shows how powerful a concrete idea can
      be. The moral is to ﬁnd some way to invite people to the table, to help
      them bring their knowledge to bear. Here, a prop works better than a
      scientiﬁc description.

                         Making Ideas Concrete

How do we move toward concrete ideas for our own messages? We
might ﬁnd our own decisions easier to make if they are guided by the
needs of speciﬁc people: our readers, our students, our customers.
   General Mills is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of con-
sumer products. Its brands include Pillsbury, Cheerios, Green Giant,
Betty Crocker, Chex, and many others. One of the largest brands in
the company, from a sales perspective, is Hamburger Helper. Melissa
Studzinski, a twenty-eight-year-old from Michigan, joined General
Mills in 2004 as Hamburger Helper’s brand manager.
   When she joined the team, Hamburger Helper had been in a
decade-long slump. The CEO, frustrated by the decline, announced
that his number one goal for 2005 was to ﬁx and grow the Hamburger
                              CONCRETE                               127

Helper brand. Studzinski, the newest person on the team, was eager
to tackle the challenge.
    When she started the job, she was given three huge binders full of
data and stats: sales and volume data, advertising-strategy briefs, prod-
uct information, and market research on the brand’s customers. The
binders were difﬁcult to pick up, let alone absorb into memory. She
called them the “death binders.”
    A few months later, Studzinski’s team decided to put the data aside
and try something new. They made plans to send members of the
Hamburger Helper team—marketing, advertising, and R & D staffers
—out into the homes of Hamburger Helper customers. The idea was
known informally as “Fingertips,” because the General Mills employ-
ees needed to have a picture of the brand’s customers at their ﬁngertips.
    A call went out for mothers (the predominant customers of Ham-
burger Helper) who were willing to let strangers come into their
homes and gawk at them while they cooked. The team visited two to
three dozen homes. Studzinski visited three homes, and the experi-
ence stuck with her. “I had read and I could recite all the data about
our customers,” she says. “I knew their demographics by heart. But it
was a very different experience to walk into a customer’s home and
experience a little bit of her life. I’ll never forget one woman, who
had a toddler on her hip while she was mixing up dinner on the stove.
We know that ‘convenience’ is an important attribute of our product,
but it’s a different thing to see the need for convenience ﬁrsthand.”
    Most of all, Studzinski learned that moms and their kids really
valued predictability. Hamburger Helper had eleven different pasta
shapes, but kids didn’t care about different shapes. What they did care
about was ﬂavor, and moms just wanted to buy the same predictable ﬂa-
vor their kids wouldn’t reject. But Hamburger Helper had more than
thirty different ﬂavors, and moms struggled to ﬁnd their favorites among
the massive grocery-store displays. Food and beverage companies
constantly push to develop new ﬂavors and packages, but Studzinski
needed to resist this push. “Moms saw new ﬂavors as risky,” she says.
128                            M A D E TO S T I C K

    Using this concrete information about moms and kids, the team
convinced a diverse collection of people across the organization—in
groups ranging from supply chain and manufacturing to ﬁnance—
to simplify the product line. According to Studzinski, the cost savings
were “huge,” yet moms were happier because it was easier to ﬁnd their
families’ favorites on grocery stores shelves. The insight to simplify the
product line—along with other key insights concerning pricing and
advertising—sparked a turnaround for the brand. At the end of ﬁscal
year 2005, Hamburger Helper’s sales had increased 11 percent.
    Studzinski says, “Now when I’ve got a decision to make about the
brand, I think of the women I met. I wonder what they would do if they
were in my shoes. And it’s amazing how helpful it is to think that way.”

    he same philosophy is just as useful for ideas that are more tran-
T   scendent. The Saddleback Church is a very successful church in
a suburb of Irvine, California, that has grown to more than 50,000
members. Over the years, the church’s leaders have created a de-
tailed picture of the kind of person they’re trying to reach. They call
him “Saddleback Sam.” Here’s how Rick Warren, the minister of the
Saddleback Church, describes him:

      Saddleback Sam is the typical unchurched man who lives in our
      area. His age is late thirties or early forties. He has a college de-
      gree and may have an advanced degree. . . . He is married to Sad-
      dleback Samantha, and they have two kids, Steve and Sally.
          Surveys show that Sam likes his job, he likes where he lives,
      and he thinks he’s enjoying life more now than he was ﬁve years
      ago. He’s self-satisﬁed, even smug, about his station in life. He’s
      either a professional, a manager, or a successful entrepreneur.
          . . . Another important characteristic of Sam is that he’s skepti-
      cal of what he calls “organized” religion. He’s likely to say, “I be-
      lieve in Jesus. I just don’t like organized religion.”
                               CONCRETE                               129

The proﬁle goes into much greater depth: Sam and Samantha’s tastes
in pop culture, their preferences about social events, and so on.
    What does “Saddleback Sam” accomplish for church leaders?
Sam forces them to view their decisions through a different lens. Say
someone proposes a telemarketing campaign to local community
members. It sounds as if it has great potential to reach new people.
But the leaders know from their research that Sam hates telemar-
keters, so the idea is scratched.
    And thinking about Saddleback Sam and Samantha isn’t limited
to church leaders. There are hundreds of small ministries at the Sad-
dleback Church: grade school classes, Mother’s Day Out programs, a
men’s basketball league. All are led by volunteer members who don’t
receive day-to-day direction from paid church staff. But these diverse
programs work together because people throughout the church know
whom they’re trying to reach. “Most of our members would have no
trouble describing Sam,” Warren says.
    By making Saddleback Sam and Samantha a living, breathing,
concrete presence in the minds of the members of the Saddleback
Church, the church has managed to reach 50,000 real Sams and
Samanthas.
    Of the six traits of stickiness that we review in this book, concrete-
ness is perhaps the easiest to embrace. It may also be the most effec-
tive of the traits.
    To be simple—to ﬁnd our core message—is quite difﬁcult. (It’s
certainly worth the effort, but let’s not kid ourselves that it’s easy.)
Crafting our ideas in an unexpected way takes a fair amount of effort
and applied creativity. But being concrete isn’t hard, and it doesn’t re-
quire a lot of effort. The barrier is simply forgetfulness—we forget
that we’re slipping into abstractspeak. We forget that other people
don’t know what we know. We’re the engineers who keep ﬂipping
back to our drawings, not noticing that the assemblers just want us to
follow them down to the factory ﬂoor.
                           C H A P T E R   4

                   CREDIBLE

            ver the course of a lifetime, one person in ten will develop

O           an ulcer. Duodenal ulcers, the most common type, are al-
            most never fatal, but they are extremely painful. For a long
time, the cause of ulcers was a mystery. Conventional wisdom held
that ulcers developed when surplus acid built up in the stomach, eat-
ing through the stomach wall. Such surplus acid could be caused, it
was thought, by stress, spicy foods, or lots of alcohol. Ulcer treatments
traditionally focused on mitigating the painful symptoms, since there
was no clear way to “cure” an ulcer.
    In the early 1980s, two medical researchers from Perth, Australia,
made an astonishing discovery: Ulcers are caused by bacteria. The re-
searchers, Barry Marshall and Robin Warren, identiﬁed a tiny spiral-
shaped type of bacteria as the culprit. (It would later be named
Helicobacter pylori, or H. pylori.) The signiﬁcance of this discovery
was enormous: If ulcers were caused by bacteria, they could be cured.
In fact, they could be cured within a matter of days by a simple treat-
ment with antibiotics.
    The medical world, however, did not rejoice. There were no cele-
brations for Marshall and Warren, who had almost single-handedly
                               CREDIBLE                              131

improved the health prospects of several hundred million human be-
ings. The reason for the lack of acclaim was simple: No one believed
them.
     There were several problems with the bacteria story. The ﬁrst
problem was common sense. The acid in the stomach is potent
stuff—it can, obviously, eat through a thick steak, and it’s (less obvi-
ously) strong enough to dissolve a nail. It was ludicrous to think that
bacteria could survive in such an environment. It would be like stum-
bling across an igloo in the Sahara.
     The second problem was the source. At the time of the discovery,
Robin Warren was a staff pathologist at a hospital in Perth; Barry Mar-
shall was a thirty-year-old internist in training, not even a doctor yet.
The medical community expects important discoveries to come from
Ph.D.s at research universities or professors at large, world-class med-
ical centers. Internists do not cure diseases that affect 10 percent of
the world’s population.
     The ﬁnal problem was the location. A medical researcher in Perth
is like a physicist from Mississippi. Science is science, but, thanks to
basic human snobbery, we tend to think it will emerge from some
places but not others.
     Marshall and Warren could not even get their research paper ac-
cepted by a medical journal. When Marshall presented their ﬁndings
at a professional conference, the scientists snickered. One of the re-
searchers who heard one of his presentations commented that he
“simply didn’t have the demeanor of a scientist.”
     To be fair to the skeptics, they had a reasonable argument: Mar-
shall and Warren’s evidence was based on correlation, not causation.
Almost all of the ulcer patients seemed to have H. pylori. Unfortu-
nately, there were also people who had H. pylori but no ulcer. And, as
for proving causation, the researchers couldn’t very well dose a bunch
of innocent people with bacteria to see whether they sprouted ulcers.
     By 1984, Marshall’s patience had run out. One morning he
132                        M A D E TO S T I C K

skipped breakfast and asked his colleagues to meet him in the lab.
While they watched in horror, he chugged a glass ﬁlled with about a
billion H. pylori. “It tasted like swamp water,” he said.
    Within a few days, Marshall was experiencing pain, nausea, and
vomiting—the classic symptoms of gastritis, the early stage of an
ulcer. Using an endoscope, his colleagues found that his stomach lin-
ing, previously pink and healthy, was now red and inﬂamed. Like a
magician, Marshall then cured himself with a course of antibiotics
and bismuth (the active ingredient in Pepto-Bismol).
    Even after this dramatic demonstration, the battle wasn’t over.
Other scientists quibbled with the demonstration. Marshall had
cured himself before he developed a full-blown ulcer, they argued, so
maybe he had just generated ulcer symptoms rather than a genuine
ulcer. But Marshall’s demonstration gave a second wind to supporters
of the bacteria theory, and subsequent research amassed more and
more evidence in its favor.
    In 1994, ten years later, the National Institutes of Health ﬁnally
endorsed the idea that antibiotics were the preferred treatment for ul-
cers. Marshall and Warren’s research contributed to an important
theme in modern medicine: that bacteria and viruses cause more dis-
eases than we would think. It is now known that cervical cancer is
caused by the contagious human papillomavirus, or HPV. Certain
types of heart disease have been linked to cytomegalovirus, a com-
mon virus that infects about two thirds of the population.
    In the fall of 2005, Marshall and Warren received the Nobel Prize
in medicine for their work. These two men had a brilliant, Nobel-
worthy, world-changing insight. So why did Marshall have to poison
himself to get people to believe him?

                     Finding Credibility

Let’s pose the question in the broadest possible terms: What makes
people believe ideas? How’s that for an ambitious question? Let’s start
                               CREDIBLE                              133

with the obvious answers. We believe because our parents or our
friends believe. We believe because we’ve had experiences that led us
to our beliefs. We believe because of our religious faith. We believe
because we trust authorities.
    These are powerful forces—family, personal experience, faith.
And, thankfully, we have no control over the way these forces affect
people. We can’t route our memos through people’s mothers to add
credibility. We can’t construct a PowerPoint presentation that will
nullify people’s core beliefs.
    If we’re trying to persuade a skeptical audience to believe a new
message, the reality is that we’re ﬁghting an uphill battle against a
lifetime of personal learning and social relationships. It would seem
that there’s nothing much we can do to affect what people believe.
But if we’re skeptical about our ability to affect belief, we merely have
to look at naturally sticky ideas, because some of them persuade us to
believe some pretty incredible things.
    Around 1999, an e-mail message spread over the Internet, for-
warded from person to person, claiming that shipments of bananas
from Costa Rica were infected with necrotizing fasciitis, otherwise
known as ﬂesh-eating bacteria. People were warned not to purchase
bananas for the next three weeks, and urged to seek medical atten-
tion!!! if they contracted a rash after eating a banana. The e-mail also
warned, “The skin infection from necrotizing fasciitis is very painful
and eats two to three centimeters of ﬂesh per hour. Amputation is
likely, death is possible.” It claimed that the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration (FDA) was reluctant to issue a general warning because it
feared a nationwide panic. (One would think that disappearing cen-
timeters of ﬂesh might be sufﬁcient to cause a panic, even in the ab-
sence of the FDA’s response.) This surprising message was attributed
to the Manheim Research Institute.
    This bizarre rumor spread at least in part because it had an air of
authority. It was circulated by the Manheim Research Institute! And
the Food and Drug Administration knew about the problem! The
134                         M A D E TO S T I C K

Manheim Research Institute and the FDA are invoked as credibility-
boosters. Their authority makes us think twice about what would oth-
erwise be some pretty incredible statements: Necrotizing fasciitis
consumes three centimeters of ﬂesh per hour? If that’s true, why isn’t
the story on the evening news?
   Evidently, someone realized that the rumor’s credibility could be
improved. Later versions added, “This message has been veriﬁed by
the Centers for Disease Control.” If the rumor circulated long
enough, no doubt it would eventually be “approved by the Dalai
Lama” and “heartily endorsed by the Security Council.”

      s the contaminated bananas show, authorities are a reliable
A     source of credibility for our ideas. When we think of authorities
who can add credibility, we tend to think of two kinds of people. The
ﬁrst kind is the expert—the kind of person whose wall is covered with
framed credentials: Oliver Sachs for neuroscience, Alan Greenspan
for economics, or Stephen Hawking for physics.
    Celebrities and other aspirational ﬁgures make up the second
class of “authorities.” Why do we care that Michael Jordan likes
McDonald’s? Certainly he is not a certiﬁed nutritionist or a world-
class gourmet. We care because we want to be like Mike, and if Mike
likes McDonald’s, so do we. If Oprah likes a book, it makes us more
interested in that book. We trust the recommendations of people
whom we want to be like.
    If you have access to the endorsement of Stephen Hawking or
Michael Jordan—renowned experts or celebrities—skip this part of
the chapter. As for the rest of us, whom can we call on? Can we ﬁnd
external sources of credibility that don’t involve celebrities or ex-
perts?
    The answer, surprisingly, is yes. We can tap the credibility of anti-
authorities. One antiauthority was a woman named Pam Lafﬁn.
                              CREDIBLE                             135

              Pam Laffin, the Antiauthority

Pam Lafﬁn was the star of a series of antismoking TV ads that were
broadcast in the mid-1990s. Lafﬁn is not a celebrity and she’s not a
health expert. She’s a smoker.
    At the time, Lafﬁn was a twenty-nine-year-old mother of two. She
had started smoking at age ten and had developed emphysema by
age twenty-four. She’d suffered a failed lung transplant.
    Greg Connolly, the director of tobacco control for the Massachu-
setts Department of Public Health (MDPH), was in charge of designing
a public-service campaign against smoking. He became aware of Pam
Lafﬁn and asked her to share her story with the public. She agreed.
    Connolly said, “What we’ve learned from previous campaigns is
that telling stories using real people is the most compelling way.” The
MDPH ﬁlmed a series of thirty-second spots, broadcast during hip
shows such as Ally McBeal and Dawson’s Creek. The spots were bru-
tal. They showed Lafﬁn battling to live while slowly suffocating be-
cause of her failing lungs. The TV audience watched her enduring
an invasive bronchoscopy—a procedure in which a tube with a cam-
era at the end is inserted through the mouth and pushed into the
lungs. The spots showed the nasty surgical scars on her back.
    In another spot, featuring photos of Lafﬁn as a child and as an
adult, she talks about how her emphysema left her with a “fat face”
and “a hump on my neck.” She said, “I started smoking to look older
and I’m sorry to say it worked.”
    The spots were difﬁcult to watch, and contrasted jarringly with the
light soap-opera fare of shows like Dawson’s Creek. “We have no com-
punction at all about shocking smokers into waking up,” Connolly said.
    Lafﬁn became a heroine of the antismoking movement. She was
the subject of an MTV documentary. The Centers for Disease Con-
trol features her story in an antismoking Web campaign and a twenty-
minute educational video titled I Can’t Breathe.
136                        M A D E TO S T I C K

   She died in November 2000 at the age of thirty-one, three weeks
before she was scheduled for a second lung transplant.

       fter hearing Lafﬁn’s story you’re probably not surprised that she
A      was an effective spokeswoman. There’s no question that she
knew from personal experience what she was talking about. She had
a powerful tale to tell.
    Another example of drawing credibility from antiauthorities
comes from the Doe Fund in New York City, an organization that
takes homeless men—the John Does of our society—and turns them
into productive citizens through counseling, drug rehabilitation,
and, most important, job training. A few years ago, some representa-
tives from a grant organization—potential ﬁnancial supporters—
were going to visit the ofﬁces of the Doe Fund. The Doe Fund sent a
driver, Dennis, to pick them up and drive them to the home ofﬁce.
    Dennis had been homeless before he turned to the Doe Fund for
help. During the forty-ﬁve-minute car trip, Dennis shared his story
with the grant representatives. One commented, “We weren’t just sit-
ting around listening to a bunch of directors telling us how effective
their services are; Dennis was the best ambassador that the Doe Fund
could provide—he was living proof.” The Doe Fund also uses this
principle internally. Every homeless man who enters the program is
matched with a mentor who, two years before, was in the same situa-
tion.
    It’s worth reminding ourselves that it wasn’t obvious that Lafﬁn or
Dennis would be effective authorities. Thirty years ago, an antismok-
ing campaign like Lafﬁn’s would probably not have happened. In-
stead, the Surgeon General would have given us a stern lecture on
the dangers of smoking. Or Burt Reynolds would have extolled the
virtues of a smoke-free life.
    A citizen of the modern world, constantly inundated with mes-
sages, learns to develop skepticism about the sources of those mes-
                                CREDIBLE                               137

sages. Who’s behind these messages? Should I trust them? What do
they have to gain if I believe them?
   A commercial claiming that a new shampoo makes your hair
bouncier has less credibility than hearing your best friend rave about
how a new shampoo made her own hair bouncier. Well, duh. The
company wants to sell you shampoo. Your friend doesn’t, so she gets
more trust points. The takeaway is that it can be the honesty and trust-
worthiness of our sources, not their status, that allows them to act as au-
thorities. Sometimes antiauthorities are even better than authorities.

                     The Power of Details

We don’t always have an external authority who can vouch for our
message; most of the time our messages have to vouch for themselves.
They must have “internal credibility.” Of course, internal credibility
frequently depends on what topic we’re discussing: A credible math
proof looks different from a credible movie review. But, surprisingly,
there are some general principles for establishing internal credibility.
To see these principles in action, we can again turn to urban legends.
    The Boyfriend’s Death is a famous urban legend that begins with
a couple heading out on a date in the boyfriend’s car. The car runs
out of gas under a tree on a deserted road. The girl suspects that the
guy is faking in order to make out with her, but soon she realizes
they’re really stuck. The boyfriend decides to walk to the nearest
house for help, and the girl stays behind. He has been gone for a long
time—it feels like hours—and the girl is frightened by a creepy
scratching coming from the roof of the car, possibly the scrapings of a
low-hanging tree branch. After several hours of anxious waiting, the
girl gets out of the car to discover—cue the horror music!—her
boyfriend, murdered and hanging from the tree above the car. His
toes scrape the roof as he swings in the wind.
    When people pass this legend along, they always add particular
details. It’s always set in a speciﬁc location, which varies when it is
138                         M A D E TO S T I C K

told in different parts of the country: “It happened right off Farm
Road 121”; “It happened right on top of that bluff over Lake Travis.”
An expert on folk legends, Jan Brunvand, says that legends “acquire a
good deal of their credibility and effect from their localized details.”
    A person’s knowledge of details is often a good proxy for her expert-
ise. Think of how a history buff can quickly establish her credibility by
telling an interesting Civil War anecdote. But concrete details don’t
just lend credibility to the authorities who provide them; they lend
credibility to the idea itself. The Civil War anecdote, with lots of inter-
esting details, is credible in anyone’s telling. By making a claim tangi-
ble and concrete, details make it seem more real, more believable.

      Jurors and the Darth Vader Toothbrush

In 1986, Jonathan Shedler and Melvin Manis, researchers at the Uni-
versity of Michigan, created an experiment to simulate a trial. Sub-
jects were asked to play the role of jurors and were given the transcript
of a (ﬁctitious) trial to read. The jurors were asked to assess the ﬁtness
of a mother, Mrs. Johnson, and to decide whether her seven-year-old
son should remain in her care.
    The transcript was constructed to be closely balanced: There were
eight arguments against Mrs. Johnson and eight arguments for Mrs.
Johnson. All the jurors heard the same arguments. The only difference
was the level of detail in those arguments. In one experimental group,
all the arguments that supported Mrs. Johnson had some vivid detail,
whereas the arguments against her had no extra details; they were pal-
lid by comparison. The other group heard the opposite combination.
    As an example, one argument in Mrs. Johnson’s favor said: “Mrs.
Johnson sees to it that her child washes and brushes his teeth before
bedtime.” In the vivid form, the argument added a detail: “He uses a
Star Wars toothbrush that looks like Darth Vader.”
    An argument against Mrs. Johnson was: “The child went to school
with a badly scraped arm which Mrs. Johnson had not cleaned or at-
                               CREDIBLE                               139

tended to. The school nurse had to clean the scrape.” The vivid form
added the detail that, as the nurse was cleaning the scrape, she spilled
Mercurochrome on herself, staining her uniform red.
    The researchers carefully tested the arguments with and without
vivid details to ensure that they had the same perceived impor-
tance—the details were designed to be irrelevant to the judgment of
Mrs. Johnson’s worthiness. It mattered that Mrs. Johnson didn’t at-
tend to the scraped arm; it didn’t matter that the nurse’s uniform got
stained in the process.
    But even though the details shouldn’t have mattered, they did. Ju-
rors who heard the favorable arguments with vivid details judged
Mrs. Johnson to be a more suitable parent (5.8 out of 10) than did ju-
rors who heard the unfavorable arguments with vivid details (4.3 out
of 10). The details had a big impact.
    We can take comfort, perhaps, in the fact that the swing wasn’t
more dramatic. (If the mother’s ﬁtness had dropped from eight to
two, we might have had to worry a bit about our justice system.) But
the jurors did make different judgments based on irrelevant vivid de-
tails. So why did the details make a difference? They boosted the
credibility of the argument. If I can mentally see the Darth Vader
toothbrush, it’s easier for me to picture the boy diligently brushing his
teeth in the bathroom, which in turn reinforces the notion that Mrs.
Johnson is a good mother.

       hat we should learn from urban legends and the Mrs. Johnson
W      trial is that vivid details boost credibility. But what should also
be added is that we need to make use of truthful, core details. We
need to identify details that are as compelling and human as the
“Darth Vader toothbrush” but more meaningful—details that sym-
bolize and support our core idea.
   In 2004, two Stanford Business School professors held a workshop
with arts organizations in Washington, D.C. One exercise was de-
140                        M A D E TO S T I C K

signed to make the arts leaders focus on the enduring principles of
their organizations, the principles they would not compromise under
any circumstances. One organization at the workshop was the Liz
Lerman Dance Exchange (LLDE), “a company of dance artists that
creates, performs, teaches, and engages people in making art.” At the
workshop, the leaders from the LLDE maintained that one of their
core values was “diversity.”
    “Come on,” scoffed one of the professors, suspecting an exaggera-
tion. “Everyone claims that they value diversity, but you’re a dance
company. You’re probably ﬁlled with a bunch of twenty-ﬁve-year-old
dancers, all of them tall and thin. Some of them are probably people
of color, but is that diversity?” Other people in the audience, unfa-
miliar with the LLDE, nodded at this skeptical response.
    Peter DiMuro, the artistic director of the LLDE, responded with an
example. “As a matter of fact,” he said, “the longest-term member of
our company is a seventy-three-year-old man named Thomas Dwyer.
He came to the LLDE after a full career working for the U.S. govern-
ment when he retired in 1988, and had no previous dance experience.
He has now been with the LLDE for seventeen years.”
    This detail— seventy-three-year-old Thomas Dwyer—silenced the
skepticism in the room. The professors experienced a rare moment of
speechlessness.
    And there was a good reason that DiMuro could respond quickly
with a vivid example. The reason is that diversity truly is a core value
at the LLDE. It’s part of the LLDE’s organizational DNA.
    In 2002, Liz Lerman won a MacArthur “genius grant” for her
work creating modern dance involving communities throughout the
United States. In a dance project called Hallelujah/U.S.A., Lerman
visited communities across the country and asked residents what
made them thankful. Then she choreographed dances around those
themes of praise. The ﬁnal performances featured members of the
local community: teenage female Hmong dancers in Minneapolis,
Border collie owners in Virginia, and a group of six card-playing
                               CREDIBLE                             141

ladies from Burlington, Vermont, who’d missed only two of their
weekly card games in forty years.
    Now, a brief aside to the eye-rolling skeptics out there, to whom
a modern dance performance sounds as appealing as being buried
alive: Whether or not you’d like to spend your weekends watching the
gyrations of Border collie owners, you’ve got to admit that the LLDE
is diverse. It’s real diversity, not workspeak diversity.
    The example of Thomas Dwyer—the seventy-three-year-old for-
mer government employee—is a vivid, concrete symbol of a core or-
ganization value. It’s a symbol both to supporters and to the dancers
themselves. No one wants to participate in a “dance project” and be
the only balding, middle-aged guy on a stage full of Twiggys. The
LLDE’s claim that diversity was a core value gained credibility from
the details of Dwyer’s example, rather than from an external source.

                           Beyond War

The use of vivid details is one way to create internal credibility—to
weave sources of credibility into the idea itself. Another way is to use
statistics. Since grade school, we’ve been taught to support our argu-
ments with statistical evidence. But statistics tend to be eye-glazing.
How can we use them while still managing to engage our audience?
    Geoff Ainscow and other leaders of the Beyond War movement in
the 1980s were determined to ﬁnd a way to address the following par-
adox: When we see a child running with scissors, we wince. We shout
at her to stop. Yet when we read newspaper articles about nuclear
weapons—which have the power to destroy millions of children—it
provokes, at best, only a moment of dismay.
    Beyond War was started by a group of citizens who were alarmed
by the arms race between the United States and the Soviet Union. At
this point, the combined Soviet and American nuclear arsenals were
sufﬁcient to destroy the world multiple times. The Beyond War par-
ticipants went door-to-door in their neighborhoods, hoping to galva-
142                          M A D E TO S T I C K

nize a public outcry against the arms race. They struggled with the
problem of how to make credible their belief that the arms race was
out of control. How do you make clear to people the staggering de-
structive capability of the world’s nuclear stockpile? It’s so intangible,
so invisible. And yet telling stories, or providing details, seems inade-
quate: Grappling with the nuclear arms race requires us to grapple
with the scale of it. Scale relies on numbers.
     Beyond War would arrange “house parties,” in which a host fam-
ily invited a group of friends and neighbors over, along with a Beyond
War representative to speak to them. Ainscow recounts a simple
demonstration that the group used in its presentations. He always car-
ried a metal bucket to the gatherings. At the appropriate point in the
presentation, he’d take a BB out of his pocket and drop it into the
empty bucket. The BB made a loud clatter as it ricocheted and set-
tled. Ainscow would say, “This is the Hiroshima bomb.” He then
spent a few minutes describing the devastation of the Hiroshima
bomb—the miles of ﬂattened buildings, the tens of thousands killed
immediately, the larger number of people with burns or other long-
term health problems.
     Next, he’d drop ten BBs into the bucket. The clatter was louder
and more chaotic. “This is the ﬁrepower of the missiles on one U.S. or
Soviet nuclear submarine,” he’d say.
     Finally, he asked the attendees to close their eyes. He’d say, “This is
the world’s current arsenal of nuclear weapons.” Then he poured 5,000
BBs into the bucket (one for every nuclear warhead in the world). The
noise was startling, even terrifying. “The roar of the BBs went on and
on,” said Ainscow. “Afterward there was always dead silence.”
     This approach is an ingenious way to convey a statistic. Let’s un-
pack it a bit. First, Beyond War had a core belief: “The public needs
to wake up and do something about the arms race.” Second, the
group’s members determined what was unexpected about the mes-
sage: Everyone knew that the world’s nuclear arsenal had grown since
World War II, but no one realized the scale of the growth. Third, they
                               CREDIBLE                              143

had a statistic to make their belief credible—i.e., that the world had
5,000 nuclear warheads when a single one was enough to decimate a
city. But the problem was that the number 5,000 means very little to
people. The trick was to make this large number meaningful.
    The ﬁnal twist was the demonstration—the bucket and the BBs,
which added a sensory dimension to an otherwise abstract concept.
Furthermore, the demonstration was carefully chosen—BBs are
weapons, and the sound of the BBs hitting the bucket was ﬁttingly
threatening.
    Notice something that may be counterintuitive: The statistic
didn’t stick. It couldn’t possibly stick. No one who saw the demon-
stration would remember, a week later, that there were 5,000 nuclear
warheads in the world.
    What did stick was the sudden, visceral awareness of a huge dan-
ger—the massive scale-up from World War II’s limited atomic weaponry
to the present worldwide arsenal. It was irrelevant whether there were
4,135 nuclear warheads or 9,437. The point was to hit people in the gut
with the realization that this was a problem that was out of control.
    This is the most important thing to remember about using statis-
tics effectively. Statistics are rarely meaningful in and of themselves.
Statistics will, and should, almost always be used to illustrate a rela-
tionship. It’s more important for people to remember the relationship
than the number.

               The Human- Scale Principle

Another way to bring statistics to life is to contextualize them in terms
that are more human, more everyday. As a scientiﬁc example, con-
trast the following two statements:

   1. Scientists recently computed an important physical con-
      straint to an extraordinary accuracy. To put the accuracy in
      perspective, imagine throwing a rock from the sun to the
144                          M A D E TO S T I C K

         earth and hitting the target within one third of a mile of
         dead center.
      2. Scientists recently computed an important physical con-
         straint to an extraordinary accuracy. To put the accuracy in
         perspective, imagine throwing a rock from New York to Los
         Angeles and hitting the target within two thirds of an inch
         of dead center.

    Which statement seems more accurate?
    As you may have guessed, the accuracy levels in both questions
are exactly the same, but when different groups evaluated the two
statements, 58 percent of respondents ranked the statistic about the
sun to the earth as “very impressive.” That jumped to 83 percent for
the statistic about New York to Los Angeles. We have no human ex-
perience, no intuition, about the distance between the sun and the
earth. The distance from New York to Los Angeles is much more tan-
gible. (Though, frankly, it’s still far from tangible. The problem is
that if you make the distance more tangible—like a football ﬁeld—
then the accuracy becomes intangible. “Throwing a rock the dis-
tance of a football ﬁeld to an accuracy of 3.4 microns” doesn’t help.)
    Stephen Covey, in his book The 8th Habit, describes a poll of
23,000 employees drawn from a number of companies and indus-
tries. He reports the poll’s ﬁndings:

      • Only 37 percent said they have a clear understanding of
        what their organization is trying to achieve and why.
      • Only one in ﬁve was enthusiastic about their team’s and
        their organization’s goals.
      • Only one in ﬁve said they had a clear “line of sight” between
        their tasks and their team’s and organization’s goals.
      • Only 15 percent felt that their organization fully enables
        them to execute key goals.
      • Only 20 percent fully trusted the organization they work for.
                               CREDIBLE                               145

     Pretty sobering stuff. It’s also pretty abstract. You probably walk
away from these stats thinking something like “There’s a lot of dissat-
isfaction and confusion in most companies.”
     Then Covey superimposes a very human metaphor over the sta-
tistics. He says, “If, say, a soccer team had these same scores, only 4 of
the 11 players on the ﬁeld would know which goal is theirs. Only 2 of
the 11 would care. Only 2 of the 11 would know what position they
play and know exactly what they are supposed to do. And all but 2
players would, in some way, be competing against their own team
members rather than the opponent.”
     The soccer analogy generates a human context for the statistics. It
creates a sense of drama and a sense of movement. We can’t help but
imagine the actions of the two players trying to score a goal, being op-
posed at every stage by the rest of their team.
     Why does the analogy work? It relies on our schema of soccer
teams and the fact that this schema is somehow cleaner, more well-
deﬁned, than our schemas of organizations. It’s more vivid to think of
a lack of cooperation on a soccer team—where teamwork is para-
mount—than in a corporation. And this is exactly Covey’s point: Cor-
porations should operate like teams, but they don’t. Humanizing the
statistics gives the argument greater wallop.
     As another example of the human-scale principle, take a mun-
dane situation: ﬁguring out whether a particular technological up-
grade is worth the money. One example comes from Cisco, when it
had to decide whether to add a wireless network for its employees.
The cost of maintaining a wireless network was estimated at $500 per
year per employee. That price sounds hefty—on the order of adding
dental or vision insurance for all employees. But it’s not a beneﬁt, it’s
an investment. So how do you compute the value of an investment?
You’ve got to decide whether you can get $501 worth of additional
value from each employee each year after adding the network.
     One Cisco employee ﬁgured out a better way to think about the
investment: “If you believe you can increase an employee’s produc-
146                         M A D E TO S T I C K

tivity by one to two minutes a day, you’ve paid back the cost of wire-
less.” On this scale, the investment is much easier to assess. Our intu-
ition works at this scale. We can easily simulate scenarios where
employees can save a few minutes from wireless access—for instance,
sending someone a request for a forgotten document during a critical
meeting.
    Statistics aren’t inherently helpful; it’s the scale and context that
make them so. Not many people have an intuition about whether
wireless networking can generate $500 worth of marginal value per
employee per year. The right scale changes everything. We saw that
Concreteness allows people to bring their knowledge to bear—
remember HP’s simulation of a family at Disney World? Similarly,
the human-scale principle allows us to bring our intuition to bear in
assessing whether the content of a message is credible.

     tatistics are a good source of internal credibility when they are
S    used to illustrate relationships. In the introduction of this book,
we discussed the example of the CSPI’s campaign against saturated-
fat-loaded movie popcorn. The relevant statistic was that a medium-
sized bag of popcorn had 37 grams of saturated fat. So what? Is that
good or bad?
    Art Silverman, of the CSPI, cleverly placed the popcorn’s
saturated-fat content in a relevant context for comparison. He said
that one bag of popcorn was equivalent to a whole day’s worth of un-
healthy eating. Silverman knew that most people would be appalled
by this ﬁnding.
    What if Silverman had been a sleazebag? He could have picked a
food item that was notoriously unhealthy but relatively low in satu-
rated fat, such as lollipops. “One bag of popcorn has the fat equiva-
lent of 712,000 lollipops!” (Or an inﬁnite number of lollipops, since
they’re fat-free.) This statistic is sleazy because it draws its power from
                                CREDIBLE                                147

sleight of hand involving different senses of unhealthy food. A sleazy
movie-theater executive, to retaliate, might have changed the do-
main of comparison from saturated fat to some positive attribute of
corn: “A bag of popcorn has as much Vitamin J as 71 pounds of broc-
coli!” (We made this up.)
     These possibilities are examples of why writing about statistics
ﬁlled us with anxiety. Particularly in the realm of politics, tinkering
with statistics provides lucrative employment for untold numbers of
issue advocates. Ethically challenged people with lots of analytical
smarts can, with enough contortions, make almost any case from a
given set of statistics.
     Of course, let’s also remember that it’s easier to lie without statis-
tics than with them. Data enforces boundaries. Unless people are un-
ethical enough to make up data, the reality of the data constrains
them. That’s a good thing, but it still leaves a lot of wiggle room.
     So what about the rest of us, who aren’t spinmeisters? What do we
do? We will still be tempted to put the best possible spin on our sta-
tistics. All of us do it. “I scored sixteen points for the church basketball
team tonight!” (Not mentioned: twenty-two missed shots and the loss
of the game.) “I’m ﬁve feet six.” (Not mentioned: The three-inch
heels.) “Revenue was up 10 percent this year, so I think I deserve a
bonus.” (Not mentioned: Proﬁts tanked.)
     When it comes to statistics, our best advice is to use them as in-
put, not output. Use them to make up your mind on an issue. Don’t
make up your mind and then go looking for the numbers to support
yourself—that’s asking for temptation and trouble. But if we use sta-
tistics to help us make up our minds, we’ll be in a great position to
share the pivotal numbers with others, as did Geoff Ainscow and the
Beyond War supporters.
148                              M A D E TO S T I C K

                                   C L I N I C

              Dealing with Shark Attack Hysteria

      THE SITUATION: Every few years the media go frothy over shark at-

      tacks. Shark attacks, however, remain extremely rare and do not vary
      much from one year to the next. So why do they consume so much
      media and public attention? The answer is that shark attacks spawn
      terrifying, dream-haunting stories like the following, from The Oprah
      Winfrey Show:

         OPRAH: Bethany Hamilton loved to ride the waves. Surﬁng daily
         since she was 8 years old, Bethany was such a phenom, people
         said she had salt water running through her veins. At the young
         age of 13, Bethany was a rising star on the surﬁng circuit and had
         become a local celebrity, but what happened next landed
         Bethany in headlines around the world.
             It was early morning. Bethany was in the ocean lying on her
         board with her arm dangling in the water. Suddenly, a deadly ﬁf-
         teen-foot tiger shark seized her arm. Violently, he jerked and
         yanked it until her arm was ripped right off of her small body. Sec-
         onds later the shark and her entire arm were gone, and Bethany
         was left alone on her board surrounded by bloody water.

      Imagine that you are forced to combat these vivid stories. Maybe
      you’re the publicity director of the Save the Sharks Foundation, or
      maybe you’re trying to convince your junior high school daughter
      that it’s okay to go to the beach. How do you do it? You’ve got the
      truth on your side—attacks are very rare—but that’s no guarantee
      that people will believe you. So what source of credibility do you
      tap to get people to believe you?
                               CREDIBLE                                     149

                                • • •

MESSAGE 1:   We based this message on statistics published by the
Florida Museum of Natural History:
    You’re more likely to drown on a beach in an area protected by
a lifeguard than you are to be attacked by a shark, much less killed
by one. In the United States in 2000, twelve people died in lifeguard-
protected areas. There were no fatalities from sharks. (In a typical
year there are only 0.4 fatalities.)

COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 1: This is okay but not great. This message

taps internal credibility—the credibility of hard statistics. We have two
comments: First, drowning does not seem like the right comparison
to make, because many people may think drowning is a common
cause of death. “Drowning is more common than shark attacks”
does not feel particularly unexpected. (And maybe we’re too skepti-
cal, but the presence of the college-student lifeguard never struck us
as an ironclad guarantee of safety.) Second, the statistical compari-
son—12 deaths versus 0.4—is good, but it isn’t particularly vivid or
meaningful on a human scale. It’s unlikely that anyone would re-
member these numbers a week later.

                                • • •

MESSAGE 2: This message is also based on statistics published by the

Florida Museum of Natural History:

          Which of these animals is more likely to kill you?

                         A SHARK        A DEER

    ANSWER: The deer is more likely to kill you. In fact, it’s 300

    times more likely to kill you (via a collision with your car).
150                              M A D E TO S T I C K

      COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 2: We like the unexpected idea that Bambi is

      more dangerous than the evil shark, followed by the doubly unex-
      pected statistic that Bambi is wildly more dangerous (300 times more
      deadly!). It’s absurd to the point of being funny, and humor is a nice
      antidote to the fear generated by shark-attack stories. In a sense, we’re
      ﬁghting emotional associations with emotional associations (see the
      next chapter).
         This message taps internal credibility with the statistic, but it also
      taps into the audience as a source of credibility. People in the audience
      know how much they fear deer when they’re driving around—i.e., not
      much. Few of us are afraid to go out in the evening on account of lurk-
      ing deer. We know that we don’t fear deer, so why should we fear
      sharks? (This is more effective than comparing shark attacks with
      drowning—after all, most of us have at least a mild fear of drowning.)

                                S C O R E C A R D

                 Checklist           Message 1           Message 2
                 Simple                                      
                 Unexpected               -                   
                 Concrete                                    
                 Credible                                    
                 Emotional                -                   
                 Story                    -                   -

      PUNCH LINE : When we use statistics, the less we rely on the actual

      numbers the better. The numbers inform us about the underlying re-
      lationship, but there are better ways to illustrate the underlying rela-
      tionship than the numbers themselves. Juxtaposing the deer and the
      shark is similar to Ainscow’s use of BBs in a bucket.
                               CREDIBLE                             151

            The Sinatra Test and Safexpress

We’ve seen that we can make our ideas more credible, on their own
merits, by using compelling details or by using statistics. A third way
to develop internal credibility is to use a particular type of example,
an example that passes what we call the Sinatra Test.
    In Frank Sinatra’s classic “New York, New York,” he sings about
starting a new life in New York City, and the chorus declares, “If I can
make it there, I’ll make it anywhere.” An example passes the Sinatra
Test when one example alone is enough to establish credibility in a
given domain. For instance, if you’ve got the security contract for Fort
Knox, you’re in the running for any security contract (even if you
have no other clients). If you catered a White House function, you
can compete for any catering contract. It’s the Sinatra Test: If you can
make it there, you can make it anywhere.
    Safexpress, a family-owned business based in India, used the Sina-
tra Test to its advantage. Safexpress competes in the shipping busi-
ness, where competition is ﬁerce. And, while the competition led to
low prices, there was a catch: Most shipping ﬁrms would not guaran-
tee safe, on-time deliveries. With some ﬁrms, you couldn’t be guar-
anteed that deliveries would be made, ever.
    To distinguish itself from the competition, Safexpress assured its
customers of safe, on-time delivery. International companies operat-
ing in India—companies accustomed to the reliability of FedEx—
embraced Safexpress immediately. But Safexpress struggled to attract
business from Indian companies that weren’t accustomed to paying
higher rates. Rubal Jain, a member of the founding family of Safe-
xpress, was determined to make inroads with Indian companies.
    To do so, Jain set his sights on winning the account of a major
Bollywood studio. When Jain proposed that Safexpress distribute the
studio’s ﬁlms, the reaction was “Are you kidding?”
    The skepticism was predictable and plausible: Piracy is a major
concern in India, as it is in the rest of the world, so distribution is
152                        M A D E TO S T I C K

mission-critical. If ﬁlms end up “misplaced” en route, bootlegged
versions show up a few weeks later on street corners. This risk wasn’t
one that the movie studio could take.
    Fortunately, Jain had a powerful credential ready. Safexpress had
handled the release of the ﬁfth Harry Potter book—every Potter book
in every bookstore in India had been delivered there by Safexpress, an
insanely complicated delivery: All the books had to arrive in stores by
8 a.m. on the morning of the release. Not too early, or the bookstore
owners might try to sell them early and the secret would be blown;
and not too late, or the bookstore owners would be irate at lost sales.
Also, the Potter books needed the same piracy protections as the stu-
dio’s ﬁlms—there could be no leaks.
    And Jain had a second story. He knew from an earlier conversa-
tion that the Bollywood studio executive had a brother who had re-
cently taken his high school board exams. After telling the Harry
Potter story, Jain mentioned, “By the way, we also safely delivered the
examination papers for your brother’s boards and carried the return
answer sheets.” Safexpress handles the distribution of all the central
examinations for high school and university admissions.
    Two months later, the deal was signed.
    Both of Jain’s stories passed the Sinatra Test. Jain could have used
statistics instead of stories—“98.84 percent of our deliveries arrive on
time.” Or he could have drawn on an external source of credibility,
such as a testimonial from the CEO of a multinational company:
“We’ve used Safexpress for all our deliveries in India and we’ve found
them to be an excellent service provider.” Both of these are good
credibility-boosters. But there is something extraordinary about being
the company that carries completed board exams and the latest Harry
Potter book. Their power comes from their concreteness rather than
from numbers or authority. These stories make you think, “If Safe-
xpress can make it there, they can make it anywhere.”
                              CREDIBLE                             153

                         Edible Fabrics

For an example that unites all three of the “internal credibility”
sources—details, statistics, and the Sinatra Test—we can turn to Bill
McDonough, an environmentalist known for helping companies im-
prove both the environment and the bottom line.
    Most executives tend to be skeptical and suspicious when ap-
proached by an environmentalist, even a “business-friendly” environ-
mentalist like McDonough. To overcome such skepticism—to prove
that there can be perfect consistency between business goals and envi-
ronmental goals—McDonough tells a story that passes the Sinatra Test.
    The story goes as follows. In 1993, McDonough and a chemist,
Michael Braungart, were hired by the Swiss textile manufacturer
Rohner Textil, which produces the fabrics for Steelcase chairs. Their
mission was one that most people in the textile industry considered
impossible: Create a manufacturing process without using toxic
chemicals.
    The textile industry routinely deals with hazardous chemicals. Most
dye colors contain toxic elements. In fact, the trimmings from Rohner
Textil’s factory—the excess cloth not used on the chairs—contained so
many questionable chemicals that the Swiss government classiﬁed
them as hazardous waste. Furthermore, the trimmings couldn’t be
buried or burned in Switzerland—to comply with government regula-
tions, they had to be exported—shipped to a country with laxer regula-
tions, such as Spain. (Note the vivid, concrete detail.) McDonough
said, “If your trimmings are declared hazardous waste but you can sell
what’s in the middle, you don’t need to be a rocket scientist to know
you’re selling hazardous waste.”
    To tackle this problem—eliminating toxic chemicals from the fur-
niture-manufacturing process—McDonough needed to ﬁnd a willing
partner in the chemical industry. He had to provide Rohner Textil
with a source for clean chemicals that would ﬁt the company’s pro-
154                        M A D E TO S T I C K

duction needs. So he and Braungart started approaching executives
in the chemical industry. They said, “We’d like to see all products in
the future be as safe as pediatric pharmaceuticals. We’d like our ba-
bies to be able to suck on them and get health and not sickness.”
    They asked chemical factories to open their books and talk about
how the chemicals were manufactured. McDonough told the com-
panies, “Don’t tell us ‘it’s proprietary and legal.’ If we don’t know
what it is, we’re not using it.” Sixty chemical companies turned them
down. Finally, the chairman of one ﬁrm, Ciba-Geigy, said okay.
    McDonough and Braungart studied 8,000 chemicals commonly
used in the textile industry. They measured each chemical against a
set of safety criteria. Of the chemicals they tested, 7,962 failed. They
were left with 38 chemicals—but those 38 were “safe enough to eat,”
according to McDonough. (Note the concrete detail—“safe enough
to eat”—plus a statistic that establishes a relationship—a tiny number
of good chemicals out of a larger number of toxic chemicals.)
    Amazingly, using just those 38 chemicals, they were able to create
a complete line of fabrics, containing every color but black. The fab-
ric they chose was made from natural materials—wool and a plant
ﬁber called ramie. When the production process went online, in-
spectors from the Swiss government came to check the water ﬂowing
out of the plant to make sure chemical emissions were within legal
limits. “At ﬁrst, the inspectors thought their equipment had broken,”
McDonough says. The instruments were detecting nothing in the
water. Then the inspectors tested the water ﬂowing into the factory,
which was Swiss drinking water, and found that the equipment was
ﬁne. McDonough says, “The fabrics during the production process
were further ﬁltering the water.”
    McDonough’s new process wasn’t just safer, it was cheaper. Man-
ufacturing costs shrank 20 percent. The savings came, in part, from
the reduced hassle and expense of dealing with toxic chemicals.
Workers no longer had to wear protective clothing. And the scraps—
instead of being shipped off to Spain for burial—were converted into
                                CREDIBLE                               155

felt, which was sold to Swiss farmers and gardeners for crop insula-
tion.
    This story is remarkable. Think about all the memorable ele-
ments: The impossible mission. The elimination of all but 38 of
8,000 chemicals. The factory’s water turned so clean that Swiss in-
spectors thought their instruments were broken. The scraps were
transformed from hazardous waste into crop insulation. The idea that
this fabric was “safe enough to eat.” And the happy business result—
workers made safer and costs down 20 percent.
    If McDonough approaches any business, in any industry, with a
suggestion for a more environment-friendly process, this story will give
him enormous credibility. It easily clears the bar set by the Sinatra Test.
    So far we’ve talked about creating credibility by drawing on exter-
nal sources—authorities and antiauthorities. And we’ve talked about
creating credibility by drawing on sources inside the message itself—
by using details and statistics and examples that pass the Sinatra Test.
But there’s one remaining source of credibility that we haven’t dis-
cussed. And it may be the most powerful source of all.

                       Where’s the Beef?

One of the most brilliant television ad campaigns of all time was
launched by Wendy’s in 1984. The ﬁrst commercial opens on three
elderly women standing together at a counter. On the counter there’s
a hamburger on a plate, and they’re gawking at it, because it’s huge—
about a foot in diameter.
   “It certainly is a big bun,” says the woman on the left.
   “A very big bun,” echoes the one in the center.
   “A big, ﬂuffy bun,” says the ﬁrst.
   “A very big ﬂuffy . . .”
   There’s a pause as the woman in the middle lifts the top half of the
bun and reveals a meager, overcooked beef patty and a single pickle.
The patty is dwarfed by the bun.
156                        M A D E TO S T I C K

    For the ﬁrst time, we hear from the woman on the right, played by
eighty-year-old Clara Peller. She squints through her glasses and says,
cantankerously, “Where’s the beef?”
    The announcer says, “Some hamburger places give you a lot less
beef on a ﬂuffy bun. . . .”
    Peller: “Where’s the beef?”
    Announcer: “The Wendy’s Single has more beef than the Whop-
per or the Big Mac. At Wendy’s you get more beef and less bun.”
    Peller: “Hey! Where’s the beef?” She peers over the counter. “I
don’t think there’s anybody back there.”
    There’s a lot to love about these commercials. They’re funny and
well produced. Clara Peller became a minor celebrity. More remark-
ably, the ads highlighted a true advantage of Wendy’s hamburgers:
They really did have more beef. The ads were a refreshing departure
from the standard advertiser tool kit that attempts to paint powerful
but irrelevant emotions on consumer goods—for instance, associating
a mother’s love of her children with a particular brand of fabric sof-
tener. Wendy’s did something more admirable: It highlighted a gen-
uine advantage of its product and presented it in an enjoyable way.
    The ads had a big impact. According to polls taken by Wendy’s,
the number of customers who believed that Wendy’s Single was
larger than the Whopper or the Big Mac increased by 47 percent in
the two months after the commercial aired. During the ﬁrst full year
after the ads ran, Wendy’s revenues rose 31 percent.
    The claim Wendy’s had made was that its burgers had more beef.
This information was probably not something most people would
have given much thought to before. Certainly it was not common
sense at the time. So how did Wendy’s make this claim credible?
    Notice that something different is going on here. This message
doesn’t draw on external credibility—Wendy’s didn’t invite Larry Bird
to weigh in on burger sizes. (Nor did it use an antiauthority, like an
obese burger-eating giant.) It doesn’t draw on internal credibility,
either, quoting a statistic like “11 percent more beef!” Instead, the
                              CREDIBLE                             157

commercials developed a brand-new source of credibility: the audi-
ence. Wendy’s outsourced its credibility to its customers.
    The spots implicitly challenged customers to verify Wendy’s
claims: See for yourself—look at our burgers versus McDonald’s burg-
ers. You’ll notice the size difference! To use scientiﬁc language,
Wendy’s made a falsiﬁable claim. Any customer with a ruler and a
scale could have veriﬁed the claim’s truth value. (Though Wendy’s
advantage was sufﬁciently substantial that just eyeballing the differ-
ence was enough.)
    This challenge—asking customers to test a claim for them-
selves—is a “testable credential.” Testable credentials can provide an
enormous credibility boost, since they essentially allow your audi-
ence members to “try before they buy.”

                    Testable Credentials

Testable credentials have a colorful history in urban legends. In the
1990s, Snapple struggled to shake rumors that it supported the Ku
Klux Klan. Rumormongers thought they had a few pieces of “evi-
dence” on their side: “Look on any bottle of Snapple—there’s a pic-
ture of a slave ship on the front!” Doubters were also encouraged to
look for the strange symbol showing a K inside a circle—allegedly,
evidence of the Klan’s ownership.
    Sure enough, Snapple’s labels did feature a picture of a ship and a
K in a circle. They just had nothing to do with the Klan. The ship was
from an engraving of the Boston Tea Party. The circled K is a symbol
for “kosher.” But some uninformed people saw these symbols and
bought into the rumors.
    Notice that the Snapple rumor provides a kind of bait-and-switch
version of “Where’s the Beef?” Wendy’s says, “See for yourself—our
burgers have more beef.” The Rumormongers say, “See for your-
self—there’s a circled K. Therefore Snapple supports the Ku Klux
Klan.” The validity of the see-for-yourself claim causes some people
158                         M A D E TO S T I C K

to leap, illogically, to the rumormongers’ conclusion. This is how
testable credentials can backﬁre—the “see for yourself” step can be
valid, while the resulting conclusion can be entirely invalid.
    Testable credentials are useful in many domains. For example,
take the question “Are you better off now than you were four years
ago?” Ronald Reagan famously posed this question to the audience
during his 1980 presidential debate with Jimmy Carter. Reagan
could have focused on statistics—the high inﬂation rate, the loss of
jobs, the rising interest rates. But instead of selling his case he de-
ferred to his audience.
    Another example of testable credentials comes from Jim Thomp-
son, the founder of the Positive Coaching Alliance (PCA). The mis-
sion of the PCA is to emphasize that youth sports should not be about
winning at all costs; it should be about learning life lessons.
    The PCA holds positive-coaching seminars for youth sports coaches.
At the seminars, trainers use the analogy of an “Emotional Tank” to get
coaches to think about the right ratio of praise, support, and critical
feedback. “The Emotional Tank is like the gas tank of an automobile. If
your car’s tank is empty, you can’t drive very far. If your Emotional Tank
is empty, you are not going to be able to perform at your best.”
    After the Emotional Tank analogy is introduced, the trainers
begin an exercise. First, they ask the coaches to imagine that the per-
son next to them has just ﬂubbed a key play in the game. The coaches
are challenged to say something to the person to drain his Emotional
Tank. Since clever put-downs are a staple of many sports interactions,
this exercise is embraced with noticeable enthusiasm. Thompson
says, “The room ﬁlls with laughter as coaches get into the exercise,
sometimes with great creativity.”
    Then the coaches are asked to imagine that someone else has
made the same mistake, but now they’re in charge of ﬁlling that per-
son’s Emotional Tank instead of draining it. This generates a more
muted response. Thompson says, “The room often gets very quiet,
and you ﬁnally hear a feeble, ‘Nice try!’ ”
                                 CREDIBLE                                    159

    Observing their own behavior, the coaches learn the lesson—how
they found it easier to criticize than to support, to think of ten clever
insults rather than a single consolation. Thompson found a way to
transform his point into a testable credential, something the coaches
could experience for themselves.

                               C L I N I C

                  Our Intuition Is Flawed,
              but Who Wants to Believe That?

   THE SITUATION: People often trust their intuition, but our intuition is

   ﬂawed by identiﬁable biases. Still, most people feel pretty good about
   their intuition, and it’s hard to convince them otherwise. This is the
   uphill battle faced by psychologists who study decision-making. Pre-
   tend that you’re the editor of an introductory psychology textbook,
   and you’re looking at two competing ways of explaining the concept
   of “availability bias.”

                                  • • •
   MESSAGE 1: Get ready to make a few predictions. Which of the follow-

   ing events kill more people: Homicide or suicide? Floods or tuber-
   culosis? Tornadoes or asthma? Take a second to think about your
   answers.
       You might have thought that homicide, ﬂoods, and tornadoes are
   more common. People generally do. But in the United States there
   are 50 percent more deaths from suicide than from homicide, nine
   times more deaths from tuberculosis than from ﬂoods, and eighty
   times more deaths from asthma than from tornadoes.
160                               M A D E TO S T I C K

          So why do people predict badly? Because of the availability bias.
      The availability bias is a natural tendency that causes us, when esti-
      mating the probability of a particular event, to judge the event’s
      probability by its availability in our memory. We intuitively think that
      events are more likely when they are easier to remember. But often
      the things we remember are not an accurate summary of the world.
          We may remember things better because they evoke more emo-
      tion, not because they are more frequent. We may remember things
      better because the media spend more time covering them (perhaps
      because they provide more vivid images), not because they are more
      common. The availability bias may lead our intuition astray, prompt-
      ing us to treat unusual things as common and unlikely things as
      probable.

      COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 1: This passage uses a simple but effective

      testable credential: Which problem do you think kills more people?
      With any luck, readers will botch at least one of the predictions, thus
      illustrating for themselves the reality of the availability bias.

                                       • • •
      MESSAGE 2: Here’s an alternative passage illustrating the availability

      bias that is more typical of introductory textbooks:
          The availability bias is a natural tendency that causes us, when
      estimating the probability of a particular event, to judge the event’s
      probability by its availability in our memory. We intuitively think that
      events are more likely when they’re easier to remember. But often the
      things we remember are not an accurate summary of the world. For
      example, in a study by decision researchers at the University of Ore-
      gon, experimental participants thought that 20 percent more people
      died in homicides than in suicides, when the truth is that there are 50
      percent more deaths from suicides. Subjects thought that more peo-
                               CREDIBLE                                      161

ple were killed by ﬂoods than tuberculosis, but nine times more peo-
ple are killed by tuberculosis. Subjects believed that approximately as
many people were killed by tornadoes as by asthma, but there are
eighty times more deaths from asthma.
   People remember things better because they evoke more emotion,
not because they are more frequent. People remember things better
because the media spend more time covering them (perhaps because
they provide more vivid images), not because they are more common.
The availability bias may lead our intuition astray, prompting us to treat
unusual things as common and unlikely things as probable.

COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 2: This is less involving. You could imagine a

student reading the second paragraph—which gives away the punch
line that asthma kills eighty times more people than tornadoes—and
thinking, Wow, those research participants were dumb. It’s much
more powerful to experience the effect for yourself.

                          S C O R E C A R D

           Checklist           Message 1            Message 2
           Simple                                      
           Unexpected                                   -
           Concrete                                    
           Credible                                   
           Emotional                -                    -
           Story                    -                    -

PUNCH LINE : Using testable credentials allows people to try out an

idea for themselves.
162                        M A D E TO S T I C K

                     Rookie Orientation

Let’s shift to a different sports domain: the National Basketball Asso-
ciation. Imagine that it’s your job to educate incoming NBA rookies
about the danger of AIDS. NBA players are young men—rookies are
often under twenty-one. And they are sudden celebrities, with all the
attention that goes with this new fame. They’ve heard about AIDS
their entire lives, so the risk is not that they’re unaware of AIDS; the
risk is that the circumstances of their lives prompt them to drop their
guard for a night.
    How do you make the threat of AIDS credible and immediate?
Think through the possible sources of credibility. You could draw on
external credibility—a celebrity/expert like Magic Johnson, or an
antiauthority, such as an athlete in the terminal stages of AIDS. You
could use statistics on a human scale (perhaps the odds of contracting
AIDS from a single encounter with a stranger). You could use vivid
details—an athlete could recount how his normal safe-sex vigilance
was eroded by a particularly wild night of partying. Any of these could
be quite effective. But what if you wanted to move the source of cred-
ibility inward, inside the heads of the players? The NBA came up
with an ingenious way to do just that.

     few weeks before the NBA season begins, all the rookie players
A    are required to meet in Tarrytown, New York, for a mandatory
orientation session. They’re essentially locked in a hotel for six days:
no pagers, no cell phones. The rookies are taught about life in the big
leagues—everything from how to deal with the media to how to make
sensible investments with their new riches.
    One year, despite the secrecy surrounding the orientation, a
group of female fans staked out the location. On the ﬁrst night of the
orientation, they were hanging out in the hotel bar and restaurant,
                               CREDIBLE                             163

dressed to be noticed. The players were pleased by the attention.
There was a lot of ﬂirting, and the players made plans to meet up with
some of the women later in the orientation.
    The next morning, the rookies dutifully showed up for their ses-
sion. They were surprised to see the female fans in front of the room.
The women introduced themselves again, one by one. “Hi, I’m
Sheila and I’m HIV positive.” “Hi, I’m Donna and I’m HIV positive.”
    Suddenly the talk about AIDS clicked for the rookies. They saw
how life could get out of control, how a single night could cause a
lifetime of regret.
    Contrast the NBA’s approach with the NFL’s approach. At the
NFL’s orientation one year, league personnel had every rookie put a
condom on a banana. No doubt eye-rolling was epidemic. Later, two
women—former football groupies—talked about how they would try
to seduce players, hoping to get pregnant. The women’s session was
powerful—it was a well-designed message. But what’s more likely to
stick with someone: hearing about someone who fooled someone
else, or being fooled yourself?

       ow do we get people to believe our ideas? We’ve got to ﬁnd a
H      source of credibility to draw on. Sometimes the wellsprings are
dry, as Barry Marshall discovered in his quest to cure the ulcer. Draw-
ing on external credibility didn’t work—the endorsement of his su-
pervisors and his institution in Perth didn’t seem to be enough.
Drawing on internal credibility didn’t work—his careful marshaling
of data and detail still didn’t help him clear the bar. In the end, what
he did was draw on the audience’s credibility—he essentially “mod-
eled” a testable credential by gulping a glass of bacteria. The implicit
challenge was: See for yourself—if you drink this gunk, you’ll get an
ulcer, just like I did.
    It’s not always obvious which wellspring of credibility we should
164                        M A D E TO S T I C K

draw from. What Marshall showed so brilliantly was perseverance—
knowing when it was time to draw on a different well. In this chapter
we’ve seen that the most obvious sources of credibility—external val-
idation and statistics—aren’t always the best. A few vivid details might
be more persuasive than a barrage of statistics. An antiauthority might
work better than an authority. A single story that passes the Sinatra
Test might overcome a mountain of skepticism. It’s inspirational to
know that a medical genius like Marshall had to climb over the same
hurdles with his idea as we’ll have to climb with ours—and to see that
he eventually prevailed, to the beneﬁt of us all.
                            C H A P T E R   5

              EMOTIONAL

             other Teresa once said, “If I look at the mass, I will never

M            act. If I look at the one, I will.” In 2004, some researchers
             at Carnegie Mellon University decided to see whether most
people act like Mother Teresa.
    The researchers wanted to see how people responded to an oppor-
tunity to make a charitable contribution to an abstract cause versus a
charitable contribution to a single person. They offered participants
ﬁve dollars to complete a survey about their usage of various technol-
ogy products. (The survey was irrelevant; the point was to ensure that
the participants would have some cash on hand to consider donating
to charity.)
    When people ﬁnished the survey, they received their payment in
ﬁve one-dollar bills. They also received, unexpectedly, an envelope
and a charity-request letter giving them an opportunity to donate
some of their money to Save the Children, a charity that focuses on
the well-being of children worldwide.
    The researchers tested two versions of the request letter. The ﬁrst
version featured statistics about the magnitude of the problems facing
children in Africa, such as the following:
166                           M A D E TO S T I C K

      • Food shortages in Malawi are affecting more than 3 million
        children.
      • In Zambia, severe rainfall deﬁcits have resulted in a 42 per-
        cent drop in maize production from 2000. As a result, an es-
        timated 3 million Zambians face hunger.
      • Four million Angolans—one third of the population—have
        been forced to ﬂee their homes.
      • More than 11 million people in Ethiopia need immediate
        food assistance.

   The other version of the letter gave information about a single
young girl:

      • Any money that you donate will go to Rokia, a seven-year-old
        girl from Mali, Africa. Rokia is desperately poor and faces the
        threat of severe hunger or even starvation. Her life will be
        changed for the better as a result of your ﬁnancial gift. With
        your support, and the support of other caring sponsors, Save
        the Children will work with Rokia’s family and other mem-
        bers of the community to help feed and educate her and pro-
        vide basic medical care and hygiene education.

The researchers gave participants one of the two different letters, then
left them alone. They chose how much money, if any, to put back
into the envelope, then they sealed the envelope and handed it back
to a researcher.
    On average, the people who read the statistics contributed $1.14.
The people who read about Rokia contributed $2.38—more than
twice as much. It seems that most people have something in common
with Mother Teresa: When it comes to our hearts, one individual
trumps the masses.
    The researchers believed that the smaller donations for the statis-
tical letter could be a result of what they called the “drop in the
                             E M OT I O N A L                       167

bucket effect.” If people felt overwhelmed by the scale of the prob-
lem, their small donations might have seemed meaningless. But
here’s where things get even more interesting. The researchers de-
cided to give a third group of people both sets of information—the
statistics and the story about Rokia. The researchers wondered
whether people who got all the information would give more, on av-
erage, than the $2.38 that had been given by the Rokia group. Per-
haps the combination of statistics and stories—the power of
individual need coupled with the statistical scale of the problem—
would inspire a whole new level of giving.
    Nope. The people who received both letters gave $1.43, almost
a dollar less than the people who got the Rokia story alone. Some-
how the statistics—evidence of massive human suffering in Africa—
actually made people less charitable. What was going on?
    The researchers theorized that thinking about statistics shifts peo-
ple into a more analytical frame of mind. When people think analyt-
ically, they’re less likely to think emotionally. And the researchers
believed it was people’s emotional response to Rokia’s plight that led
them to act.
    To prove this argument, they ran a second study. In this study they
primed some people to think in an analytical way by asking questions
such as, “If an object travels at ﬁve feet per minute, then by your cal-
culations how many feet will it travel in 360 seconds?” Other people
were primed to think in terms of feelings: “Please write down one
word to describe how you feel when you hear the word ‘baby.’ ”
    Then both groups were given the Rokia letter. And, conﬁrming
the researchers’ theory, the analytically primed people gave less.
When people were primed to feel before they read about Rokia, they
gave $2.34, about the same as before. But when they were primed to
calculate before they read about Rokia, they gave $1.26.
    These results are shocking. The mere act of calculation reduced
people’s charity. Once we put on our analytical hat, we react to emo-
tional appeals differently. We hinder our ability to feel.
168                       M A D E TO S T I C K

                               .   .   .

    n the last chapter, we discussed how to convince people that our
I   ideas are credible, how to make them believe. Belief counts for a
lot, but belief isn’t enough. For people to take action, they have to
care.
     Everyone believes there is tremendous human suffering in Africa;
there’s no doubt about the facts. But belief does not necessarily make
people care enough to act. Everyone believes that eating lots of fatty
food leads to health problems; there’s no doubt about the facts. But
the belief does not make people care enough to act.
     Charities have long since ﬁgured out the Mother Teresa effect—
they know that donors respond better to individuals than to abstract
causes. You don’t give to “African poverty,” you sponsor a speciﬁc
child. (In fact, the idea of sponsoring a child as a charitable hook
dates back to the 1950s, when a young Christian minister encouraged
Americans to sponsor needy Korean orphans.) The concept works
with animals, too. At Farm Sanctuary, a nonproﬁt organization that
ﬁghts to reduce cruel treatment of farm animals, donors can “adopt a
chicken” ($10 per month), a goat ($25), or a cow ($50).
     No one wants to donate to the General Administrative Fund of a
charity. It’s easy to understand, intellectually, why general funds
would be needed—someone’s got to buy the staples—but it’s hard to
generate a lot of passion for ofﬁce supplies.
     Charities have learned how to arouse sympathy and compassion
in donors—and thank goodness they’re good at it, because their skills
ease a lot of suffering. But “making people care” isn’t something that
only charities need to do. Managers have to make people care
enough to work long and hard on complex tasks. Teachers have to
make students care about literature. Activists have to make people
care about city council initiatives.
     This chapter tackles the emotional component of stickiness, but
it’s not about pushing people’s emotional buttons, like some kind of
                             E M OT I O N A L                      169

movie tearjerker. Rather, the goal of making messages “emotional” is
to make people care. Feelings inspire people to act.
   As an example, most teenagers believe that cigarette smoking is
dangerous. There’s no credibility problem with that message. Yet
teenagers still take up smoking. So how do you transform their belief
into action? You have to make them care. And, in 1998, someone
ﬁnally ﬁgured out how to do that.

                            The Truth

The commercial starts with a shot of a city street in New York City.
The footage is video, not ﬁlm—it’s a bit dark, a bit unprofessional. It
feels like a documentary, not a commercial. A caption ﬂashes at the
bottom of the screen: “Outside the headquarters of a major tobacco
company.”
    An eighteen-wheeler pulls up in front of the building, and a group
of teenagers jump out. The teens begin to unload long white sacks
marked “Body Bag.” They stack the bags on top of one another near
the edge of the building. As the commercial progresses, the pile of
body bags gets bigger and bigger. By the end of the ad, there are hun-
dreds of bags in the pile. One of the teens shouts at the building
through a megaphone, “Do you know how many people tobacco kills
every day?” The daily death toll is revealed to be 1,800—the number
of body bags the teens have piled up in front of the tobacco head-
quarters.
    This ad is part of a series of ads called the Truth campaign. The
campaign was launched by the American Legacy Foundation, which
was formed in November 1998 after forty-six state attorneys-general
settled a lawsuit against major U.S. tobacco companies.
    You can’t watch the Truth ads without getting angry at tobacco
companies. After the ads began airing, Philip Morris invoked a spe-
cial Big Tobacco “anti-viliﬁcation” clause to have the spots yanked
from the air. The tobacco companies inserted this clause in the set-
170                        M A D E TO S T I C K

tlements of a number of antitobacco lawsuits; it gives them some veto
power over how the settlement money can be spent on antismoking
advertising. “We felt that [the Truth ads] are not consistent with the
focus and mission of the American Legacy Foundation,” said Carolyn
Levy, Philip Morris’s senior vice president for youth-smoking preven-
tion, in reference to the censorship effort.
    One translation of this complaint: The ads were working.
    Meanwhile, another series of antismoking ads started to run. As
part of the tobacco settlement, Philip Morris agreed to air its own se-
ries of antismoking ads. The Philip Morris tagline was “Think. Don’t
Smoke.”
    Two campaigns were launched, almost simultaneously, with two
different approaches. This juxtaposition set up an exciting, head-to-
head horse race in the marketplace of ideas. In fact, in June 2002, an
article in the American Journal of Public Health surveyed 10,692
teenagers to compare the Truth campaign with “Think. Don’t Smoke.”
    It turns out that some horses run better than others. When kids
were asked to recall any antitobacco advertising they had seen, the
Truth campaign was remembered spontaneously by 22 percent of
them; the Think campaign by 3 percent. What’s particularly striking
about this statistic is that when the kids were prompted with informa-
tion from the campaigns, more than 70 percent of them remembered
seeing both. In other words, teens had seen both ads on TV, but one
stuck better than the other. Something about the Truth campaign
was spontaneously memorable.
    Memory is important, but it’s only the ﬁrst step. What about ac-
tion? When the survey asked kids whether they were likely to smoke a
cigarette during the next year, those who were exposed to the Truth
campaign were 66 percent less likely to smoke. Those who were ex-
posed to “Think. Don’t Smoke” were 36 percent more likely to
smoke! Tobacco execs must have taken the news quite hard.
    It wasn’t just surveys that registered the difference. A study meas-
ured teen smoking in Florida, where the Truth campaign had its
                             E M OT I O N A L                      171

debut, versus the rest of the country. After two years of the campaign,
smoking among high school students dropped by 18 percent and
among middle school students by 40 percent. (About half of this de-
cline may have been associated with a rise in cigarette taxes during
the time of the study.)
    What happened here? It’s the Save the Children example re-
visited. What is the “Think. Don’t Smoke” campaign about? Er,
thinking. It’s the Analytical Hat. Remember what happened with
contributions to Rokia when donors were asked to think analytically
before donating?
    What’s the Truth campaign about? It’s about tapping into anti-
authority resentment, the classic teenage emotion. Once, teens smoked
to rebel against The Man. Thanks to the ingenious framing of the Truth
campaign—which paints a picture of a duplicitous Big Tobacco—teens
now rebel against The Man by not smoking.
    The Truth campaign isn’t about rational decision-making; it’s
about rebellion. And it made a lot of teens care enough to do some-
thing. In this case, that something was nothing.

                Semantic Stretch and the
                  Power of Association

So far we’ve been talking about what you might expect from a chap-
ter on emotion—complex, fundamental human emotions like em-
pathy (Rokia) and anger (the Truth). But the main question of this
chapter is even more basic: How do we make people care about our
messages? The good news is that to make people care about our ideas
we don’t have to produce emotion from an absence of emotion. In
fact, many ideas use a sort of piggybacking strategy, associating them-
selves with emotions that already exist.
    Consider the following sentence from a movie review: “Rasho-
mon can be seen as a cinematic extension of Einstein’s theory of rela-
tivity.” Rashomon is a classic 1950 ﬁlm by the Japanese director Akira
172                         M A D E TO S T I C K

Kurosawa. In the ﬁlm, four different characters describe the same
event—a murder and rape—from their own perspectives. The movie
is told in a series of ﬂashbacks, as each of the characters recounts his
or her version of events. But the characters’ tales are self-serving and
contradictory, and at the end of the movie the viewer is still uncertain
about what actually happened. The movie questions the existence of
absolute truth—or, at least, our ability to uncover it.
     So the movie reviewer, in the quote above, was comparing Ra-
shomon’s “relative truth” to Einstein’s theory of relativity. But Ein-
stein’s theory of relativity wasn’t designed to say that “everything is
relative.” In fact, its actual meaning was essentially the opposite. The
theory was designed to explain how the laws of physics are identical in
every frame of reference. From Einstein’s view, things don’t look un-
predictable; they look surprisingly orderly.
     Why did the reviewer link Rashomon with relativity? This refer-
ence doesn’t look like an appeal to Einstein’s authority; it claims that
Rashomon is the cinematic “equivalent” of Einstein’s theory. Instead,
the analogy seems intended to create a sense of awe—when we watch
Rashomon, it implies, we will be in the presence of something pro-
found.
     The theory of relativity is borrowed, as an association, because it
lends an aura of emotional resonance—profundity, awe—to the
movie. The movie review above is just one example among thou-
sands. “Relativity” becomes, in a sense, a color on the idea palette.
When you want to conjure up awe, you dab your brush into “relativ-
ity.” Other scientiﬁc terms—the “uncertainty principle,” “chaos the-
ory,” the “quantum leap” of quantum mechanics—are also colors on
this palette.
     In 1929, Einstein protested, “Philosophers play with the word,
like a child with a doll. . . . It does not mean that everything in life is
relative.” To Einstein’s chagrin, the number of people trying to tap
into the resonance of “relativity” began to exceed the number of peo-
ple who were trying to understand relativity.
                              E M OT I O N A L                        173

    When associations to certain terms are drawn repeatedly—some-
times with precision, sometimes with crudeness—the effect is to di-
lute the power of the terms and their underlying concepts. When
everyone paints with lime green, lime green no longer stands out.
    Research conducted at Stanford and Yale shows that this
process—exploiting terms and concepts for their emotional associa-
tions—is a common characteristic of communication. People tend to
overuse any idea or concept that delivers an emotional kick. The re-
search labeled this overuse “semantic stretch.”
    Let’s look at a nonscientiﬁc example: the word “unique.” “Unique”
used to mean one of a kind. “Unique” was special.
    The researchers used a database to examine every newspaper arti-
cle in each of the top ﬁfty newspapers in the United States over a
twenty-year period. During this time, the percentage of articles in
which something was described as “unique” increased by 73 percent.
So either there’s a lot more unique stuff in the world today or the
“uniqueness bar” has been lowered.
    Perhaps some skeptics, contemplating robot vacuum cleaners or
Paris Hilton, would protest, “Hey, there is a lot more unique stuff in the
world these days.” But at the same time that the word “unique” was ris-
ing in popularity, the word “unusual” was falling. In 1985, articles were
more than twice as likely to use the word “unusual” as the word
“unique.” By 2005, the two words were about equally likely to be used.
    Unique things should be a subset of unusual things—unique (i.e.,
one of a kind) is about as unusual as you can get. So if there really
were more unique things today, we should see more “unusual” things
as well. The fact that unusual things are getting less common makes
the rise in unique things look like a case of semantic stretch. What we
used to call “unusual” we now stretch and call “unique.”
    So where’s the emotion in “relativity” and in “unique”? Here’s the
punch line: The most basic way to make people care is to form an as-
sociation between something they don’t yet care about and some-
thing they do care about. We all naturally practice the tactic of
174                        M A D E TO S T I C K

association. What “relativity” and “unique” teach us is that in using
associations we can overuse colors. Over time, associations get over-
used and become diluted in value; people end up saying things like
“This is really, truly unique.”
    The superlatives of one generation—groovy, awesome, cool,
phat—fade over time because they’ve been associated with too many
things. When you hear your father call something “cool,” coolness
loses its punch. When your ﬁnance professor starts using the word
“dude,” you must eliminate the word from your vocabulary. Using as-
sociations, then, is an arms race of sorts. The other guy builds a mis-
sile, so you have to build two. If he’s “unique,” you’ve got to be
“super-unique.”
    This emotional-association arms race creates problems for people
who are trying to make others care. In fact, as we’ll see, the arms race
essentially bankrupted the term “sportsmanship.”

               Fighting Semantic Stretch:
              The Case of “Sportsmanship”

In the last chapter, we discussed the coaching seminars held by Jim
Thompson, the founder of the Positive Coaching Alliance (PCA).
Since 1988, when he founded the PCA, Thompson has struggled
with an important problem. How do you clean up the bad behavior
often associated with youth sports? In grappling with this problem,
Thompson had to confront the issue of semantic stretch.
    The tennis player John McEnroe was once the poster child of
poor sportsmanship, with his racket-throwing and bratty arguments
with ofﬁcials. But today McEnroe’s behavior wouldn’t raise an eye-
brow at many youth sports games. Bad behavior is now common not
only among athletes but also among parents and other spectators. Ac-
cording to the National Alliance for Youth Sports, nearly 15 percent
of youth sports games involved a confrontation between parents or
coaches and ofﬁcials, up from 5 percent a few years ago.
                             E M OT I O N A L                       175

    Sportsmanship was once a powerful idea in athletics, but Thomp-
son felt that it had become a weak term. “Sportsmanship trophies are
seen as consolation prizes for losers,” he says. One woman told
Thompson that her high school basketball coach said that if his play-
ers ever won a sportsmanship trophy, they’d have to run laps. Thomp-
son adds, “Sportsmanship seems like it is mostly about not doing
something bad: ‘Don’t yell at ofﬁcials. Don’t break the rules.’ But it’s
not enough to simply refuse to do bad things. We need to expect
much more of participants in youth sports. Unfortunately, ‘Be a good
sport!’ is not the rallying cry that we need to transform youth sports.”
    Everyone enjoys hearing about real examples of good sportsman-
ship. Thompson uses the example of Lance Armstrong, who reacted
unexpectedly when one of his chief opponents, Jan Ullrich, crashed
during the Tour de France. Instead of taking advantage of this lucky
break to increase his lead, Armstrong slowed down and waited for
Ullrich to remount. He later said that he rode better when he was
competing with a great athlete like Ullrich. That’s sportsmanship.
    Thompson knew that people still admired the underlying ideals of
sportsmanship. Parents did want their kids to learn respect and man-
ners from athletics. Coaches did want to be mentors, not just victori-
ous taskmasters. Kids did want their teams to be respected by others.
All three groups sometimes slipped up and acted like jerks. But
Thompson saw that the need and the desire for sportsmanship re-
mained, even though the term “sportsmanship” had lost its ability to
motivate good behavior.
    “Sportsmanship” had been stretched too far. Like “relativity,” it
had migrated far aﬁeld from its original meaning. It used to refer to
the kind of behavior that Lance Armstrong showed Jan Ullrich. But
over time the term was stretched to include unimpressive, nonchival-
rous behavior, like losing without whining too much or making it
through an entire game without assaulting a referee.
    Thompson and the PCA needed a different way of encouraging
people, not just to avoid bad behavior but to embrace good behavior.
176                         M A D E TO S T I C K

They called it Honoring the Game. People care about sports, they
care about the Game. It’s a way of making the point that the Game
and its integrity are larger than the individual participants. “Honoring
the Game” is a kind of sports patriotism. It implies that you owe your
sport basic respect. Armstrong wasn’t being a “good sport”; he was
Honoring the Game. And Honoring the Game also works for people
other than players. It reminds anyone that sports is a civic institution.
It’s unseemly to mess with an institution. It’s dishonorable.
     Is there any proof that Honoring the Game works? Consider the
data gathered by a basketball league in Dallas, Texas: “In the 2002
basketball season, on average there was a technical foul called every
ﬁfteen games. Since that time, we’ve conducted six Double-Goal
Coach workshops. In the 2004 basketball season, there was a techni-
cal foul called every ﬁfty-two games.” A baseball league in Northern
California found that after Positive Coaching training, there was a
dramatic reduction (90 percent!) in the number of people who were
ejected from games for bad behavior. Team morale improved so
much that the number of players enrolling in the league increased by
20 percent. The only complaint was that they were running out of
ﬁelds.
     Thompson doesn’t want to change just the culture of youth sports.
He wants to change the culture of all sports: “I have a fantasy. I’m
watching the World Series and a manager comes rushing onto the
ﬁeld to berate an umpire who made a call he disagrees with. On na-
tional TV, Bob Costas says, ‘That’s really too bad to see the manager
dishonoring the game of baseball that way.’ ” (As a side note, notice
how wonderfully concrete this vision is.)
     Youth sports hasn’t been purged of discourtesy, but Thompson is
making a tangible difference in the places he’s reached. And, with
Honoring the Game, he has managed to sidestep semantic stretch
and peg an idea that makes people care.
     The lesson for the rest of us is that if we want to make people care,
we’ve got to tap into the things they care about. When everybody taps
                              E M OT I O N A L                        177

into the same thing, an arms race emerges. To avoid it, we’ve either
got to shift onto new turf, as Thompson did, or ﬁnd associations that
are distinctive for our ideas.

                 Appealing to Self-Interest

We’re searching for ways to make people care about our ideas—to
make them care about the African child Rokia, about smoking, about
charity, about sportsmanship. We make people care by appealing to
the things that matter to them.
    And what matters to people? So far, we’ve dealt with associations,
but there’s a more direct answer. In fact, it might be the most obvious
answer of all. What matters to people? People matter to themselves. It
will come as no surprise that one reliable way of making people care
is by invoking self-interest.
    In 1925, John Caples was assigned to write a headline for an ad-
vertisement promoting the correspondence music course offered by
the U.S. School of Music. Caples had no advertising experience, but
he was a natural. He sat at his typewriter and pecked out the most fa-
mous headline in print-advertising history: “They Laughed When I
Sat Down at the Piano . . . But When I Started to Play!”
    This is a classic underdog story in ﬁfteen words. People laughed at
him! And he shut them up through his playing! (The headline is en-
thralling enough that it makes us overlook commonsense reactions
like, Um, why would anyone laugh at someone sitting down at a
piano? When was the last time you laughed at someone who sat down
at a piano?)
    The headline was so successful at selling correspondence courses
that it’s still being ripped off by copywriters decades later. Sixty years
later, the following knockoff headline increased sales by 26 percent
over the previous year: “My Husband Laughed When I Ordered Our
Carpet Through the Mail. But When I Saved 50% . . .” (Our pub-
lisher rejected the following subtitle for this book: “They Laughed
178                          M A D E TO S T I C K

When We Wrote This Book. But When They Woke Up in an Ice-
Filled Bathtub . . .”)
     Caples helped establish mail-order advertising, the forerunner of
the modern infomercial. In mail-order advertising, unlike most other
forms of advertising, advertisers know exactly how well an ad works.
Say there’s an ad for a “stock-picking guide” in a newspaper or a mag-
azine. If you want to order the stock-picking guide, you send off a
check to the address listed in the ad. But each version of an ad lists a
slightly different address, so when your order shows up at a particular
address the marketer knows precisely which ad generated the sale.
     Contrast mail-order ads with a classic consumer product like
Crest. Why does someone buy a tube of Crest? Is it because of the
new TV ads? Or was it the discount price at retail? Or the fancy new
package design? Or the fact that Mom always used Crest? Or that it
was the only brand in stock that day? Marketers have surprisingly
little ability to tell.
     Because mail-order advertising is so transparent, it’s essentially a
laboratory for assessing motivational appeals. What makes people
care? Ask a direct-mail copywriter. And John Caples is often cited as
the greatest copywriter of all time. He says, “First and foremost, try to
get self-interest into every headline you write. Make your headline
suggest to readers that here is something they want. This rule is so
fundamental that it would seem obvious. Yet the rule is violated every
day by scores of writers.”
     Caples’s ads get self-interest into their headlines by promising
huge beneﬁts for trivial costs:

      • You Can Laugh at Money Worries if You Follow This Sim-
        ple Plan
      • Give Me 5 Days and I’ll Give You a Magnetic Personality . . .
        Let Me Prove It—Free
      • The Secret of How to Be Taller
                            E M OT I O N A L                      179

   • How You Can Improve Your Memory in One Evening
   • Retire at 55

    Caples says companies often emphasize features when they
should be emphasizing beneﬁts. “The most frequent reason for un-
successful advertising is advertisers who are so full of their own ac-
complishments (the world’s best seed!) that they forget to tell us why
we should buy (the world’s best lawn!).” An old advertising maxim
says you’ve got to spell out the beneﬁt of the beneﬁt. In other words,
people don’t buy quarter-inch drill bits. They buy quarter-inch holes
so they can hang their children’s pictures.
    We get uncomfortable looking at Caples’s handiwork: Many of his
ads are shady. Deceptive. The manufacturers of the Magnetic Per-
sonality Kit may enjoy a conscience-free existence, but most of us as-
pire to a working relationship with the truth.
    So what’s the nonadvertising, nonschlocky takeaway from the
Caples techniques? The ﬁrst lesson is not to overlook self-interest.
Jerry Weissman, a former TV producer and screenwriter who now
coaches CEOs in how to deliver speeches, says that you shouldn’t
dance around the appeal to self-interest. He says that the WIIFY—
“what’s in it for you,” pronounced whiff-y—should be a central aspect
of every speech.
    Weissman notes that some people resist spelling out the message.
“But my audiences aren’t stupid,” he quotes the resisters. “They
might even feel insulted if I spell it out for them!” For an audience
that may be distracted, though, spelling it out has value: “Even if it
takes them just a few seconds to connect the dots between the feature
you describe and the implied beneﬁt, by the time they catch up, you
will have moved on to your next point, and they probably won’t have
time to absorb the beneﬁt . . . or the next point.”
    Teachers are all too familiar with the student refrain “How are we
ever going to use this?” In other words, what’s in it for me? If the
180                           M A D E TO S T I C K

WIIFY was that algebra made students better at video games, would
any teacher hesitate to say so? Does any teacher doubt that students
would pay more attention?
    If you’ve got self-interest on your side, don’t bury it. Don’t talk
around it. Even subtle tweaks can make a difference. It’s important,
Caples says, to keep the self in self-interest: “Don’t say, ‘People will
enjoy a sense of security when they use Goodyear Tires.’ Say, ‘You
enjoy a sense of security when you use Goodyear Tires.’ ”
    Of course, there are less obnoxious, less overt ways to appeal to
self-interest than those promoted by mail-order ads. To explore this,
we’ll start with a rather odd study conducted in Tempe, Arizona.

                         Cable TV in Tempe

In 1982, psychologists conducted a study on persuasion with a group of
homeowners in Tempe, Arizona. The homeowners were visited by stu-
dent volunteers who asked them to ﬁll out surveys for a class project.
    At the time, cable TV was just starting to appear—it was still unfa-
miliar to most people. The research study was designed to compare
the success of two different approaches to educating the homeowners
about the potential beneﬁts of cable TV.
    One group of homeowners was presented with some information
about why cable might be worthwhile:

      CATV will provide a broader entertainment and informational
      service to its subscribers. Used properly, a person can plan in ad-
      vance to enjoy events offered. Instead of spending money on the
      babysitter and gas, and putting up with the hassles of going out,
      more time can be spent at home with family, alone, or with
      friends.

    The second group of homeowners was asked to imagine them-
selves in a detailed scenario:
                              E M OT I O N A L                            181

   Take a moment and imagine how CATV will provide you with a
   broader entertainment and informational service. When you use
   it properly, you will be able to plan in advance which of the events
   offered you wish to enjoy. Take a moment and think of how, in-
   stead of spending money on the babysitter and gas, and then hav-
   ing to put up with the hassles of going out, you will be able to
   spend your time at home, with your family, alone, or with your
   friends.

Some readers have said that at ﬁrst they didn’t see any difference be-
tween the two appeals. The difference is subtle. But go back and
count up the number of times the word “you” appears in each appeal.
    In a sense, the study was a more elaborate version of Caples’s ad-
vice to avoid talking about abstract beneﬁts (“People will enjoy a
sense of security when they use Goodyear Tires”) and focus on per-
sonal beneﬁts (“You enjoy a sense of security when you use Goodyear
Tires”). The Arizona study, though, took it a step further. It asked
people to visualize the feeling of security they would get by using
Goodyear tires.
    The homeowners ﬁlled out a questionnaire for the students and
said goodbye. They thought they were ﬁnished with the research
project, but the researchers still had another stage to complete. A
month after the survey was conducted, cable TV arrived in Tempe.
The local cable company approached the homeowners for subscrip-
tions. The university researchers managed to get subscriber data from
the cable company. They then analyzed which homeowners had sub-
scribed and which hadn’t.
    The homeowners who got information about cable subscribed at
a rate of 20 percent, which was about the same as the rest of the
neighborhood. But the homeowners who imagined themselves sub-
scribing to cable subscribed at a rate of 47 percent. The research
paper, when it was published, was subtitled “Does Imagining Make It
So?” The answer was yes.
182                          M A D E TO S T I C K

    Compared with a typical mail-order ad, the “imagine cable tele-
vision” appeal is a much more subtle appeal to self-interest. Note that
the beneﬁts offered were not fantastic in a Caples-esque way. The gist
was that you could avoid the hassle of leaving home (!) by ordering
cable. Indeed, just hearing about the beneﬁts, in the abstract, wasn’t
enough to lure additional subscribers. It was only when people put
themselves in the starring role—I can see myself watching a good
movie at home with my hubby, and I can get up and check on the kids
in the next room whenever I like . . . and think of all that babysitting
money I’d save!—that their interest grew.
    This ﬁnding suggests that it may be the tangibility, rather than the
magnitude, of the beneﬁts that makes people care. You don’t have to
promise riches and sex appeal and magnetic personalities. It may be
enough to promise reasonable beneﬁts that people can easily imagine
themselves enjoying.
    Imagine that Save the Children incorporated this idea into its
pitches for sponsorship. Right now the pitch is “You can sponsor
Rokia, a little girl in Mali, for $30 per month”—a pitch that is already
successful. But what if the pitch was expanded? “Imagine yourself as
the sponsor of Rokia, a little girl in Mali. You’ve got a picture of her
on your desk at work, next to your kids’ pictures. During the past year
you’ve traded letters with her three times, and you know from the let-
ters that she loves to read and frequently gets annoyed by her little
brother. She is excited that next year she’ll get to play on the soccer
team.” That’s powerful. (And it’s not crass.)

                                Maslow

Self-interest isn’t the whole story, of course—especially if we deﬁne “self-
interest” narrowly, as we often do, in terms of wealth and security. If it
were the whole story, no one would ever serve in the armed forces. There
are things people care about that would never appear in a Caples ad.
                             E M OT I O N A L                          183

    In 1954, a psychologist named Abraham Maslow surveyed the re-
search in psychology about what motivates people. He boiled down
volumes of existing research to a list of needs and desires that people
try to fulﬁll:

   • Transcendence: help others realize their potential
   • Self-actualization: realize our own potential, self-fulﬁllment,
     peak experiences
   • Aesthetic: symmetry, order, beauty, balance
   • Learning: know, understand, mentally connect
   • Esteem: achieve, be competent, gain approval, indepen-
     dence, status
   • Belonging: love, family, friends, affection
   • Security: protection, safety, stability
   • Physical: hunger, thirst, bodily comfort

You may remember this list as Maslow’s Pyramid, or Maslow’s Hierar-
chy of Needs. Maslow’s list of needs was incredibly insightful, but he
was wrong to describe it as a “hierarchy.” Maslow saw the hierarchy
as a ladder—to be climbed rung by rung from the bottom up. You
couldn’t ﬁll your longing for Esteem until you satisﬁed your longing
for Security. You couldn’t ﬁll your Aesthetic needs until your Physi-
cal needs were taken care of. (In Maslow’s world, there were no starv-
ing artists.)
    Subsequent research suggests that the hierarchical aspect of Mas-
low’s theory is bogus—people pursue all of these needs pretty much si-
multaneously. There’s no question that most starving men would rather
eat than transcend, but there’s an awful lot of overlap in the middle.
    When people talk about “self-interest,” they’re typically invoking
the Physical, Security, and Esteem layers. Sometimes Belonging
gets acknowledged if the speaker is touchy-feely. Not many mar-
keters or managers venture far beyond these categories. Even ap-
184                          M A D E TO S T I C K

peals that seem to fall under the Aesthetic category are often really
Esteem-related, but in disguise (e.g., a luxury-auto ad).
    There could be a very good reason that people focus on those par-
ticular categories. Maybe those are the ones that truly matter. The rest
of them—Self-actualization, Transcendence, and so on—do seem a
bit academic. Recent research has explored this question, helping to
shed light on which of Maslow’s categories made people care.

  magine that a company offers its employees a $1,000 bonus if they
I meet certain performance targets. There are three different ways of
presenting the bonus to the employees:

      1. Think of what that $1,000 means: a down payment on a
         new car or that new home improvement you’ve been want-
         ing to make.
      2. Think of the increased security of having that $1,000 in
         your bank account for a rainy day.
      3. Think of what the $1,000 means: the company recognizes
         how important you are to its overall performance. It doesn’t
         spend money for nothing.

    When people are asked which positioning would appeal to them
personally, most of them say No. 3. It’s good for the self-esteem—and,
as for No. 1 and No. 2, isn’t it kind of obvious that $1,000 can be spent
or saved? Most of us have no trouble at all visualizing ourselves spend-
ing $1,000. (It’s a bit less common to ﬁnd people who like to visualize
themselves saving.)
    Here’s the twist, though: When people are asked which is the best
positioning for other people (not them), they rank No. 1 most fulﬁll-
ing, followed by No. 2. That is, we are motivated by self-esteem, but
others are motivated by down payments. This single insight explains
                              E M OT I O N A L                         185

almost everything about the way incentives are structured in most
large organizations.
    Or consider another version of the same task. Let’s say you’re trying
to persuade someone to take a new job in a department that’s crucial to
the company’s success. Here are three possible pitches for the new job:

   1. Think about how much security this job provides. It’s so im-
      portant that the company will always need someone in this
      job.
   2. Think about the visibility provided by this job. Because the
      job is so important, a lot of people will be watching your
      performance.
   3. Think about how rewarding it will be to work in such a cen-
      tral job. It offers a unique opportunity to learn how the com-
      pany really works.

    The chasm between ourselves and others opens again. Most peo-
ple say No. 3—an appeal to Learning—would be most motivating for
them. Those same people predict that others would be most moti-
vated by No. 1 (Security) and No. 2 (Esteem).
    In other words, a lot of us think everyone else is living in Maslow’s
basement—we may have a penthouse apartment, but everyone else is
living below. The result of spending too much time in Maslow’s base-
ment is that we may overlook lots of opportunities to motivate people.
It’s not that the “bottom ﬂoors”—or the more tangible, physical
needs, to avoid the hierarchy metaphor—aren’t motivational. Of
course they are. We all like to get bonuses and to have job security
and to feel like we ﬁt in. But to focus on these needs exclusively robs
us of the chance to tap more profound motivations.
    A great example of using these more profound motivations in-
volves a retired member of the U.S. Army—not a battleﬁeld com-
mander but a guy who ran a mess hall.
186                         M A D E TO S T I C K

                         Dining in Iraq

Army food is just about what you’d expect: bland, overcooked, and
prepared in massive quantities. The dishes are not garnished with
sprigs of parsley. The mess halls are essentially calorie factories, giv-
ing the troops the fuel they need to do their jobs. An old Army prov-
erb says, “An Army travels on its stomach.”
    The Pegasus chow hall, just outside the Baghdad airport, has devel-
oped a different reputation. At Pegasus, the prime rib is perfectly pre-
pared. The fruit platter is a beautiful assortment of watermelon, kiwi
fruit, and grapes. There are legends of soldiers driving to Pegasus from
the Green Zone (the well-protected Americanized area of Baghdad),
along one of the most treacherous roads in Iraq, just to eat a meal.
    Floyd Lee, the man in charge of Pegasus, was retired from his
twenty-ﬁve-year career as a Marine Corps and Army cook when the
Iraq war began. He came out of retirement to take the job. “The good
Lord gave me a second chance to feed soldiers,” he said. “I’ve waited
for this job all my life, and here I am in Baghdad.”
    Lee is well aware that being a soldier is relentlessly difﬁcult. The
soldiers often work eighteen-hour days, seven days a week. The threat
of danger in Iraq is constant. Lee wants Pegasus to provide a respite
from the turmoil. He’s clear about his leadership mission: “As I see it,
I am not just in charge of food service; I am in charge of morale.”
    Think about that: I am in charge of morale. In terms of Maslow’s
hierarchy, Lee is going for Transcendence.
    This vision manifests itself in hundreds of small actions taken by
Lee’s staff on a daily basis. At Pegasus, the white walls of the typical
mess hall are covered with sports banners. There are gold treatments
on the windows, and green tablecloths with tassels. The harsh ﬂuores-
cent lights have been replaced by ceiling fans with soft bulbs. The
servers wear tall white chef’s hats.
    The remarkable thing about Pegasus’s reputation for great food is
that Pegasus works with exactly the same raw materials that everyone
                              E M OT I O N A L                       187

else does. Pegasus serves the same twenty-one-day Army menu as other
dining halls. Its food comes from the same suppliers. It’s the attitude
that makes the difference. A chef sorts through the daily fruit ship-
ment, culling the bad grapes, selecting the best parts of the water-
melon and kiwi, to prepare the perfect fruit tray. At night, the dessert
table features ﬁve kinds of pie and three kinds of cake. The Sunday
prime rib is marinated for two full days. A cook from New Orleans or-
ders spices that are mailed to Iraq to enhance the entrées. A dessert
chef describes her strawberry cake as “sexual and sensual”—two ad-
jectives never before applied to Army food.
    Lee realizes that serving food is a job, but improving morale is a
mission. Improving morale involves creativity and experimentation
and mastery. Serving food involves a ladle.
    One of the soldiers who commute to Pegasus for Sunday dinner
said, “The time you are in here, you forget you’re in Iraq.” Lee is tap-
ping into Maslow’s forgotten categories—the Aesthetic, Learning,
and Transcendence needs. In redeﬁning the mission of his mess hall,
he has inspired his co-workers to create an oasis in the desert.

     The Popcorn Popper and Political Science

Even John Caples, the mail-order copywriter, admits that there are
powerful motivations outside narrow self-interest. He tells a story about
a marketer who was promoting a new educational ﬁlm on ﬁre safety
that was intended to help ﬁremen. This marketer had been taught that
there are three basic consumer appeals: sex, greed, and fear.
   The marketer’s instinct was that greed would work best in this sit-
uation. He came up with a couple of ideas for free giveaways that
would persuade ﬁremen to check out the ﬁlm. He began calling local
units to ﬁgure out which giveaway would have the most appeal.
When he called, he would describe the new ﬁlm and ask, “Would
you like to see the ﬁlm for possible purchase for your educational pro-
grams?” The universal answer was an enthusiastic “Yes!”
188                           M A D E TO S T I C K

   The second question tested two versions of his greed appeal:
“Would your ﬁreﬁghters prefer a large electric popcorn popper or an
excellent set of chef’s carving knives as a thank-you for reviewing the
ﬁlm?”
   The ﬁrst two calls yielded deﬁnitive answers to this question: “Do
you think we’d use a ﬁre safety program because of some #*$@%!
popcorn popper?!”
   The marketer stopped asking about the free gifts.

    o, sometimes self-interest helps people care, and sometimes it
S   backﬁres. What are we to make of this?
   The mystery deepens if we consider politics. The conventional
wisdom is that voters are paragons of self-interest. If there’s a proposal
on the table to raise the marginal tax rate on the highest incomes, we
expect rich people to vote against it and everyone else to vote for it.
   Actually, this conventional wisdom is wrong. There’s not much
evidence that public opinion can be predicted by narrow self-interest.
In 1998, Donald Kinder, a professor of political science at the Uni-
versity of Michigan, wrote an inﬂuential survey of thirty years of re-
search on this topic. He summarizes the effects of self-interest on
political views as “triﬂing.” Triﬂing! Kinder writes:

      When faced with afﬁrmative action, white and black Americans
      come to their views without calculating personal harms or bene-
      ﬁts. The unemployed do not line up behind policies designed to
      alleviate economic distress. The medically needy are no more
      likely to favor government health insurance than the fully insured.
      Parents of children in public schools are not more likely to sup-
      port government aid to education than other citizens. Americans
      who are likely to be drafted are not more likely to oppose military
      intervention or escalating conﬂicts that are under way. Women
      employed outside the home do not differ from homemakers in
                              E M OT I O N A L                             189

   their support of policies intended to beneﬁt women at work. On
   such diverse matters as racial busing for the purpose of school de-
   segregation, anti-drinking ordinances, mandatory college exami-
   nations, housing policy, bilingual education, compliance with
   laws, satisfaction with the resolution of legal disputes, gun control
   and more, self-interest turns out to be quite unimportant.

    These ﬁndings are bracingly counterintuitive. If people aren’t
supporting their own self-interest, whose interests are they support-
ing?
    The answer is nuanced. First, self-interest does seem to matter,
quite a bit, when the effects of a public policy are signiﬁcant, tangi-
ble, and immediate. For example, in California in 1978, a ballot ini-
tiative called Proposition 13 called for a sharp reduction in property
taxes in exchange for equally sharp reductions in public services such
as schools, libraries, and police and ﬁre departments. On this issue,
homeowners—tired of the huge tax increases that accompany rising
property values—voted for Proposition 13. Librarians and ﬁreﬁghters,
among others, voted against it. Second, self-interest shapes what we
pay attention to, even if it doesn’t dictate our stance. For example, on
Proposition 13 homeowners and public employees were more likely
to have a well-formed opinion on the initiative—even if their opinion
was inconsistent with their personal self-interest.
    But self-interest isn’t the whole story. Principles—equality, indi-
vidualism, ideals about government, human rights, and the like—
may matter to us even when they violate our immediate self-interest.
We may dislike hearing the views of some fringe political group but
support its right to speak because we treasure free speech.
    And perhaps the most important part of the story is this: “Group
interest” is often a better predictor of political opinions than self-
interest. Kinder says that in forming opinions people seem to ask not
“What’s in it for me?” but, rather, “What’s in it for my group?” Our
group afﬁliation may be based on race, class, religion, gender, re-
190                        M A D E TO S T I C K

gion, political party, industry, or countless other dimensions of dif-
ference.
    A related idea comes from James March, a professor at Stanford
University, who proposes that we use two basic models to make deci-
sions. The ﬁrst model involves calculating consequences. We weigh
our alternatives, assessing the value of each one, and we choose the al-
ternative that yields us the most value. This model is the standard view
of decision-making in economics classes: People are self-interested
and rational. The rational agent asks, Which sofa will provide me with
the greatest comfort and the best aesthetics for the price? Which polit-
ical candidate will best serve my economic and social interests? The
second model is quite different. It assumes that people make decisions
based on identity. They ask themselves three questions: Who am I?
What kind of situation is this? And what do people like me do in this
kind of situation?
    Notice that in the second model people aren’t analyzing the con-
sequences or outcomes for themselves. There are no calculations,
only norms and principles. Which sofa would someone like me—
a Southeastern accountant—be more likely to buy? Which political
candidate should a Hollywood Buddhist get behind? It’s almost as
if people consulted an ideal self-image: What would someone like
me do?
    This second model of decision-making helps shed light on why
the ﬁreﬁghters got angry about the popcorn popper. Bear in mind
that the popcorn popper wasn’t a bribe. If the marketer had said,
“Order this ﬁlm for your ﬁrehouse and I’ll give you a popcorn popper
for your family,” clearly most people would reject the offer on ethical
grounds. On the contrary, the offer was innocuous: We will give you a
popcorn popper to thank you for the trouble you’re taking to review the
ﬁlm. You can have the popper regardless of your decision on the ﬁlm.
There’s nothing unethical about accepting this offer.
    And we can go further than that: From a self-interested, value-
                              E M OT I O N A L                       191

maximizing point of view, it is simply stupid to turn down this offer. If
you make Decision A, you end up with a popcorn popper. If you
make Decision B, you end up with no popcorn popper. Everything
else is the same. So unless popcorn destroys value in your world,
you’d better make Decision A.
    But from the perspective of the identity model of decision-making,
turning down the popper makes perfect sense. The thought process
would be more like this: “I’m a ﬁreﬁghter. You’re offering me a pop-
corn popper to get me to view a ﬁlm on safety. But ﬁreﬁghters aren’t
the kind of people who need little gifts to motivate us to learn about
safety. We risk our lives, going into burning buildings to save people.
Shame on you for implying that I need a popcorn popper!”
    There are ways to unite these two decision models. What if the
marketer had offered to donate ﬁfty dollars to a school’s ﬁre-safety
program in exchange for the ﬁremen’s viewing the ﬁlm? It’s less clear
that this offer would have violated the ﬁreﬁghters’ sense of identity.
    Self-interest is important. There’s no question that we can make
people care by appealing to it. But it makes for a limited palette. Al-
ways structuring our ideas around self-interest is like always painting
with one color. It’s stiﬂing for us and uninspiring for others.
    Floyd Lee, the manager of the Pegasus dining hall, has it right. He
could have generated motivation through a strict self-interest appeal:
perhaps by offering to let his employees off ten minutes early every
night if they worked hard, or by giving them the ﬁrst choice of the
steaks. Instead, he helped create a kind of Pegasus identity: A Pegasus
chef is in charge of morale, not food. You can imagine hundreds of de-
cisions being made by staffers in the tent who think to themselves,
What should a Pegasus person do in this situation?
192                             M A D E TO S T I C K

                                  C L I N I C

           The Need for Algebra and Maslow’s Basement

      THE SITUATION: Every algebra teacher in recorded history has had to

      deal with two student questions: “Why do I need to know this? When
      will I ever use this?” This Clinic examines three attempts to answer
      these questions.

                                     • • •
      MESSAGE 1: In a 1993 conference on “Algebra for All,” the following

      points were made in response to the question “Why study algebra?”

      • Algebra provides methods for moving from the speciﬁc to the gen-
        eral. It involves discovering the patterns among items in a set and
        developing the language needed to think about and communicate
        it to others.
      • Algebra provides procedures for manipulating symbols to allow
        for understanding of the world around us.
      • Algebra provides a vehicle for understanding our world through
        mathematical models.
      • Algebra is the science of variables. It enables us to deal with large
        bodies of data by identifying variables (quantities which change in
        value) and by imposing or ﬁnding structures within the data.
      • Algebra is the basic set of ideas and techniques for describing and
        reasoning about relations between variable quantities.

      COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 1:       This message illustrates the problems
      posed by the Curse of Knowledge. Presumably, this conference was
      ﬁlled with a group of algebra experts and they came up with an an-
      swer that seemed plausible to other experts. But let’s get real: Will
                              E M OT I O N A L                           193

any restless student jump on the algebra bandwagon after being told
that it “provides procedures for manipulating symbols to allow for
understanding of the world”? As a deﬁnition of algebra, the bullets
above seem quite logical. But as reasons for studying algebra, they
don’t work. We need a message that makes students care about al-
gebra.

                                   • • •
MESSAGE 2: We made up the following response. It was inspired by

several examples that we saw ﬂoating around the Internet:
    Here’s what I tell my students about why they need to learn alge-
bra:
• You need it to get your high school diploma.
• Every future math and science class you take will require a knowl-
  edge of algebra.
• To get admitted to a good college, you’ll need a good record in
  math.
• And even if you don’t ever plan to attend college, the reasoning
  skills you learn in algebra will help you buy a home, create a bud-
  get, etc.
    My brother is a sales rep for a high-tech ﬁrm . . . he always had
trouble with math in school but now realizes the hard work he put
into the course has improved his analytical skills and has made him a
better presenter to his clients.

COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 2: This teacher avoids the Curse of Knowl-

edge by speaking practically, but he stays close to Maslow’s Base-
ment. Why study algebra? The ﬁrst reason: You have to do it because
you have to do it. The second: You have to do it so that you can do
more of it. The primary appeal is to Esteem—the desire to be compe-
tent, to gain approval and status. The most effective part is the part
194                              M A D E TO S T I C K

      about the author’s brother, who later realized that his struggles with
      math paid off. The brother story is an Esteem appeal that builds in an
      almost Caples-esque victory story. (“They laughed when I botched
      the equation, but when I won the account . . .”)

                                      • • •
      MESSAGE 3: This is a response from a high school algebra teacher,

      Dean Sherman, to an Internet discussion of this topic among high
      school teachers:
          My grade 9 students have difﬁculty appreciating the usefulness of
      the Standard Form of the equation of a line, prompting them to ask,
      “When are we ever going to need this?”
          This question used to really bother me, and I would look, as a re-
      sult, for justiﬁcation for everything I taught. Now I say, “Never. You
      will never use this.”
          I then go on to remind them that people don’t lift weights so that
      they will be prepared should, one day, [someone] knock them over
      on the street and lay a barbell across their chests. You lift weights so
      that you can knock over a defensive lineman, or carry your groceries
      or lift your grandchildren without being sore the next day. You do
      math exercises so that you can improve your ability to think logically,
      so that you can be a better lawyer, doctor, architect, prison warden or
      parent.
          MATH IS MENTAL WEIGHT TRAINING. It is a means to an end
      (for most people), not an end in itself.

      COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 3: This is a great response. Note the elements

      we’ve seen before in the book: The surprise opening to grab atten-
      tion (“Never. You will never use this”). Also, the use of analogy is bril-
      liant—he taps our existing schema of weight lifting to change our
      model of “learning algebra” (i.e., it’s not that in the future you’re
                               E M OT I O N A L                              195

   going to have a daily need to ﬁnd the slope of a line; it’s that you’re
   making your brain more muscular).
      He is also moving up Maslow’s hierarchy. The appeal here is to
   higher levels like Learning and Self-actualization. The idea is that
   learning algebra makes you realize more of your potential.

                            S C O R E C A R D

             Checklist        Msg. 1        Msg. 2      Msg. 3
             Simple              -                -        
             Unexpected          -                -        
             Concrete            -                        
             Credible            -                -        -
             Emotional           -                      
             Story               -                        -

   PUNCH LINE : “Math is mental weight training” reminds us that, even in

   the most mundane situations, there’s an opportunity to move out of
   Maslow’s basement and into the higher levels of motivation.

                      Don’t Mess with Texas

Dan Syrek is the nation’s leading researcher on litter. He has worked
with sixteen states—from New York to Alaska—on antilitter initia-
tives. He often begins his projects by selecting random stretches of
road—from interstates to farm roads—and walking the roads person-
ally, a clicker in each hand, manually counting litter.
    In the 1980s, Syrek and his Sacramento-based organization, the
Institute for Applied Research, were hired by the state of Texas. Texas
196                         M A D E TO S T I C K

had a serious litter problem. The state was spending $25 million per
year on cleanup, and the costs were rising 15 percent per year. The
state’s attempts to encourage better behavior—“Please Don’t Litter”
signs, lots of roadside trash cans marked “Pitch In”—weren’t work-
ing. Texas hired Syrek to help craft a new strategy.
    The standard antilitter message is emotional, but it tends to focus
on a limited set of emotions. There are appeals to guilt and shame, as
in a spot that shows a Native American shedding a tear over litter.
There are also appeals to our feelings for cuddly wildlife, such as the
campaign starring a cartoon owl who says, “Give a Hoot—Don’t Pol-
lute.”
    Syrek knew that this type of messaging wouldn’t solve Texas’s
problem. In his view, those kinds of ads are just “preaching to the
choir.” What Texas needed to do was reach people who weren’t in-
clined to shed tears over roadside trash. The proﬁle of the typical lit-
terer in Texas was an eighteen- to thirty-ﬁve-year-old, pickup-driving
male who liked sports and country music. He didn’t like authority
and he wasn’t motivated by emotional associations with cuddly owls.
One member of the Texas Department of Transportation said, “Say-
ing ‘please’ to these guys falls on deaf ears.”
    “We found that people who throw the stuff are real slobs,” Syrek
says. “You had to explain to them that what they were doing was lit-
tering.” Syrek kept with him a photo of a macho-looking man in a
pickup truck. “This is our target market,” he said. “We call him
Bubba.”
    Designing an antilitter campaign based on self-interest wasn’t
likely to work with this group. After all, what do the Bubbas really
have to gain by not littering? Throwing things away properly takes ef-
fort, for which there are no obvious rewards. The situation doesn’t
lend itself to a greed or sex-based appeal, à la Caples. It might be pos-
sible to design a fear-based approach—highlighting hefty ﬁnes or
other punishments—but the Bubbas’ antiauthority streak would
likely render it useless (or even cause it to backﬁre).
                              E M OT I O N A L                            197

    Syrek knew that the best way to change Bubba’s behavior was to
convince him that people like him did not litter. Based on his re-
search, the Texas Department of Transportation approved a cam-
paign built around the slogan “Don’t Mess with Texas.”
    One of the earliest TV commercials featured two Dallas Cowboy
players who were famous in Texas: defensive end Ed “Too-Tall” Jones
and defensive tackle Randy White. In the spot, they’re picking up
trash on the side of a highway:

   Too-Tall Jones steps toward the camera and says, “You see the guy
   who threw this out the window . . . you tell him I got a message for
   him.”
      Randy White steps forward with a beer can and says, “I got a
   message for him too . . .”
      An off-camera voice asks, “What’s that?”
      White crushes the can with his ﬁst and says threateningly,
   “Well, I kinda need to see him to deliver it.”
      Too-Tall Jones adds, “Don’t mess with Texas.”

This commercial is a far cry from cute owls and weepy Native Amer-
icans.
    Another ad features Houston Astros pitcher Mike Scott, famous
for his split-ﬁngered fastball. Scott says that throwing stuff away is “the
Texas thing to do.” He demonstrates his “split-ﬁngered trashball,”
hurling some litter into a roadside can, which explodes with a pillar
of ﬁre. Subtle stuff.
    The campaign featured athletes and musicians, most of whom
probably weren’t household names outside Texas but were all well-
known to Texans as Texans: Houston Oiler quarterback Warren
Moon, boxer George Foreman, blues guitarist Stevie Ray Vaughan,
and country artist Jerry Jeff Walker. Willie Nelson contributed an ad
with the line “Mamas, tell all your babies, ‘Don’t mess with Texas.’ ”
    But isn’t this just a garden-variety celebrity endorsement? No, it’s
198                        M A D E TO S T I C K

more subtle than that. Certainly, the spots are not driven by pure
celebrity—Barbra Streisand wouldn’t pack much of a punch with
Bubba. And even macho celebrities wouldn’t have worked the same
way. Schwarzenegger is macho but does nothing to evoke Texanness.
    What if the campaign used the same celebrities but adopted a
more conventional PSA-type approach? “I’m pro boxer George Fore-
man. It’s uncool to litter.” That, too, would be unlikely to work: Fore-
man would be stepping into the authority role that Bubba hates.
    The message of the campaign was Texans don’t litter. Notice that
the celebrities are valuable only insofar as they can quickly establish
the schema of “Texas”—or, more speciﬁcally, of “ideal, masculine
Texans.” Even people who dislike Willie Nelson’s music can appreci-
ate his quality of Texan-ness.
    The campaign was an instant success. Within a few months of the
launch, an astonishing 73 percent of Texans polled could recall the
message and identify it as an antilitter message. Within one year, lit-
ter had declined 29 percent.
    The Department of Transportation originally planned to accom-
pany the “Don’t Mess with Texas” campaign with a separate $1 mil-
lion program to enforce litter laws more vigorously. This was a fear
tactic: If you litter, you’re more likely to get caught and prosecuted.
But the effect of “Don’t Mess with Texas” was so strong and immedi-
ate that the enforcement program was abandoned. By offering Bubba
a compelling message about identity, the campaign made appeals to
fear unnecessary.
    During the ﬁrst ﬁve years of the campaign, visible roadside litter
in Texas decreased 72 percent and the number of cans along Texas
roads dropped 81 percent. In 1988, Syrek found that Texas had less
than half the trash he found along the roads of other states that had
run antilitter programs for comparable periods.
    “Don’t Mess with Texas,” as a phrase, is a great slogan. But we
shouldn’t confuse the slogan with the idea. The idea was that Syrek
                             E M OT I O N A L                       199

could make Bubba care about litter by showing him that real Texans
didn’t litter. The idea was that Bubba would respond to an identity
appeal better than he would to a rational self-interest appeal. Even if
a second-rate copywriter had been hired, and the slogan had been
“Don’t Disrespect Texas,” the campaign would still have decreased
cans on Texas highways.

                  The Music of Duo Piano

So far we’ve looked at three strategies for making people care: using
associations (or avoiding associations, as the case may be), appealing
to self-interest, and appealing to identity. All three strategies can be
effective, but we’ve got to watch out for our old nemesis, the Curse of
Knowledge, which can interfere with our ability to implement them.
    In 2002, Chip helped a group of professors lead a seminar for non-
proﬁt arts leaders in Miami and Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. One of the ex-
ercises was intended to help the leaders articulate and reﬁne the core
mission of their organization. The questions put to the attendees were
difﬁcult ones: Why does your organization exist? Can other organiza-
tions do what you do—and if so, what is it you do that is unique?
    One question asked participants to deﬁne the purpose of their or-
ganization in a way that would motivate other people to care about it.
Volunteers must care enough to contribute their time, donors must care
enough to donate their money, and employees must care enough to
stick by the organization (even when they get lucrative job offers from
other, for-proﬁt organizations). One of the organizations attending the
seminar was the Murray Dranoff Duo Piano Foundation. When it was
their turn, Chip asked the representatives to read their emotion-evoking
purpose statement:

   Duo Piano group: We exist to protect, preserve, and promote
     the music of duo piano.
200                          M A D E TO S T I C K

      Chip: Why is it important to protect the music of duo piano?
      Duo Piano group: Well, not much duo piano music is being
        performed anymore. We want to keep it from dying out.

    One attendee admitted later that when he ﬁrst heard the phrase
“duo piano” he immediately thought of the “dueling pianos” that you
ﬁnd in touristy bars, with people drunkenly singing along to “Piano
Man.” Some people in the room thought that perhaps the death of
duo piano music should not be prevented but hastened.
    The conversation went around in circles for a few minutes with-
out much progress in making the people in the room care about duo
piano as an art form. Finally, one of the other participants chimed in:
I don’t want to be rude, but why would the world be a less rich place
if duo piano music disappeared completely?

      Duo Piano group: (Clearly taken aback). Wow . . .
         The piano is this magniﬁcent instrument. It was created to
      put the entire range and tonal quality of the whole orchestra
      under the control of one performer. There is no other instru-
      ment that has the same breadth and range.
         And when you put two of these magniﬁcent instruments in
      the same room, and the performers can respond to each other
      and build on each other, it’s like having the sound of the or-
      chestra but the intimacy of chamber music.

    At that point, surprise brows went up around the room and there
was an audible murmur of approval. This phrase—“the sound of the
orchestra but the intimacy of chamber music”—was profound and
evocative. Suddenly the people in the room understood, for the ﬁrst
time, why the Murray Dranoff team was, and should be, committed
to the duo piano.
    Why did it take ten minutes for the Murray Dranoff group to
                              E M OT I O N A L                       201

come up with a message that made other people care? You’d think
that a group devoted to the duo piano would be in the best position of
anyone on earth to explain the value of the music.
    The reality is that they did in fact know better than anyone on earth
why the duo piano was worth preserving. But the Curse of Knowledge
prevented them from expressing it well. The mission to “preserve duo
piano music” was effective and meaningful inside Murray Dranoff, but
outside the organization it was opaque. Several attendees later com-
mented that they had sympathized with the question “Why would the
world be a less rich place if duo piano music disappeared completely?”
What’s so special about the duo piano? Who cares?
    If you come to work every day for years, focused on duo piano is-
sues, it’s easy to forget that a lot of the world has never heard of the
duo piano. It’s easy to forget that you’re the tapper and the world is
the listener. The duo piano group was rescued from the Curse of
Knowledge by a roomful of people relentlessly asking them, “Why?”
By asking “Why?” three times, the duo piano group moved from talk-
ing about what they were doing to why they were doing it. They
moved from a set of associations that had no power (except to some-
one who already knew duo piano music) to a set of deeper, more con-
crete associations that connected emotionally with outsiders.
    This tactic of the “Three Whys” can be useful in bypassing the
Curse of Knowledge. (Toyota actually has a “Five Whys” process for
getting to the bottom of problems on its production line. Feel free to
use as many “Whys” as you like.) Asking “Why?” helps to remind us
of the core values, the core principles, that underlie our ideas.

      few years back, a group of hospital administrators asked the de-
A     sign ﬁrm IDEO to help improve the hospital’s workﬂow. The
team at IDEO knew that they would probably face a lot of internal re-
sistance to their recommendations. The ﬁrst step in motivating the
202                        M A D E TO S T I C K

hospital staff to change was to get them to realize that there was a
problem and get them to care about it.
    IDEO created a video, shot from the perspective of a patient who
goes to the emergency room for a leg fracture. In the video, we see
what the patient sees. We are the patient. We come in through the
door to the ER—we hunt around for check-in instructions and inter-
act with the admissions people, who are speaking in a foreign medical
tongue. Eventually, we are laid on a gurney and wheeled through the
hospital. We see long stretches of the hospital ceiling. We hear dis-
embodied voices, because we can’t see the person addressing us.
Every now and then, someone pokes his or her head into our ﬁeld of
view. Frequently, there are long pauses where we just sit idle, staring
at the ceiling, unsure what’s coming next.
    Jane Fulton Suri, a psychologist at IDEO, said that when the hos-
pital staff was shown the video it had an immediate impact. “The ﬁrst
reaction was always something like ‘Oh, I never realized . . .’ ” Suri
says she likes the word realized. Before the hospital workers saw the
video, the problem wasn’t quite real. Afterward, she said, “There’s an
immediate motivation to ﬁx things. It’s no longer just some problem
on a problem list.”
    IDEO also created role-playing exercises, putting the staffers in
the patients’ shoes. The exercises included such tasks as, “Imagine
that you are French and you are trying to locate your father in the
hospital, but you don’t speak any English.” IDEO has become known
for this type of simulation—simulations that drive employees to em-
pathize with their customers. Time seems to erode empathy in some
contexts, and IDEO’s simulations manage to restore the natural em-
pathy that we have for others. “The world of business tends to em-
phasize the pattern over the particular,” Suri said. “The intellectual
aspects of the pattern prevent people from caring.”

                                .   .   .
                             E M OT I O N A L                       203

    his realization—that empathy emerges from the particular rather
T   than the pattern—brings us back full circle to the Mother Teresa
quote at the beginning of the chapter: “If I look at the mass, I will
never act. If I look at the one, I will.”
    How can we make people care about our ideas? We get them to
take off their Analytical Hats. We create empathy for speciﬁc individ-
uals. We show how our ideas are associated with things that people al-
ready care about. We appeal to their self-interest, but we also appeal
to their identities—not only to the people they are right now but also
to the people they would like to be
    And, while we should always think about “what’s in it” for our au-
dience, we should remember to stay clear of Maslow’s Basement.
“What’s in it” for our audience might be aesthetic motivation or the
desire for transcendence rather than a $250 bonus. Floyd Lee said,
“As I see it, I am not just in charge of food service; I am in charge of
morale.” Who wouldn’t want a leader like Floyd Lee?
                           C H A P T E R   6

                     STORIES

       he nurse was working in the neonatal intensive-care unit,

T      where newborns with serious health problems are treated and
       monitored. She’d been watching one baby in particular for sev-
eral hours, and she didn’t like what she was seeing. His color, a key
indicator of potential problems, had been ﬂuctuating—wavering be-
tween a healthy shade of pink and a duller, more troublesome hue.
   Suddenly, within a matter of seconds, the baby turned a deep
blue-black. The nurse’s stomach fell. Others in the ICU yelled for an
X-ray technician and a doctor.
   The gathering medical team was operating on the assumption
that the baby’s lung had collapsed, a common problem for babies on
ventilators. The team prepared for the typical response to a collapsed
lung, which involves piercing the chest and inserting a tube to suck
the air from around the collapsed lung, allowing it to reinﬂate.
   But the nurse thought it was a heart problem. As soon as she saw the
baby’s color—that awful blue-black—she suspected a pneumoperi-
cardium, a condition in which air ﬁlls the sac surrounding the heart,
pressing inward and preventing the heart from beating. The nurse
was terriﬁed, because the last time she witnessed a pneumoperi-
cardium the baby died before the problem could even be diagnosed.
                                S TO R I E S                         205

    The nurse tried to stop the frantic preparations to treat the lung.
“It’s the heart!” she said. But in response the other medical personnel
pointed to the heart monitor, which showed that the baby’s heart was
ﬁne; his heart rate was bouncing along steadily, at the normal new-
born rate of 130 beats per minute. The nurse, still insistent, pushed
their hands away and screamed for quiet as she lowered a stethoscope
to check for a heartbeat.
    There was no sound—the heart was not beating.
    She started doing compressions on the baby’s chest. The chief
neonatologist burst into the room and the nurse slapped a syringe in
his hand. “It’s a pneumopericardium,” she said. “Stick the heart.”
    The X-ray technician, who was ﬁnally receiving results from his
scan, conﬁrmed the nurse’s diagnosis. The neonatologist guided the
syringe into the heart and slowly released the air that had been stran-
gling the baby’s heart. The baby’s life was saved. His color slowly re-
turned to normal.
    Later, the group realized why the heart monitor misled them. It is
designed to measure electrical activity, not actual heartbeats. The
baby’s heart nerves were ﬁring—telling the heart to beat at the appro-
priate rate—but the air in the sac around the heart prevented the
heart from actually beating. Only when the nurse used the stetho-
scope—so she could hear whether the heart was pumping cor-
rectly—did it become clear that his heart had stopped.

    his story was collected by Gary Klein, a psychologist who studies
T   how people make decisions in high-pressure, high-stakes environ-
ments. He spends time with ﬁreﬁghters, air-trafﬁc controllers, power-
plant operators, and intensive-care workers. The story about the baby
appears in a chapter called “The Power of Stories,” in Klein’s book
Sources of Power.
    Klein says that, in the environments he studies, stories are told and
retold because they contain wisdom. Stories are effective teaching
206                         M A D E TO S T I C K

tools. They show how context can mislead people to make the wrong
decisions. Stories illustrate causal relationships that people hadn’t
recognized before and highlight unexpected, resourceful ways in
which people have solved problems.
    Medically, the story related above teaches important lessons. It in-
structs people in how to spot and treat the speciﬁc condition pneu-
mopericardium. More broadly, it warns medical personnel about
relying too much on machines. The heart monitor was functioning
perfectly well, but it couldn’t substitute for the insight of a human
being with a simple stethoscope.
    These medical lessons are not particularly useful to people who
don’t work in health care. But the story is inspiring to everyone. It’s a
story about a woman who stuck to her guns, despite implicit pressure
to conform to the group’s opinion. It’s an underdog story—in the hi-
erarchical hospital environment, it was the nurse who told the chief
neonatologist the right diagnosis. A life hinged on her willingness to
step out of her “proper place.”
    The story’s power, then, is twofold: It provides simulation (knowl-
edge about how to act) and inspiration (motivation to act). Note that
both beneﬁts, simulation and inspiration, are geared to generating ac-
tion. In the last few chapters, we’ve seen that a credible idea makes
people believe. An emotional idea makes people care. And in this
chapter we’ll see that the right stories make people act.

          Shop Talk in the Xerox Lunchroom

Photocopiers are perhaps the most complex machines that most of us
will ever use. What other everyday machine combines optical, me-
chanical, chemical, and electrical technologies? It’s a wonder copiers
work at all. And often they don’t. When there’s a problem—and it’s
not one that a cubicle-dweller can ﬁx by opening and shutting the
paper tray a few times—it takes a very sophisticated repair person to
troubleshoot the situation.
                               S TO R I E S                             207

   Researcher Julian Orr spent a lot of time among Xerox copier re-
pairmen and found that they spent a lot of time swapping stories.
Take the story below, which was told by a Xerox copier salesperson
over a game of cribbage at lunch. (We’ve provided some explanatory
comments in brackets.) The salesperson starts with a reference to a
recent mechanical change made by copier designers in an attempt to
prevent an ordinary power surge from frying multiple components:

   The new XER board conﬁguration won’t cook the board if you
   had an arcing dicorotron. Instead, it now trips the 24-Volt inter-
   lock on the Low Voltage Power Supply, and the machine will
   crash. But when it comes back up it’ll give you an E053 error.
   [This is a misleading error code that refers to an area of the ma-
   chine that is unrelated to the real problem.]
       That’s exactly what I had down there, at the end of the hall,
   and Weber and I ran for four hours trying to chase that thing.
   All it was was a bad dicorotron. We ﬁnally got it running long
   enough so that we got an E053 with an F066 and the minute we
   checked the dicorotrons we had one that was totally dead. . . .
   [Orr reports that there was a long pause for cribbage.] Yeah that
   was a fun one.

    hese cribbage-playing guys in the lunchroom are simply talking
T   shop, as we all do. A misleading E053 error may not constitute
drama in your world, but no doubt we all have our equivalents.
   Why do people talk shop? Part of the reason is simply Humanity
101—we want to talk to other people about the things that we have in
common. Xerox repairmen work with photocopiers, so they talk
about them. But that’s not the only factor at play here. For example,
the storyteller above could have shared the general arc of the story
without the details: “I had a real bear of a problem today—it took me
four hours to get to the bottom of it. I’m glad that one’s over.” Or he
208                        M A D E TO S T I C K

could have leapt straight to the punch line: “After hours of hassle, I
traced the problem back to a measly burned-out dicorotron. How was
your morning?”
    Instead, he tells a story that’s much more interesting to his lunch
partners. It has built-in drama—a misleading code leads two men on
a wild goose chase until they uncover, through lots of work and
thought, that the problem is simpler than they initially thought. Why
is this story format more interesting? Because it allows his lunch part-
ners to play along. He’s giving them enough information so that they
can mentally test out how they would have handled the situation.
The people in the room who weren’t aware of the misleading E053
code have now had their “E053 schema” ﬁxed. Before, there was only
one way to respond to an E053 code. Now, repairmen know to be
aware of the “misleading E053” scenario.
    In other words, this story is part entertainment and part instruc-
tion. Shop talk conveys important clues about how to respond to the
world. It teaches nurses not to have blind faith in heart monitors. It
teaches copy repairmen to beware of the misleading E053 code.
    But the stories above aren’t simply transferring nuggets of infor-
mation. The Xerox story is not functionally equivalent to an e-mail
sent around the company that contains the line “Watch out for false
E053 codes related to burned-out dicorotrons.” Something more pro-
found is happening here. It will take a bit of unpacking to reveal the
additional value that these stories bring.

                 The Un-passive Audience

Stories are strongly associated with entertainment—movies and
books and TV shows and magazines. When children say “Tell me a
story,” they’re begging for entertainment, not instruction.
    Being the “audience” for a story seems like a passive role—
audiences who get their stories from television are called “couch po-
                                S TO R I E S                         209

tatoes,” after all. But “passive” may be overstating the case. When we
read books, we have the sensation of being drawn into the author’s
world. When friends tell us stories, we instinctively empathize. When
we watch movies, we identify with the protagonists.
    But what if stories involve us in less intuitive, more dramatic
ways? One team of researchers has produced some exciting evidence
suggesting that the line between a story’s “audience” and a story’s
“protagonist” may be a bit blurry.

     hree psychologists interested in how people come to understand
T    stories created a few for their study participants to read on a com-
puter. They divided the participants into two groups. The ﬁrst group
read a story in which a critical object was associated with the main
character in the story—for instance, “John put on his sweatshirt be-
fore he went jogging.” The second group read a story in which the
same critical object was separated from the main character: “John
took off his sweatshirt before jogging.”
    Two sentences later, the story threw in a reference to the sweat-
shirt, and the computer was able to track how long it took people to
read that sentence. Something strange happened: The people who
thought John had taken off his sweatshirt before the jog took more
time to read the sentence than the people who thought John had it on.
    This result is subtle but fascinating. It implies that we create a
kind of geographic simulation of the stories we hear. It’s one thing to
say “Reading stories makes us see pictures in our head.” We’d all ﬁnd
that statement intuitive. It’s quite another thing to say that when John
left his sweatshirt behind, he left it back at the house in a more re-
mote place in our heads. For that to be true, we cannot simply visual-
ize the story on a movie screen in our heads; we must somehow
simulate it, complete with some analogue (however loose) to the spa-
tial relationships described in the story. These studies suggest that
210                            M A D E TO S T I C K

there’s no such thing as a passive audience. When we hear a story, our
minds move from room to room. When we hear a story, we simulate
it. But what good is simulation?

      group of UCLA students were asked to think about a current
A     problem in their lives, one that was “stressing them out” but was
potentially solvable in the future, such as a problem with schoolwork
or with a relationship.
    The students were told that the goal of the experiment was to help
them deal with the problem effectively, and they got some brief in-
structions on problem-solving: “It is important to think about the
problem, learn more about it, think about what you can do, take steps
to deal with it. . . . Resolving it could reduce your stress, make you
feel pleased with how you dealt with it, and help you grow from the
experience.” After receiving these instructions, this “control group”
was sent home and asked to report back to the lab a week later.
    A second group of students, the “event-simulation” group, were
kept in the lab. They were asked to mentally simulate how the prob-
lem had unfolded:

      We would like you to visualize how this problem arose. Visualize
      the beginning of the problem, going over in detail the ﬁrst inci-
      dent. . . . Go over the incidents as they occurred step by step. Vi-
      sualize the actions you took. Remember what you said, what you
      did. Visualize the environment, who was around, where you
      were.

The event-simulation participants had to retrace, step by step, the
events that led to their problem. Presumably, reviewing the chain of
causation might help the students think about how to ﬁx the prob-
lem, like programmers engaged in systematic debugging.
                                  S TO R I E S                                 211

  A third group, the “outcome-simulation” group, was asked to
mentally simulate a positive outcome emerging from the problem:

   Picture this problem beginning to resolve, you are coming out of
   the stressful situation. . . . Picture the relief you feel. Visualize the
   satisfaction you would feel at having dealt with the problem. Pic-
   ture the conﬁdence you feel in yourself, knowing that you have
   dealt successfully with the problem.

The outcome-simulators kept their focus on the desired future out-
come: What will it be like once this problem is behind me?
   After this initial exercise, both of the simulation groups were sent
home. Both groups were asked to spend ﬁve minutes every day re-
peating their simulations, and to report back to the lab a week later.
   Now it’s play-at-home time: Make a quick prediction about which
group of students fared best in coping with their problems. (Hint: It’s
not the control group.)
   Here’s the answer: The event-simulation group—the people who
simulated how the events unfolded—did better on almost every di-
mension. Simulating past events is much more helpful than simulat-
ing future outcomes. In fact, the gap between the groups opened up
immediately after the ﬁrst session in the lab. By the ﬁrst night, the
event-simulation people were already experiencing a positive mood
boost compared with the other two groups.
   When the groups returned a week later, the event simulators’ ad-
vantage had grown wider. They were more likely to have taken spe-
ciﬁc action to solve their problems. They were more likely to have
sought advice and support from others. They were more likely to re-
port that they had learned something and grown.
   You may ﬁnd these results a bit counterintuitive, because the pop-
psychology literature is full of gurus urging you to visualize success. It
turns out that a positive mental attitude isn’t quite enough to get the
212                         M A D E TO S T I C K

job done. Maybe ﬁnancial gurus shouldn’t be telling us to imagine
that we’re ﬁlthy rich; instead, they should be telling us to replay the
steps that led to our being poor.

       hy does mental simulation work? It works because we can’t
W      imagine events or sequences without evoking the same mod-
ules of the brain that are evoked in real physical activity. Brain scans
show that when people imagine a ﬂashing light, they activate the vi-
sual area of the brain; when they imagine someone tapping on their
skin, they activate tactile areas of the brain. The activity of mental
simulation is not limited to the insides of our heads. People who
imagine words that start with b or p can’t resist subtle lip movements,
and people who imagine looking at the Eiffel Tower can’t resist mov-
ing their eyes upward. Mental simulation can even alter visceral
physical responses: When people drink water but imagine that it’s
lemon juice, they salivate more. Even more surprisingly, when peo-
ple drink lemon juice but imagine that it’s water, they salivate less.
    Mental simulations help us manage emotions. There is a standard
treatment for phobias of various kinds—spiders, public speaking, air-
plane travel, and others. Patients are introduced to a relaxation pro-
cedure that inhibits anxiety, and then asked to visualize exposure to
the thing they fear. The ﬁrst visualizations start at the periphery of the
fear. For example, someone who’s afraid of air travel might start by
thinking about the drive to the airport. The therapist leads the patient
through a series of visualizations that get closer and closer to the heart
of the fear (“Now the airplanes’ engines are revving up on the run-
way, sounding louder and louder . . .”). Each time the visualizations
create anxiety, the person pauses for a moment and uses the relax-
ation technique to restore equilibrium.
    Notice that these visualizations focus on the events themselves—
the process, rather than the outcomes. No one has ever been cured of
a phobia by imagining how happy they’ll be when it’s gone.
                                 S TO R I E S                          213

    Mental simulation helps with problem-solving. Even in mundane
planning situations, mentally simulating an event helps us think of
things that we might otherwise have neglected. Imagining a trip to
the grocery store reminds us that we could drop off the dry cleaning at
the store in the same shopping center. Mental simulations help us
anticipate appropriate responses to future situations. Picturing a po-
tential argument with our boss, imagining what she will say, may lead
us to have the right words available when the time comes (and avoid
saying the wrong words). Research has suggested that mental re-
hearsal can prevent people from relapsing into bad habits such as
smoking, excessive drinking, or overeating. A man trying to kick a
drinking problem will be better off if he mentally rehearses how he
will handle Super Bowl Sunday: How should he respond when some-
one gets up for beers?
    Perhaps most surprisingly, mental simulation can also build skills.
A review of thirty-ﬁve studies featuring 3,214 participants showed
that mental practice alone—sitting quietly, without moving, and pic-
turing yourself performing a task successfully from start to ﬁnish—
improves performance signiﬁcantly. The results were borne out over
a large number of tasks: Mental simulation helped people weld better
and throw darts better. Trombonists improved their playing, and com-
petitive ﬁgure skaters improved their skating. Not surprisingly, men-
tal practice is more effective when a task involves more mental
activity (e.g., trombone playing) as opposed to physical activity (e.g.,
balancing), but the magnitude of gains from mental practice is large
on average: Overall, mental practice alone produced about two thirds
of the beneﬁts of actual physical practice.
    The takeaway is simple: Mental simulation is not as good as actu-
ally doing something, but it’s the next best thing. And, to circle back
to the world of sticky ideas, what we’re suggesting is that the right
kind of story is, effectively, a simulation. Stories are like ﬂight simula-
tors for the brain. Hearing the nurse’s heart-monitor story isn’t like
being there, but it’s the next best thing.
214                         M A D E TO S T I C K

    Or think about the Xerox E053 code story. Why is hearing this
story better than a warning about “misleading E053 indicators” in the
training manual? It’s better for precisely the reason that ﬂight simula-
tors are better for pilots than stacks of instructional ﬂash cards. The
more that training simulates the actions we must take in the world,
the more effective it will be.
    A story is powerful because it provides the context missing from
abstract prose. It’s back to the Velcro theory of memory, the idea that
the more hooks we put into our ideas, the better they’ll stick. The
E053 story builds in emotions—the frustration of failing to ﬁnd the
problem and being misled by the machine’s code. It builds in histori-
cal background—the idea that the recent change in the “XER board
conﬁguration” led to this new error. At the end, it delivers a kind of
meta-level moral: You shouldn’t have complete faith in the error
code. This “code skepticism” is something the repairmen can apply
to every future job they undertake.
    It’s easy for a doctor to treat appendicitis once it’s been diagnosed,
but the problem is learning to distinguish an inﬂamed appendix from
an upset stomach or food poisoning or an ulcer. Or think about be-
ginning algebra students, who can solve complex equations but grind
to a halt when they’re presented with a simple word problem that in-
volves exactly the same math. Problem X doesn’t always identify itself
as Problem X.
    This is the role that stories play—putting knowledge into a frame-
work that is more lifelike, more true to our day-to-day existence.
More like a ﬂight simulator. Being the audience for a story isn’t so
passive, after all. Inside, we’re getting ready to act.
                               S TO R I E S                              215

                              C L I N I C

           Dealing with Problem Students

THE SITUATION: Professors have to deal with the occasional nuisance

in class—an angry, aggressive, or challenging student. Many profes-
sors are caught by surprise and aren’t sure how to deal with the situ-
ation. In this Clinic we’ll compare two different messages that were
intended to share strategies for coping with these students.

                                • • •
MESSAGE 1: The ﬁrst message was produced by Indiana University as

a resource for instructors.

• Remain calm. Slow down and regularize your breathing. Don’t be-
  come defensive.
• Don’t ignore them. Attempt to diffuse their anger. Arrange to meet
  them during a break or after class. During the meeting, acknowl-
  edge the student’s emotions and listen. Talk in a professional and
  courteous manner.

COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 1:        Notice that there’s nothing unexpected
here—nothing that is uncommon sense. (And if dealing with difﬁcult
students is common sense, then why do we need to publish tips for
dealing with them?) Most of the advice—“Remain calm”; “Don’t be-
come defensive”; “Attempt to diffuse their anger”—is both too ab-
stract and too obvious to stick. (Few teachers believe that you should
freak out in response to a problem student.)

                                • • •
216                             M A D E TO S T I C K

      MESSAGE 2: The second message was posted, informally, to a news-

      group by a professor named Alyson Buckman, who wanted to share
      her experience with other teachers in the group:
          I had a student . . . who talked loudly and often in the back of the
      class, generally when I was speaking. I could hear his comments at
      the front of the room, and so could everyone else. He also disagreed
      with me on every point I made, no matter what it was. Students began
      very quickly to complain about his behavior in their journals and sug-
      gest methods, generally designed to humiliate, of dealing with him.
          I tried several things from the beginning, but ﬁnally called he and
      his conﬁdante in class up to the front at the end of class one day and
      scheduled appointments with me in my ofﬁce. I made sure I had wit-
      nesses to these appointments as well—one of the perks of being in a
      shared ofﬁce space. The conﬁdante, I believe, had been trapped into
      that role—the other student just utilized his body as a means to dis-
      ruption.
          When I met with the bully, he came in with sunglasses on and a
      totally deﬁant behavior. I started with “Why don’t you tell me what’s
      going on in the back of the room . . .” and he responded, “I disagree
      with you.” I attempted to talk about this and met with silence.
          It was not until I told him that other students were complaining
      and suggesting treatments for the situation that he listened. His body
      language totally changed as did his manner. I didn’t have a problem
      with him from then on. My basic understanding of this little teaching
      lesson was that students who display contempt for the teacher might
      very well be brought into check by other students. After all, he
      thought he was showing off for them and found that they didn’t want
      to hear or see it.

      COMMENTS ON MESSAGE 2: This story allows us to simulate the process

      of dealing with a problem student. We follow along with Buckman as
                                 S TO R I E S                              217

she works her way through the problem. Notice that many of the bul-
leted points from the ﬁrst message are shown, rather than told, in the
story. The professor attempts to “diffuse” the student’s anger. She
arranges “to talk with the student in a more private setting.” She stays
calm throughout.
    The solution—in essence, using peer pressure to get the student
under control—is both concrete and unexpected. It’s uncommon
sense. We might have expected a problem student not to care about
what his peers thought. We empathize with Buckman, which makes
us care about the outcome. It’s easier to care about a person than a
list of bulleted instructions.

                            S C O R E C A R D

           Checklist             Message 1             Message 2
           Simple                     -                    -
           Unexpected                 -                   
           Concrete                                      
           Credible                   -                    -
           Emotional                  -                   
           Story                      -                   

PUNCH LINE : A few stories like Professor Buckman’s—ﬂight simulators

for reining in problem students—would be much more interesting
and effective in training professors than the list of bullet points in
Message 1. This solution is not intuitive; nine out of ten training de-
partments would create Message 1. We must ﬁght the temptation to
skip directly to the “tips” and leave out the story.
218                         M A D E TO S T I C K

      Stories as Inspiration: The Tale of Jared

In the late 1990s, the fast-food giant Subway launched a campaign to
tout the healthiness of a new line of sandwiches. The campaign was
based on a statistic: Seven subs under six grams of fat. As far as statis-
tics go, that’s pretty good—a spoonful of alliteration helps the medi-
cine go down. But “7 Under 6” didn’t stick like Subway’s next
campaign, which focused on the remarkable story of a college stu-
dent named Jared Fogle.
    Jared had a serious weight problem. By his junior year in college,
he had ballooned to 425 pounds. He wore size XXXXXXL shirts, the
largest size available in big-and-tall clothing stores. His pants had a
60-inch waist.
    Jared’s father, a general practitioner in Indianapolis, had been
warning his son about his weight for years without much success.
Then, one day in December, Jared’s roommate, a premed major, no-
ticed that Jared’s ankles were swollen. He correctly diagnosed edema,
a condition in which the body retains ﬂuid because the blood can’t
transport enough liquid; it often leads to diabetes, heart problems,
and even early heart attacks. Jared’s father told him that, given his
weight and general health, he might not live past thirty-ﬁve.
    By the spring break following his December hospital visit, Jared
had decided to slim down. Motivated by the “7 Under 6” campaign,
he had his ﬁrst turkey club. He liked the sandwich, and eventually he
developed his own, all-Subway diet: a foot-long veggie sub for lunch
and a six-inch turkey sub for dinner.
    After three months of the “Subway diet,” as he called it, he
stepped on the scale. It read 330 pounds. He had dropped almost 100
pounds in three months by eating at Subway. He stuck with the diet
for several more months, sometimes losing as much as a pound a day.
As soon as his health permitted, he began walking as much as he
could—not taking the bus to classes and even walking up stairs rather
than taking the department-store escalator.
                               S TO R I E S                             219

   The story of how Jared’s inspiring weight-loss became a national
phenomenon begins with an article that appeared in the Indiana
Daily Student in April 1999. It was written by Ryan Coleman, a for-
mer dormmate of Jared’s. Coleman saw Jared after he had lost weight
and almost didn’t recognize him. He wrote movingly about what it
was like for Jared to be obese:

   When Fogle registered for a class, he didn’t base his choice on
   professor or class time like most students. He based which classes
   to register on whether he could ﬁt into the classroom seats.
       When most folks worried whether they could ﬁnd a parking
   spot close to campus, Fogle worried whether he could ﬁnd a park-
   ing spot without a car already parked nearby—he needed the extra
   room in order to open the driver’s side door so he could get out.

The article ended with this quote from Jared: “Subway helped save
my life and start over. I can’t ever repay that.” This may have been the
ﬁrst time that a fast-food chain was credited with transforming some-
one’s life in a profoundly positive way.
    Then a reporter at Men’s Health magazine, who was writing an ar-
ticle called “Crazy Diets That Work,” happened to see the Indiana
Daily article about Jared, and he included a blurb about a “subway
sandwich diet.” The article didn’t mention Jared’s name or even
where he had bought the sandwiches; it simply referred generically to
“subway sandwiches.”
    The key link in the chain was a Subway franchise owner named
Bob Ocwieja, who spotted the article and thought it had potential.
He took time out of his schedule to track down the creative director at
Subway’s Chicago ad agency, a man named Richard Coad, and sug-
gested that he check out the article. Coad says, “I kind of laughed at
ﬁrst, but we followed up on it.”
    Jared is the hero of the weight-loss story, but Ocwieja and Coad
are the heroes of our idea story. Ocwieja is a hero for spotting poten-
220                        M A D E TO S T I C K

tial in a story, and Coad is a hero for spending the resources to follow
up on it.
    Coad and Barry Krause, the president of the advertising agency
called Hal Riney, sent an intern to Bloomington, Indiana, with vague
instructions to ﬁnd the mystery sandwich-diet guy—and also to ﬁnd
out whose sandwiches he had been eating. It could easily have turned
out that Jared had been dining at Flo’s Sub Shop.
    The intern wasn’t exactly sure what he was supposed to do. His
tentative plan was to show up in Bloomington, look through the Yel-
low Pages, and start dropping by the town’s sub shops. Fortunately for
the intern, the operation never became that complex. The ﬁrst sub
shop the intern visited was a Subway franchise close to campus. He
launched into his description of the mystery eater, and about one sen-
tence into the description the counter worker said, “Oh, that’s Jared.
He comes here every day.”
    The intern returned victorious. Jared was real, and he’d shed
pounds by eating at Subway. The agency thought, We’ve got a great
story on our hands.
    And that’s when the Jared story hit another hurdle. Ad agency
president Krause called Subway’s marketing director to unveil the
tale of Jared, but the marketing director wasn’t impressed. He had
just started his job at Subway, having previously worked for another
fast-food company. “I’ve seen that before,” he said. “Fast foods can’t
do healthy.” The marketing director preferred to launch a campaign
focused on the taste of Subway’s sandwiches.
    To satisfy Krause, though, the director ran the Jared campaign
idea by Subway’s lawyers. The lawyers, predictably, said a Jared cam-
paign couldn’t be done. It would appear to be making a medical
claim that might create a liability, blah blah blah. The only way to
avoid any liability was to run disclaimers like “We don’t recommend
this diet. See your doctor ﬁrst.”
    The idea seemed dead. But Krause and Coad weren’t ready to
                               S TO R I E S                        221

give up. Subway, like many franchise-based ﬁrms, runs ad campaigns
at two levels: national and regional. While the national Subway ofﬁce
had vetoed Jared, some regional Subway franchisees expressed inter-
est in the story and were willing to run the ads using regional adver-
tising money.
    Then came another hurdle: Franchisees didn’t usually pay to
make the actual commercials; they just paid to run the commercials
in their regions. The commercials were generally funded by the na-
tional ofﬁce. So who would pay for the Jared commercials?
    Krause decided to make the spots for free. He said, “For the ﬁrst
and only time in my career, I gave the go-ahead to shoot an ad that we
weren’t going to be paid for.”
    The ad ﬁrst ran on January 1, 2000—just in time for the annual
epidemic of diet-related New Year’s resolutions. It showed Jared in
front of his home. “This is Jared,” the announcer said. “He used to
weigh 425 pounds”—we see a photo of Jared in his old 60-inch-waist
pants—“but today he weighs 180 thanks to what he calls the Subway
diet.” The announcer describes Jared’s meal plan, then concludes,
“That, combined with a lot of walking, worked for Jared. We’re not
saying this is for everyone. You should check with your doctor before
starting any diet program. But it worked for Jared.”
    The next day, Krause said, the phones started ringing in the morn-
ing and didn’t let up. USA Today called, ABC and Fox News called.
On the third day, Oprah called. “I’ve talked to a lot of marketers over
the years who wanted to get media attention” Krause said. “No one
ever got anywhere by lavishing calls on Oprah. The only time I’ve suc-
ceeded in my career with Oprah was with Jared, and Oprah called us.”
    A few days later, Subway’s national ofﬁce called Krause, asking if
the ad could be aired nationally. In 1999, Subway’s sales were ﬂat. In
2000, sales jumped 18 percent, and they jumped another 16 percent
in 2001. At the time, other (much smaller) sandwich chains such as
Schlotzsky’s and Quiznos were growing at about 7 percent per year.
222                           M A D E TO S T I C K

                                   .   .   .

    he Jared story has a morsel of simulation value. It makes it rela-
T   tively easy to imagine what it would be like to embrace the Sub-
way diet—the lunch order, the dinner order, the walking in between.
But this story is not so much a ﬂight simulator as it is a pep talk. This
huge guy lost 245 pounds on a diet that he invented! Wow! The story
provides a good kick in the pants for anyone who’s been struggling to
lose that last 10 pounds.
    Like the nurse story that opened the chapter, this story, too, has
emotional resonance. Even skinny people who aren’t interested in di-
eting will be inspired by Jared’s tale. He fought big odds and pre-
vailed through perseverance. And this is the second major payoff that
stories provide: inspiration. Inspiration drives action, as does simula-
tion.
    By the way, note how much better this campaign functions than
the “7 Under 6” campaign. Both campaigns are mining the same
turf—they both highlight the availability of nutritious, low-fat sand-
wiches. They both hold out the promise of weight loss. But one cam-
paign was a modest success and one was a sensation.
    What we have argued in this book—and we hope we’ve made you
a believer by now—is that you could have predicted in advance that
Jared would be the winner in these two campaigns.
    Note how well the Jared story does on the SUCCESs checklist:

      • It’s simple: Eat subs and lose weight. (It may be oversimpli-
        ﬁed, frankly, since the meatball sub with extra mayo won’t
        help you lose weight.)
      • It’s unexpected: A guy lost a ton of weight by eating fast food!
        This story violates our schema of fast food, a schema that’s
        more consistent with the picture of a fat Jared than a skinny
        Jared.
      • It’s concrete: Think of the oversized pants, the massive loss
                                S TO R I E S                          223

     of girth, the diet composed of particular sandwiches. It’s
     much more like an Aesop fable than an abstraction.
   • It’s credible: It has the same kind of antiauthority truthful-
     ness that we saw with the Pam Lafﬁn antismoking campaign.
     The guy who wore 60-inch pants is giving us diet advice!
   • It’s emotional: We care more about an individual, Jared,
     than about a mass. And it taps into profound areas of Mas-
     low’s hierarchy—it’s about a guy who reached his potential
     with the help of a sub shop.
   • It’s a story: Our protagonist overcomes big odds to triumph.
     It inspires the rest of us to do the same.

    By contrast, let’s size up “7 Under 6” on the checklist. It’s simple,
but notice that it has a much less compelling core message. Its core
message is “We’ve got a variety of low-fat sandwiches,” versus Jared’s
“Eat Subway, lose weight, change your life.” The ﬁrst message sells
drill bits; the second tells you how to hang your kid’s picture.
    “7 Under 6” is far less unexpected. Jared’s story packs a wallop
because it violates the powerful schema that fast food is fatty. If
“7 Under 6” is attacking the same schema, it makes the point much
more tangentially.
    “7 Under 6” isn’t concrete. Numbers aren’t concrete. It’s credible
only because it hasn’t set the bar very high—not many of us will be
ﬂoored to hear that a sandwich has less than 6 grams of fat, so we
don’t need much convincing. It’s not emotional, and it’s not a story.
    Any reader of this book could have analyzed these two multi-
million-dollar national ad campaigns and chosen the right one, just
by laying them side by side on the SUCCESs checklist. (Note,
though, that nonreaders might not be so savvy. The national advertis-
ing director, who had a lifetime of experience in trying to make ideas
stick, wanted to walk away from the Jared story.)
    Another compelling aspect of the Jared tale is how many people
had to work hard to make it a reality. Look at how many unlikely
224                        M A D E TO S T I C K

events had to take place in order for Jared to hit TV: The Subway
store manager had to be proactive enough to bring the magazine ar-
ticle to the creative director’s attention. (Would your frontline peo-
ple do this?) The creative director had to be savvy enough to invest
resources in what could have been a fruitless errand. (Was this really
an errand with a good return on investment?) The president of the
ad agency had to make the spot for free because he knew he was onto
something big. (Free!) The national Subway marketing team had to
swallow its pride and realize that it had made a mistake by not em-
bracing Jared earlier.
    These are not trivial actions. This behavior is not routine. How
many great ideas have been extinguished because someone in the mid-
dle—a link between the source of the idea and its eventual outlet—
dropped the ball? In the normal world, a franchise owner would have
been amused by the Jared tale. He would have tacked it up on the bul-
letin board, on the wall of the hallway leading to the bathroom, as a
source of amusement for his employees. And that would have been the
pinnacle of the Jared tale.
    Jared reminds us that we don’t always have to create sticky ideas.
Spotting them is often easier and more useful. What if history teachers
were diligent about sharing teaching methods that worked brilliantly
in reaching students? What if we could count on the volunteers of
nonproﬁt organizations to be on the lookout for symbolic events or en-
counters that might inspire other people in the organization? What if
we could count on our bosses to take a gamble on important ideas?
You don’t have to admire Subway sandwiches to admire the process of
bringing a great idea to life.

                     The Art of Spotting

How do we make sure that we don’t let a great idea, a potential Jared,
ﬂoat right under our nose? Spotting isn’t hard, but it isn’t natural,
either. Ideas don’t ﬂag themselves to get our attention. We have to
                               S TO R I E S                         225

consciously look for the right ones. So what is it, exactly, that we
should look for?
    In the introduction of the book, we discussed a study showing that
laypeople who’d been trained to use classic ad templates could create
ads that were vastly superior to those developed by an untrained
group. Just as there are ad templates that have been proven effective,
so, too, there are story templates that have been proven effective.
Learning the templates gives our spotting ability a huge boost.
    Warren Buffett likes to tell the story of Rose Blumkin, a woman
who manages one of the businesses that he invested in. Blumkin is a
Russian woman who, at age twenty-three, ﬁnagled her way past a bor-
der guard to come to America. She couldn’t speak English and had
received no formal schooling.
    Blumkin started a furniture business in 1937 with $500 that she
had saved. Almost ﬁfty years later, her furniture store was doing $100
million in annual revenue. At age one hundred, she was still on the
ﬂoor seven days a week. She actually postponed her one-hundredth
birthday party until an evening when the store was closed. At one
point her competitors sued her for violating the fair-trade agreement
because her prices were so much lower. They thought she was selling
at a loss in order to put them out of business. Buffett says, “She
demonstrated to the court that she could proﬁtably sell carpet at a
huge discount and sold the judge $1,400 worth of carpet.”
    The story of Rose Blumkin isn’t from the book Chicken Soup for
the Soul, but it could be. The Chicken Soup series has become a pub-
lishing phenomenon, with more than 4.3 million books sold and
thirty-seven Chicken Soup titles in print, including Chicken Soup for
the Father’s Soul, Chicken Soup for the Nurse’s Soul, and Chicken
Soup for the NASCAR Soul.
    The Chicken Soup books trafﬁc in inspirational stories—stories
that uplift, motivate, energize. In that sense, these stories are the
opposite of urban legends, which tend to reinforce a cynical, pes-
simistic, or paranoid view of the world. (Strangers will steal your kid-
226                         M A D E TO S T I C K

neys! Snapple supports the KKK! McDonald’s puts worms in its
burgers!)
    What’s amazing about these stories is that the authors didn’t write
them—they merely spotted and collected them. We wanted to un-
derstand what made these inspirational stories tick. We pored over in-
spirational stories—hundreds of stories, both from Chicken Soup and
elsewhere—looking for underlying similarities.
    Aristotle believed there were four primary dramatic plots: Simple
Tragic, Simple Fortunate, Complex Tragic, and Complex Fortunate.
Robert McKee, the screenwriting guru, lists twenty-ﬁve types of stories
in his book: the modern epic, the disillusionment plot, and so on. When
we ﬁnished sorting through a big pile of inspirational stories—a much
narrower domain—we came to the conclusion that there are three basic
plots: the Challenge plot, the Connection plot, and the Creativity plot.
    These three basic plots can be used to classify more than 80 per-
cent of the stories that appear in the original Chicken Soup collec-
tion. Perhaps more surprisingly, they can also be used to classify more
than 60 percent of the stories published by People magazine about
people who aren’t celebrities. If an average person makes it into Peo-
ple, it’s usually because he or she has an inspiring story for the rest of
us. If our goal is to energize and inspire others, these three plots are
the right place to start. (By the way, if you’re a more jaded type of per-
son who ﬁnds the Chicken Soup series treacly rather than inspira-
tional, you’ll still ﬁnd value in the three plot templates. You can
always turn down the volume on the plots a bit.)

THE CHALLENGE PLOT
The story of David and Goliath is the classic Challenge plot. A pro-
tagonist overcomes a formidable challenge and succeeds. David fells
a giant with his homemade slingshot. There are variations of the
Challenge plot that we all recognize: the underdog story, the rags-to-
riches story, the triumph of sheer willpower over adversity.
                              S TO R I E S                        227

    The key element of a Challenge plot is that the obstacles seem
daunting to the protagonist. Jared slimming down to 180 pounds is a
Challenge plot. Jared’s 210-pound neighbor shaving an inch off his
waistline is not. We’ve all got a huge mental inventory of Challenge
plot stories. The American hockey team beating the heavily favored
Russians in the 1980 Olympics. The Alamo. Horatio Alger tales. The
American Revolution. Seabiscuit. The Star Wars movies. Lance Arm-
strong. Rosa Parks.
    Challenge plots are inspiring even when they’re much less dra-
matic and historical than these examples. The Rose Blumkin story
doesn’t involve a famous character. Challenge plots are inspiring in a
deﬁned way. They inspire us by appealing to our perseverance and
courage. They make us want to work harder, take on new challenges,
overcome obstacles. Somehow, after you’ve heard about Rose Blum-
kin postponing her one-hundredth birthday party until an evening
when her store was closed, it’s easier to clean out your garage. Chal-
lenge plots inspire us to act.

THE CONNECTION PLOT
Today the phrase “good Samaritan” refers to someone who voluntar-
ily helps others in times of distress. The original story of the Good
Samaritan from the Bible is certainly consistent with this deﬁnition,
but it’s even more profound.
    The story begins with a lawyer who approached Jesus with a ques-
tion about how to get to heaven. The lawyer was more interested in
testing Jesus than in learning from him. When Jesus asked the lawyer
what he thought the answer was, the lawyer gave a reply that included
the notion “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.” Jesus accepted
the lawyer’s answer. Then the lawyer (perhaps wanting to limit the
number of people he’s on the hook to love) says, “And who is my
neighbor?”
    In response, Jesus told a story:
228                            M A D E TO S T I C K

      “A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, when he fell
      into the hands of robbers. They stripped him of his clothes, beat
      him and went away, leaving him half dead.
          “A priest happened to be going down the same road, and
      when he saw the man, he passed by on the other side. So too, a
      Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the
      other side.
          “But a Samaritan, as he traveled, came where the man was;
      and when he saw him, he took pity on him. He went to him and
      bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he put the
      man on his own donkey, took him to an inn and took care of him.
      The next day he took out two silver coins and gave them to the
      innkeeper. ‘Look after him,’ he said, ‘and when I return, I will re-
      imburse you for any extra expense you may have.’
          “Which of these three do you think was a neighbor to the man
      who fell into the hands of robbers?”
          The lawyer replied, “The one who had mercy on him.”
          Jesus told him, “Go and do likewise.”

    What’s missing from this tale, for modern-day readers, is a bit of
context. The Samaritan in the story was not simply a nice guy. He was
a nice guy crossing a huge social gulf in helping the wounded man.
At the time, there was tremendous hostility between Samaritans and
Jews (all the other main characters in the story). A modern-day anal-
ogy to the outcast status of the Samaritan might be an “atheist biker
gang member.” The lesson of the story is clear: Good neighbors show
mercy and compassion, and not just to people in their own group.
    This is what a Connection plot is all about. It’s a story about peo-
ple who develop a relationship that bridges a gap—racial, class, eth-
nic, religious, demographic, or otherwise. The Connection plot
doesn’t have to deal with life-and-death stakes, as does the Good
Samaritan. The connection can be as trivial as a bottle of a Coke, as
in the famous Mean Joe Greene commercial. A scrawny young white
                               S TO R I E S                        229

fan encounters a towering famous black athlete. A bottle of Coke
links them. It ain’t the Good Samaritan, but it’s clearly a Connection
plot.
    Connection plots are also fabulous for romance stories—think of
Romeo and Juliet (or the top-grossing movie of all time, Titanic). All
Connection plots inspire us in social ways. They make us want to
help others, be more tolerant of others, work with others, love others.
The Connection plot is the most common kind of plot found in the
Chicken Soup series.
    Where Challenge plots involve overcoming challenges, Connec-
tion plots are about our relationships with other people. If you’re
telling a story at the company Christmas party, it’s probably best to
use the Connection plot. If you’re telling a story at the kickoff party
for a new project, go with the Challenge plot.

THE CREATIVITY PLOT
The third major type of inspirational story is the Creativity plot. The
prototype might be the story of the apple that falls on Newton’s head,
inspiring his theory of gravity. The Creativity plot involves someone
making a mental breakthrough, solving a long-standing puzzle, or at-
tacking a problem in an innovative way. It’s the MacGyver plot.
    Ingersoll-Rand is a giant company that makes nonsexy products
such as industrial grinders, used in auto shops to sand down auto bod-
ies. Historically, Ingersoll-Rand had been slow at bringing new prod-
ucts to market. One employee, frustrated by the average four-year
product life cycle, said, “It was taking us longer to introduce a new
product than it took our nation to ﬁght World War II.”
    Ingersoll-Rand decided to do something about the slow develop-
ment cycle. The company created a project team whose goal was to
produce a new grinder in a year—one quarter the usual time. Stan-
dard theories of organizational culture would have predicted a slim
chance of success. The grinder team, however, did a lot of things
right, including the use of stories to emphasize the group’s new atti-
230                        M A D E TO S T I C K

tude and culture. One story, for instance, involved a critical decision
about whether to build the new grinder’s casing out of plastic or
metal. Plastic would be more comfortable for the customer, but
would it hold up as well as metal?
    The traditional Ingersoll-Rand method of solving this problem
would have been to conduct protracted, careful studies of the tensile
and compression properties of both materials. But this was the Grinder
Team. They were supposed to act quickly. A few members of the team
cooked up a less formal testing procedure. While on an off-site cus-
tomer visit, the team members tied a sample of each material to the
back bumper of their rental car, then drove around the parking lot with
the materials dragging behind. They kept this up until the police came
and told them to knock it off. The verdict was that the new plastic com-
posite held up just as well as the traditional metal. Decision made.
    In the history of the Grinder Team, this story has become known
as the Drag Test. The Drag Test is a Creativity plot that reinforced the
team’s new culture. The Drag Test implied, “We still need to get the
right data to make decisions. We just need to do it a lot quicker.”
    The famous explorer Ernest Shackleton faced such enormous
odds in his explorations (obviously a classic Challenge plot) that
unity among his men was mission-critical. A mutiny could leave
everyone dead. Shackleton came up with a creative solution for deal-
ing with the whiny, complaining types. He assigned them to sleep in
his own tent. When people separated into groups to work on chores,
he grouped the complainers with him. Through his constant pres-
ence, he minimized their negative inﬂuence. Creativity plots make
us want to do something different, to be creative, to experiment with
new approaches.

   he goal of reviewing these plots is not to help us invent stories.
T  Unless you write ﬁction or advertisements, that won’t help much.
The goal here is to learn how to spot the stories that have potential.
                               S TO R I E S                        231

When the Jared article hits our desk, we want to spot the crucial ele-
ments immediately. Guy faces huge obstacles and overcomes them—
it’s a Challenge plot. Challenge plots inspire people to take on
challenges and work harder. If that feeling is consistent with the goal
you want to achieve, run with the story; don’t tack it on the bulletin
board.
     If you’re running the Grinder Team, and you’re trying to reinvent
the company culture, then you need to be on the lookout for Creativ-
ity plots. When you hear that some of your men dragged metal
around a parking lot, you’ve found something.
     Know what you’re looking for. You don’t need to make stuff up,
you don’t need to exaggerate or be as melodramatic as the Chicken
Soup tales. (The Drag Test isn’t melodramatic.) You just need to rec-
ognize when life is giving you a gift.

                Stories at the World Bank

In 1996, Stephen Denning was working for the World Bank, the in-
ternational institution that lends money to developing countries for
infrastructure projects such as building schools, roads, and water-
treatment facilities. At the time, he managed the bank’s work in
Africa—the third-largest area of the bank—and seemed to be on a fast
track to the top of the organization.
    Then one of his two main mentors retired and the second left.
Shortly thereafter he was asked to step down from his Africa position
and “look into the issue of information.” His superiors asked him to
explore the area of knowledge management. Denning said, “Now
this was a bank which cared about ﬂows of money, not information.
The new assignment was the equivalent of being sent to corporate
Siberia.”
    The task was not just organizationally unattractive, it was daunt-
ing. The World Bank knew a lot about how to achieve results in de-
veloping nations, but that information was scattered about the
232                        M A D E TO S T I C K

organization. The World Bank conducted projects in dozens of coun-
tries all over the world—and while there was a central bureaucracy,
much of the operational know-how was naturally at the local level.
Each project was, in a sense, its own universe. A water-treatment guru
in Zambia might have ﬁgured out a great way to handle local politi-
cal negotiations, but he was unlikely to have the opportunity to share
it with a highway-construction guru in Bangladesh. Neither manager
would know the other existed, unless they happened to be in the
same circle of friends or former colleagues.
    A month after accepting his assignment, Denning had lunch with
a colleague who had just returned from Zambia. This colleague was
working on a project to improve health care, particularly for mothers
and children. While he was in Zambia he had met a health-care
worker in Kamana—a small town 360 miles from Zambia’s capital—
who was struggling to ﬁght malaria in the community and was trying
to ﬁnd information on how to combat the disease. The worker had
found a way to log on to the Internet and had discovered the answers
he needed on the website of the Centers for Disease Control (CDC)
in Atlanta. (Keep in mind that this was in 1996, when the Internet
would not have been the obvious ﬁrst stop for someone in search of
information, especially in Africa.)
    Denning says that he didn’t give the story much thought at the
time; it was just an interesting anecdote about the resourcefulness of
a colleague. Later, it dawned on him that the Zambia story was a per-
fect example of the power of knowledge management. Someone in
charge of a vital operation needed information. He went looking for it,
found it, and, as a result, was able to act more effectively. That’s the
vision of knowledge management—except that the health-care worker
shouldn’t have been forced to conduct a trial-and-error search, ending
at the CDC’s website, to get the right information. He should have
been able to tap the knowledge of the World Bank.
    Denning began to incorporate the story into conversations with
colleagues, stressing why the World Bank ought to make knowledge
                               S TO R I E S                        233

management a serious priority. Weeks later, he had an opportunity to
speak to a committee of senior management. He’d have only ten to
twelve minutes on the agenda. In that time he’d have to introduce a
new organizational strategy and win the group’s endorsement. A tall
order.
    First, Denning set up the problem: the difﬁculties that the World
Bank had experienced in pooling its knowledge and the sorry state of
its information systems. Then, rather than doing what most people
would have done—i.e., rehashing the discipline of knowledge man-
agement and quoting some authorities about the importance of
knowledge management for the twenty-ﬁrst century—Denning did
something different. He told the Zambia story.
    Immediately after the presentation, two executives raced up to
Denning and began to bombard him with all the things he should be
doing to get the program off the ground. Denning thought, “This is a
very strange conversation. Up till ten minutes ago, these people
weren’t willing to give me the time of day, and now I’m not doing
enough to implement their idea. This is horrible! They’ve stolen my
idea!” And then he had a happier thought. “How wonderful! They’ve
stolen my idea. It’s become their idea!”

      few years later, after Denning had left the World Bank, he de-
A     voted himself to spreading the lessons he’d learned about
storytelling. In 2001, he wrote a very insightful book called The
Springboard. Denning deﬁnes a springboard story as a story that lets
people see how an existing problem might change. Springboard sto-
ries tell people about possibilities.
    One major advantage of springboard stories is that they combat
skepticism and create buy-in. Denning says that the idea of telling
stories initially violated his intuition. He had always believed in the
value of being direct, and he worried that stories were too ambiguous,
too peripheral, too anecdotal. He thought, “Why not spell out the
234                         M A D E TO S T I C K

message directly? Why go to the trouble and difﬁculty of trying to
elicit the listener’s thinking indirectly, when it would be so much sim-
pler if I come straight out in an abstract directive? Why not hit the lis-
teners between the eyes?”
    The problem is that when you hit listeners between the eyes they
respond by ﬁghting back. The way you deliver a message to them is a
cue to how they should react. If you make an argument, you’re im-
plicitly asking them to evaluate your argument—judge it, debate it,
criticize it—and then argue back, at least in their minds. But with a
story, Denning argues, you engage the audience—you are involving
people with the idea, asking them to participate with you.
    Denning talks about engaging the “little voice inside the head,”
the voice that would normally debate the speaker’s points. “The con-
ventional view of communication is to ignore the little voice inside
the head and hope it stays quiet and that the message will somehow
get through,” Denning says. But he has a different recommendation:
“Don’t ignore the little voice. . . . Instead, work in harmony with it.
Engage it by giving it something to do. Tell a story in a way that elic-
its a second story from the little voice.”
    In addition to creating buy-in, springboard stories mobilize people
to act. Stories focus people on potential solutions. Telling stories with
visible goals and barriers shifts the audience into a problem-solving
mode. Clearly, the amount of “problem-solving” we do varies across
stories. We don’t watch Titanic and start brainstorming about im-
proved iceberg-spotting systems. But we do empathize with the main
characters and start cheering them on when they confront their prob-
lems: “Look out behind you!” “Tell him off now!” “Don’t open that
door!”
    But springboard stories go beyond having us problem-solve for the
main character. A springboard story helps us problem-solve for our-
selves. A springboard story is an exercise in mass customization—
each audience member uses the story as a springboard to slightly
different destinations.
                               S TO R I E S                         235

   After Denning told the Zambia story, one of the executives at the
meeting took the idea of knowledge management to the president of
the World Bank, arguing that it was the future of the organization.
Denning was invited to present his ideas to the bank’s top leaders, in-
cluding the president. By the end of the year, the president had an-
nounced that knowledge management was one of the bank’s top
priorities.

                The Conference Storybook

We started the chapter with the nurse story, which comes from the re-
searcher Gary Klein. Klein tells another story that provides a good
summary of the ground we’ve covered.
    The organizer of a conference once asked Klein’s ﬁrm to sum up
the results of a conference. The organizer wanted a useful summary
of the conference—more compact than a transcript and more coher-
ent than an idiosyncratic collection of the presenters’ PowerPoint
slides.
    Klein’s ﬁrm assigned one person to monitor each of the confer-
ence’s ﬁve parallel tracks. The monitors attended each panel, and
each time someone told a story they jotted it down. At the end of the
conference, the monitors compared notes and found that, as Klein
said, they had compiled a set of stories that were “funny, and tragic,
and exciting.” The group structured and organized the stories and
sent the packet to the conference organizer.
    She was ecstatic. She found the packet much more vivid and use-
ful than the typical conference takeaway: a set of dry, jargon-ﬁlled ab-
stracts. She even requested funds from her organization to convert
the notes into a book. Meanwhile, as a courtesy, she sent the sum-
mary notes to all of the conference presenters.
    They were furious. They were insulted to have the stories scooped
out of their overall structure—they didn’t want to be remembered as
people who told a bunch of stories and anecdotes. They felt that
236                         M A D E TO S T I C K

they’d invested countless hours into distilling their experiences into a
series of recommendations. Indeed, their abstracts—which had been
submitted to the conference organizers—were ﬁlled with tidbits of
wisdom, such as “Keep the lines of communication open” and
“Don’t wait too long when problems are building up.”
    Klein said, “We want to explain to them how meaningless these
slogans are in contrast to stories, such as the one that showed how
they had kept the lines of communication open during a difﬁcult in-
cident in which a plant was shut down.” But the presenters were
adamant, and the project was abandoned.
    This story is one of our favorites in the book, because the dynam-
ics are so clear. We’re not trying to portray the presenters as bad, idea-
hating people. Put yourself in their shoes. You’ve created this
amazing presentation, summarizing years of your work, and your
goal is to help people master a complex structure that you’ve spent
years constructing. You’ve erected an amazing intellectual ediﬁce!
Then Klein’s crew approaches your ediﬁce, plucks a few bricks out of
the wall, and tries to pass them off as the sum of all your labors. The
nerve!
    The problem, of course, is that it’s impossible to transfer an ediﬁce
in a ninety-minute presentation. The best you can do is convey some
building blocks. But you can’t pluck building blocks from the roof,
which is exactly what you’re doing with a recommendation like
“Keep the lines of communication open.”
    Suppose you’re a manager at Nordstrom, addressing a conference
of your peers. The ﬁnal slide in your presentation might read,
“Lessons from Nordstrom: In retail, outstanding customer service is a
key source of competitive advantage.” While discussing your fourth
slide you might have mentioned, as a humorous aside, the Nordie
who gift-wrapped a present bought at Macy’s. These jokers from
Klein’s ﬁrm want to keep your gift-wrapping story but drop your
punch line. And they’re absolutely right.
                                S TO R I E S                          237

    In the “Simple” and “Unexpected” chapters, we said that good
messages must move from common sense to uncommon sense. In
contrast, there’s nothing but common sense in recommendations
such as “Keep the lines of communication open” and “Don’t wait too
long when problems are building up.” (Klein comments that these
lessons are presumably designed for people who would rather close
lines of communication and sit around when they’re facing a daunt-
ing problem.)
    Once again, the Curse of Knowledge has bewitched these presen-
ters. When they share their lessons—“Keep the lines of communica-
tion open”—they’re hearing a song, ﬁlled with passion and emotion,
inside their heads. They’re remembering the experiences that taught
them those lessons—the struggles, the political battles, the missteps,
the pain. They are tapping. But they forget that the audience can’t
hear the same tune they hear.
    Stories can almost single-handedly defeat the Curse of Knowl-
edge. In fact, they naturally embody most of the SUCCESs frame-
work. Stories are almost always Concrete. Most of them have
Emotional and Unexpected elements. The hardest part of using sto-
ries effectively is making sure that they’re Simple—that they reﬂect
your core message. It’s not enough to tell a great story; the story has to
reﬂect your agenda. You don’t want a general lining up his troops be-
fore battle to tell a Connection plot story.
    Stories have the amazing dual power to simulate and to inspire.
And most of the time we don’t even have to use much creativity to
harness these powers—we just need to be ready to spot the good ones
that life generates every day.
                           E P I L O G U E

           WHAT STICKS

       ometimes ideas stick despite our best efforts to stop them. In

S      1946, Leo Durocher was the coach of the Dodgers. His club
       was leading the National League, while the team’s traditional
archrival, the New York Giants, was languishing in the bottom of the
standings.
   During a game between the Dodgers and the Giants, Durocher
was mocking the Giants in front of a group of sportswriters. One of
the sportswriters teased Durocher, “Why don’t you be a nice guy for a
change?” Durocher pointed at the Giants’ dugout and said, “Nice
guys! Look over there. Do you know a nicer guy than [Giants’ man-
ager] Mel Ott? Or any of the other Giants? Why, they’re the nicest
guys in the world! And where are they? In seventh place!”
   As recounted by Ralph Keyes in his book on misquotations, Nice
Guys Finish Seventh, the metamorphosis of Durocher’s quote began
a year later. The Baseball Digest quoted Durocher as saying, “Nice
guys ﬁnish in last place in the second division.” Before long, as his
quip was passed along from one person to another, it evolved, be-
coming simpler and more universal, until it emerged as a cynical
comment on life: “Nice guys ﬁnish last.” No more reference to the
                              E P I LO G U E                       239

Giants, no more reference to seventh place—in fact, no more refer-
ence to baseball at all. Nice guys ﬁnish last.
   This quote, polished by the marketplace of ideas, irked Durocher.
For years, he denied saying the phrase (and, of course, he was right),
but eventually he gave up. Nice Guys Finish Last was the title of his
autobiography.

       ne of the most famous misquotations of all time is attributed to
O      the ﬁctional detective Sherlock Holmes. Holmes never said,
“Elementary, my dear Watson.” This seems hard to believe—the
quote is perfectly suited to our schema of Holmes. In fact, if you
asked someone to name one Sherlock Holmes quote, this would be
it. His most famous quote is the one he never said.
    Why did this nonexistent quote stick? It’s not hard to imagine
what must have happened. Holmes frequently said, “My dear Wat-
son,” and he often said, “Elementary.” A natural mistake, for some-
one inclined to quote from a Holmes mystery, would be to combine
the two. And, like an adaptive biological mutation, the newly com-
bined quote was such an improvement that it couldn’t help but
spread. This four-word quotation, after all, contains the essence of
Holmes: the brilliant detective never too busy to condescend to his
faithful sidekick.

  n the “Simple” chapter, we told the story of the 1992 Clinton cam-
I paign and Carville’s famous proverb, “It’s the economy, stupid.” We
mentioned that this proverb was one of three phrases that Carville
wrote on a whiteboard. Here’s a trivia question: What were the other
two?
   The other two phrases were “Change vs. more of the same” and
“Don’t forget health care.” Those phrases didn’t stick. So should
240                            E P I LO G U E

Carville have been pleased with the success of “It’s the economy, stu-
pid” as an idea? On the one hand, his phrase resonated so strongly
that it became a powerful tool in framing the election. On the other
hand, he got only one third of his message across!
    We bring up these examples because, in making ideas stick, the
audience gets a vote. The audience may change the meaning of your
idea, as happened with Durocher. The audience may actually im-
prove your idea, as was the case with Sherlock Holmes. Or the audi-
ence may retain some of your ideas and jettison others, as with
Carville.
    All of us tend to have a lot of “idea pride.” We want our message to
endure in the form we designed. Durocher’s response, when the au-
dience shaped his idea, was to deny, deny, deny . . . then eventually
accept.
    The question we have to ask ourselves in any situation is this: Is the
audience’s version of my message still core? In Chapter 1 (“Simple”),
we discussed the importance of focusing on core messages—honing
in on the most important truths that we need to communicate. If the
world takes our ideas and changes them—or accepts some and dis-
cards others—all we need to decide is whether the mutated versions
are still core. If they are—as with “It’s the economy, stupid”—then we
should humbly embrace the audience’s judgment. Ultimately, the test
of our success as idea creators isn’t whether people mimic our exact
words, it’s whether we achieve our goals.

                    The Power of Spotting

Carville, Durocher, and Arthur Conan Doyle were all creators of
ideas. They produced ideas from scratch. But let’s not forget that it’s
just as effective to spot sticky ideas as it is to create them.
    Think about Nordstrom. You can’t very well create from scratch a
bunch of stories about sales reps cheerfully gift-wrapping presents
                                E P I LO G U E                           241

from Macy’s. But when you come across a real story like that, you’ve
got to be alert to the idea’s potential. And this isn’t as easy as it sounds.
    The barrier to idea-spotting is that we tend to process anecdotes
differently than abstractions. If a Nordstrom manager is hit with an
abstraction, such as “Increase customer satisfaction scores by 10 per-
cent this quarter,” that abstraction kicks in the managerial mentality:
How do we get there from here? But a story about a tire-chain-
exchanging, cold-car-warming sales rep provokes a different way of
thinking. It will likely be ﬁled away with other kinds of day-to-day per-
sonal news—interesting but ultimately trivial, like the fact that John
Robison shaved his head or James Schlueter showed up late seven
days in a row. In some sense, there’s a wall in our minds separating
the little picture—stories, for instance—from the big picture. Spot-
ting requires us to tear down that wall.
    How do we tear down the wall? As a rough analogy, think about
the way we buy gifts for loved ones. If we know that Christmas or a
birthday is approaching, there’s a little nagging process that opens up
in our minds, reminding us that “Dad is a gadget guy, so keep an eye
out for cool gadgets.” It’s barely conscious, but if we happen upon a
Retractable Roto-Laser-Light on December 8, chances are we’ll im-
mediately spot it as a possible ﬁt for Dad.
    The analogy to the idea world is maintaining a deeply ingrained
sense of the core message that we want to communicate. Just as we
can put on Dad Gift Glasses, allowing us to view merchandise from
his perspective, we can also put on Core Idea Glasses, allowing us to
ﬁlter incoming ideas from that perspective. If you’re a Nordstrom
manager, obsessed with improving customer service, this ﬁlter helps
you spot the warming-cars episode as a symbol of perfection, rather
than as an interesting anecdote.
    In the Introduction, we debunked the common assumption that
you need natural creative genius to cook up a great idea. You don’t.
But, beyond that, it’s crucial to realize that creation, period, is unnec-
242                           E P I LO G U E

essary. Think of the ideas in this book that were spotted rather than
created: Nordies. Jared. The mystery of Saturn’s rings. Pam Lafﬁn,
the smoking antiauthority. The nurse who ignored the heart monitor,
listened with her stethoscope, and saved the baby’s life. If you’re a
great spotter, you’ll always trump a great creator. Why? Because the
world will always produce more great ideas than any single individ-
ual, even the most creative one.

             The Speakers and the Stickers

Each year in the second session of Chip’s “Making Ideas Stick” class
at Stanford, the students participate in an exercise, a kind of testable
credential to show what kinds of messages stick and don’t stick. The
students are given some data from a government source on crime
patterns in the United States. Half of them are asked to make a one-
minute persuasive speech to convince their peers that nonviolent
crime is a serious problem in this country. The other half are asked
to take the position that it’s not particularly serious.
    Stanford students, as you’d expect, are smart. They also tend to be
quick thinkers and good communicators. No one in the room ever
gives a poor speech.
    The students divide into small groups and each one gives a one-
minute speech while the others listen. After each speech, the listeners
rate the speaker: How impressive was the delivery? How persuasive?
    What happens, invariably, is that the most polished speakers get
the highest ratings. Students who are poised, smooth, and charis-
matic are rated at the top of the class. No surprise, right? Good speak-
ers score well in speaking contests.
    The surprise comes next. The exercise appears to be over; in fact,
Chip often plays a brief Monty Python clip to kill a few minutes and
distract the students. Then, abruptly, he asks them to pull out a sheet
of paper and write down, for each speaker they heard, every single
idea that they remember.
                               E P I LO G U E                        243

     The students are ﬂabbergasted at how little they remember. Keep
in mind that only ten minutes have elapsed since the speeches were
given. Nor was there a huge volume of information to begin with—at
most, they’ve heard eight one-minute speeches. And yet the students
are lucky to recall one or two ideas from each speaker’s presentation.
Many draw a complete blank on some speeches—unable to remem-
ber a single concept.
     In the average one-minute speech, the typical student uses 2.5 sta-
tistics. Only one student in ten tells a story. Those are the speaking
statistics. The “remembering” statistics, on the other hand, are al-
most a mirror image: When students are asked to recall the speeches,
63 percent remember the stories. Only 5 percent remember any indi-
vidual statistic.
     Furthermore, almost no correlation emerges between “speaking
talent” and the ability to make ideas stick. The people who were cap-
tivating speakers typically do no better than others in making their
ideas stick. Foreign students—whose less-polished English often
leaves them at the bottom of the speaking-skills rankings—are sud-
denly on a par with native speakers. The stars of stickiness are the stu-
dents who made their case by telling stories, or by tapping into
emotion, or by stressing a single point rather than ten. There is no
question that a ringer—a student who came into the exercise having
read this book—would squash the other students. A community col-
lege student for whom English is a second language could easily out-
perform unwitting Stanford graduate students.
     Why can’t these smart, talented speakers make their ideas stick? A
few of the villains discussed in this book are implicated. The ﬁrst vil-
lain is the natural tendency to bury the lead—to get lost in a sea of in-
formation. One of the worst things about knowing a lot, or having
access to a lot of information, is that we’re tempted to share it all.
High school teachers will tell you that when students write research
papers they feel obligated to include every unearthed fact, as though
the value were in the quantity of data amassed rather than in its pur-
244                            E P I LO G U E

pose or clarity. Stripping out information, in order to focus on the
core, is not instinctual.
    The second villain is the tendency to focus on the presentation
rather than on the message. Public speakers naturally want to appear
composed, charismatic, and motivational. And, certainly, charisma
will help a properly designed message stick better. But all the
charisma in the world won’t save a dense, unfocused speech, as some
Stanford students learn the hard way.

                          More Villains

There are two other key villains in the book that the Stanford stu-
dents don’t have to wrestle with. The ﬁrst is decision paralysis—the
anxiety and irrationality that can emerge from excessive choice or
ambiguous situations. Think about the students who missed both a
fantastic lecture and a great ﬁlm because they couldn’t decide which
one was better, or how hard it was for Jeff Hawkins, the leader of the
Palm Pilot development group, to get his team to focus on a few is-
sues rather than on many.
    To beat decision paralysis, communicators have to do the hard
work of ﬁnding the core. Lawyers must stress one or two points in
their closing arguments, not ten. A teacher’s lesson plans may contain
ﬁfty concepts to share with her students, but in order to be effective
that teacher must devote most of her efforts to making the most criti-
cal two or three stick. Managers must share proverbs—“Names,
names, and names” or “THE low-fare airline”—that help employees
wring decisions out of ambiguous situations.
    The archvillain of sticky ideas, as you know by now, is the Curse of
Knowledge. The Stanford students didn’t face the Curse of Knowledge
because the data on crime was brand-new to them—they were more
akin to reporters trying to avoid burying the lead on a news story than to
experts who have forgotten what it’s like not to know something.
    The Curse of Knowledge is a worthy adversary, because in some
                               E P I LO G U E                         245

sense it’s inevitable. Getting a message across has two stages: the An-
swer stage and the Telling Others stage. In the Answer stage, you use
your expertise to arrive at the idea that you want to share. Doctors
study for a decade to be capable of giving the Answer. Business man-
agers may deliberate for months to arrive at the Answer.
    Here’s the rub: The same factors that worked to your advantage in
the Answer stage will backﬁre on you during the Telling Others stage.
To get the Answer, you need expertise, but you can’t dissociate ex-
pertise from the Curse of Knowledge. You know things that others
don’t know, and you can’t remember what it was like not to know
those things. So when you get around to sharing the Answer, you’ll
tend to communicate as if your audience were you.
    You’ll stress the scads of statistics that were pivotal in arriving at
the Answer—and, like the Stanford students, you’ll ﬁnd that no one
remembers them afterward. You’ll share the punch line—the over-
arching truth that emerged from months of study and analysis—and,
like the CEO who stresses “maximizing shareholder value” to his
frontline employees, no one will have a clue how your punch line re-
lates to the day-to-day work.
    There is a curious disconnect between the amount of time we in-
vest in training people how to arrive at the Answer and the amount of
time we invest in training them how to Tell Others. It’s easy to gradu-
ate from medical school or an MBA program without ever taking a
class in communication. College professors take dozens of courses in
their areas of expertise but none on how to teach. A lot of engineers
would scoff at a training program about Telling Others.
    Business managers seem to believe that, once they’ve clicked
through a PowerPoint presentation showcasing their conclusions,
they’ve successfully communicated their ideas. What they’ve done is
share data. If they’re good speakers, they may even have created an
enhanced sense, among their employees and peers, that they are “de-
cisive” or “managerial” or “motivational.” But, like the Stanford stu-
dents, the surprise will come when they realize that nothing they’ve
246                             E P I LO G U E

said had impact. They’ve shared data, but they haven’t created ideas
that are useful and lasting. Nothing stuck.

                 Making an Idea Stick:
             The Communication Framework

For an idea to stick, for it to be useful and lasting, it’s got to make the
audience:

      1. Pay attention
      2. Understand and remember it
      3. Agree/Believe
      4. Care
      5. Be able to act on it

   This book could have been organized around these ﬁve steps, but
there’s a reason they were reserved for the conclusion. The Curse of
Knowledge can easily render this framework useless. When an expert
asks, “Will people understand my idea?,” her answer will be Yes, be-
cause she herself understands. (“Of course, my people will under-
stand ‘maximizing shareholder value!’ ”) When an expert asks, “Will
people care about this?,” her answer will be Yes, because she herself
cares. Think of the Murray Dranoff Duo Piano people, who said,
“We exist to protect, preserve, and promote the music of the duo
piano.” They were shocked when that statement didn’t arouse the
same passion in others that it did in them.
   The SUCCESs checklist is a substitute for the framework above,
and its advantage is that it’s more tangible and less subject to the
Curse of Knowledge. In fact, if you think back across the chapters
you’ve read, you’ll notice that the framework matches up nicely:

      1. Pay attention:                          UNEXPECTED
      2. Understand and remember it:             CONCRETE
                                    E P I LO G U E                       247

   3. Agree/Believe:                          CREDIBLE
   4. Care:                                   EMOTIONAL
   5. Be able to act on it:                   STORY

    So, rather than guess about whether people will understand our
ideas, we should ask, “Is it concrete?” Rather than speculate about
whether people will care, we should ask, “Is it emotional? Does it get
out of Maslow’s basement? Does it force people to put on an Analyti-
cal Hat or allow them to feel empathy?” (By the way, “Simple” is not
on the list above because it’s mainly about the Answer stage—honing
in on the core of your message and making it as compact as possible.
But Simple messages help throughout the process, especially in help-
ing people to understand and act.)
    The SUCCESs checklist, then, is an ideal tool for dealing with
communication problems. Let’s look at some common symptoms of
communication problems and how we can respond to them.

           S Y M P T O M S           A N D           S O L U T I O N S

                  Problems getting people to
                  pay attention to a message

   SYMPTOM: “No one is listening to me” or “They seem bored—they

   hear this stuff all the time.”
   SOLUTION: Surprise them by breaking their guessing machines—tell

   them something that is uncommon sense. (The lead is, There will be
   no school next Thursday! Nordies gift-wrap packages from Macy’s!)
   SYMPTOM: “I lost them halfway through” or “Their attention was wa-

   vering toward the end.”
248                                 E P I LO G U E

      SOLUTION: Create curiosity gaps—tell people just enough for them to

      realize the piece that’s missing from their knowledge. (Remember
      Roone Arledge’s introductions to college football games, setting the
      context for the rivalry.) Or create mysteries or puzzles that are slowly
      solved over the course of the communication. (Like the professor who
      started each class with a mystery, such as the one about Saturn’s rings.)

                     Problems getting people to
                     understand and remember

      SYMPTOM: “They always nod their heads when I explain it to them, but

      it never seems to translate into action.”
      SOLUTION: Make the message simpler and use concrete language.

      Use what people already know as a way to make your intentions
      clearer, as with a generative analogy (like Disney’s “cast member”
      metaphor). Or use concrete, real-world examples. Don’t talk about
      “knowledge management”; tell a story about a health worker in
      Zambia getting information on malaria from the Internet.
      SYMPTOM: “We have these meetings where it seems like everyone is

      talking past each other” or “Everyone has such different levels of
      knowledge that it’s hard to teach them.”
      SOLUTION: Create a highly concrete turf where people can apply their

      knowledge. (Think of the venture-capital pitch for a portable com-
      puter where the entrepreneur tossed his binder onto the table, spark-
      ing brainstorming.) Have people grapple with speciﬁc examples or
      cases rather than concepts.

                     Problems getting people to
                        believe you or agree

      SYMPTOM: “They’re not buying it.”

      SOLUTION: Find the telling details for your message—the equivalent

      of the dancing seventy-three-year-old man, or the textile factory so
                              E P I LO G U E                               249

environmentally friendly that it actually cleans the water pouring
through it. Use fewer authorities and more antiauthorities.
SYMPTOM: “They quibble with everything I say” or “I spend all my time

arguing with them about this.”
SOLUTION: Quiet the audience’s mental skeptics by using a spring-

board story, switching them into creative mode. Move away from sta-
tistics and facts toward meaningful examples. Use an anecdote that
passes the Sinatra Test.

          Problems getting people to care

SYMPTOM: “They are so apathetic” or “No one seems ﬁred up about

this.”
SOLUTION: Remember the Mother Teresa effect—people care more

about individuals than they do about abstractions. Tell them an in-
spiring Challenge plot or Creativity plot story. Tap into their sense of
their own identities, like the “Don’t Mess with Texas” ads, which sug-
gested that not littering was the Texan thing to do.
SYMPTOM: “The things that used to get people excited just aren’t doing

it anymore.”
SOLUTION: Get out of Maslow’s basement and try appealing to more

profound types of self-interest.

            Problems getting people to act

SYMPTOM: “Everyone nods their heads and then nothing happens.”

SOLUTION: Inspire them with a Challenge plot story (Jared, David and

Goliath) or engage them by using a springboard story (the World
Bank). Make sure your message is simple and concrete enough to be
useful—turn it into a proverb (“Names, names, and names”).
250                            E P I LO G U E

           John F. Kennedy versus Floyd Lee

“I believe that this nation should commit itself to achieving the goal,
before this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon and return-
ing him safely to the earth.” Those were John F. Kennedy’s words in
May 1961. An inspiring message for an inspiring mission. It was a sin-
gle idea that motivated a nation to a decade of work—and an even-
tual, historic, unforgettable success.
    But here’s the thing: You’re not JFK.
    And neither are we. We don’t have an ounce of his charisma or
power. We are less concerned with traveling to the moon than with,
say, remembering our wallets when we leave home in the morning.
So, if being JFK was what it took to make an idea stick, this would be
a depressing book indeed.
    JFK isn’t the standard. In fact, he’s the aberration. Keep in mind
that the same chapter where we ﬁrst mentioned the “Man on the
Moon” speech also contains a reference to the Kentucky Fried Rat.
Our heads are not entirely in the clouds.
    Sticky ideas have things in common, and in this book we’ve
reverse-engineered them. We’ve studied preposterous ideas: the kid-
ney thieves and their ice-ﬁlled bathtub. We’ve studied brilliant ideas:
Ulcers are caused by bacteria. We’ve studied boring ideas made inter-
esting: the ﬂight-safety announcement. We’ve studied interesting
ideas made boring: Oral rehydration salts that could save the lives of
thousands of kids. We’ve seen ideas related to newspapers, account-
ing, nuclear war, evangelism, seat belts, dust, dancing, litter, football,
AIDS, shipping, and hamburgers.
    And what we’ve seen is that all these ideas—profound and mun-
dane, serious and silly—share common traits. Our hope is that, now
that you understand these traits, you’ll be able to apply them to your
own ideas. They laughed when you shared a story instead of a statistic.
But when the idea stuck . . .
                                E P I LO G U E                           251

     The SUCCESs checklist is intended to be a deeply practical tool.
It’s no accident that it’s a checklist and not an equation. It’s not hard,
and it’s not rocket science. But neither is it natural or instinctive. It re-
quires diligence and it requires awareness.
     This book is ﬁlled with normal people facing normal problems
who did amazing things simply by applying these principles (even if
they weren’t aware that they were doing it). These people are so nor-
mal that you probably won’t even recognize their names when you
see them. Their names aren’t sticky, but their stories are.
     There was Art Silverman. He was the guy who stopped a nation
from eating obscenely unhealthy movie popcorn. He laid out a full
day’s worth of fatty foods next to a tub of popcorn and said, “This is
how much saturated fat is in this snack.” A normal person with a nor-
mal job who made a difference.
     There was Nora Ephron’s journalism teacher. Poor guy, we didn’t
even mention his name. He told his class, “The lead is ‘There will be
no school next Thursday.’ ” And in that one sentence he rewrote his
students’ image of journalism. He inspired Ephron—and doubtless
many others—to become journalists. A normal person with a normal
job who made a difference.
     What about Bob Ocwieja? No chance you remember his name.
He’s the Subway franchise owner who served sandwiches to a fat guy
every day and spotted a great story in the making. Because of Ocwieja
the hugely successful Jared campaign was discovered and launched.
A normal person with a normal job who made a difference.
     Then there was Floyd Lee, the leader of the Pegasus mess hall in
Iraq. He deﬁned his role as being about morale, not food service. He
got the same supplies as everyone else, but soldiers ﬂocked to his tent
and his pastry chef started describing her desserts as “sensual.” A nor-
mal person with a normal job who made a difference.
     And there was Jane Elliott. Her classroom simulation of racial
prejudice is still etched in the minds of her students more than
252                          E P I LO G U E

twenty years later. It’s not a stretch to say that she came up with an
idea that prevented prejudice, like a vaccine. A normal person with a
normal job who made a difference.
   All these people distinguished themselves by crafting ideas that
made a difference. They didn’t have power or celebrity or PR ﬁrms or
advertising dollars or spinmeisters. All they had were ideas.
   And that’s the great thing about the world of ideas—any of us,
with the right insight and the right message, can make an idea stick.
           MAKING IDEAS STICK:
         THE EASY REFERENCE GUIDE

What Sticks?
  Kidney heist. Halloween candy. Movie popcorn.

  Sticky = understandable, memorable, and effective in changing
  thought or behavior.

  Six principles: SUCCESs.

  Simple Unexpected Concrete Credible Emotional Stories.

  The villain: Curse of Knowledge. It’s hard to be a tapper.
  Creativity starts with templates: Beat the Curse with the SUCCESs
  checklist.

1. Simple
  Find the core.

  Commander’s Intent. Determine the single most important thing: “THE
  low-fare airline.” Inverted pyramid: Don’t bury the lead. The pain of deci-
  sion paralysis. Beat decision paralysis through relentless prioritization:
  “It’s the economy, stupid.” Clinic: Sun exposure. Names, names, names.

  Share the core.

  Simple = core + compact. Proverbs: sound bites that are profound.
  Visual proverbs: The Palm Pilot wood block. How to pack a lot of punch
  into a compact communication: (1) Using what’s there: Tap into existing
  schemas. The pomelo. (2) Create a high concept pitch: “Die Hard on a
  bus.” (3) Use a generative analogy: Disney’s “cast members.”
254                        EASY REFERENCE GUIDE

2. Unexpected
      Get attention: surprise.

      The successful ﬂight safety announcement. Break a pattern! Break peo-
      ple’s guessing machines (on a core issue). The surprise brow: a pause to
      collect information. Avoid gimmicky surprise—make it “postdictable.”
      “The Nordie who . . .” “There will be no school next Thursday.” Clinic:
      Too much on foreign aid?

      Hold attention: interest.

      Create a mystery: What are Saturn’s rings made of? Screenplays as mod-
      els of generating curiosity. The Gap Theory of Curiosity: Highlight a
      knowledge gap. Use the news-teaser approach: “Which local restaurant
      has slime in the ice machine?” Clinic: Fund-raising. Priming the gap:
      How Roone Arledge made NCAA football interesting to nonfans.
      Hold long-term interest: the “pocketable radio” and the “man on the
      moon.”

3. Concrete
      Help people understand and remember.

      Write with the concreteness of a fable. (Sour grapes.) Make abstraction
      concrete: The Nature Conservancy’s landscapes as eco-celebrities.
      Provide a concrete context: Asian teachers’ approach to teaching
      math. Put people into the story: accounting class taught with a soap
      opera. Use the Velcro theory of memory: The more hooks in your idea, the
      better. Brown eyes, blue eyes: a simulation that “cured” racial prejudice.

      Help people coordinate.

      Engineers vs. manufacturers: Find common ground at a shared level of
      understanding. Set common goals in tangible terms: Our plane will land
      on Runway 4-22. Make it real: The Ferraris go to Disney World. Why
      concreteness helps: white things versus white things in your refrigerator.
      Create a turf where people can bring their knowledge to bear: The VC
                        EASY REFERENCE GUIDE                               255

   pitch and the maroon portfolio. Clinic: Oral Rehydration Therapy. Talk
   about people, not data: Hamburger Helper’s in-home visits and
   “Saddleback Sam.”

4. Credible
   Help people believe.

   The Nobel-winning ulcer insight no one believed. Flesh-eating bananas.

   External credibility. Authority and antiauthority. Pam Lafﬁn, smoker.

   Internal credibility.

   Use convincing details. Jurors and the Darth Vader Toothbrush. The
   dancing seventy-three year old.

   Make statistics accessible. Nuclear warheads as BBs. The Human Scale
   principle. Stephen Covey’s analogy of a workplace to a soccer team.
   Clinic: Shark attack hysteria.

   Find an example that passes the Sinatra Test. “If you can make it there,
   you can make it anywhere.” Transporting Bollywood movies: “We han-
   dled Harry Potter and your brother’s board exams.” A business-friendly
   environmentalist and the textile factory that actually puriﬁed the water
   that fed it—and yielded fabric that was edible.

   Use testable credentials. “Try before you buy.” Where’s the beef? Snapple
   supports the KKK?! Coaches: It’s easier to tear down than to build up:
   Filling the Emotional Tank. NBA rookie orientation: “These women all
   have AIDS.”

5. Emotional
   Make people care.

   The Mother Teresa principle: If I look at the one, I will act. People
   donate more to Rokia than to a huge swath of Africa. The Truth anti-
256                        EASY REFERENCE GUIDE

      smoking campaign: What made kids care was not health concerns but
      anticorporate rebellion.

      Use the power of association.

      The need to ﬁght semantic stretch: the diluted meaning of “relativity”
      and why “unique” isn’t unique anymore. Transforming “sportsmanship”
      into “honoring the game.”

      Appeal to self-interest (and not just base self-interest).

      Mail-order ads—“They laughed when I sat down at the piano. . . .”
      WIIFY. Cable television in Tempe: Visualizing what it could do for you.
      Avoid Maslow’s basement: our false assumption that other people are
      baser than we are. Floyd Lee and his Iraq mess tent: “I’m in charge of
      morale.”

      Appeal to identity.

      The ﬁremen who rejected the popcorn popper. Understand how people
      make decisions based on identity. (Who am I? What kind of situation is
      this? And what do people like me do in this kind of situation?) Clinic:
      Why study algebra? Don’t mess with Texas: Texans don’t litter. Don’t
      forget the Curse of Knowledge—don’t assume, like the defenders of the
      duo piano, that others care at the same level that you do.

6. Stories
      Get people to act.

      Stories as simulation (tell people how to act).

      The day the heart monitor lied: how the nurse acted. Shop talk at Xerox:
      how the repairman acted. Visualizing “how I got here”: simulating prob-
      lems to solve them. Use stories as ﬂight simulators. Clinic: Dealing with
      problem students.
                       EASY REFERENCE GUIDE                                257

  Stories as inspiration (give people energy to act).

  Jared, the 425-pound fast-food dieter. How to spot inspiring stories. Look
  for three key plots: Challenge (to overcome obstacles), Connection (to get
  along or reconnect), Creativity (to inspire a new way of thinking). Tell a
  springboard story: a story that helps people see how an existing problem
  might change. Stephen Denning at the World Bank: a health worker in
  Zambia. You can extract a moral from a story, but you can’t extract a
  story from a moral. Why speakers got mad when people boiled down
  their presentations to stories.

What Sticks.
  Use what sticks.

  Nice guys ﬁnish last. Elementary, my dear Watson. It’s the economy, stu-
  pid. The power of spotting. Why good speaking skills aren’t necessarily
  good sticking skills: Stanford students and the speech exercise. A ﬁnal
  warning about the Curse of Knowledge.

  Remember how SUCCESs helps people to:

     Pay attention                    Unexpected
     Understand and remember          Concrete
     Believe and agree                Credible
     Care                             Emotional
     Act                              Stories

  Simple helps at many stages. Most important, it tells you what to say.

  Symptoms and solutions: For practical guidance, see pages 247–49.

  John F. Kennedy versus Floyd Lee: How normal people, in normal situa-
  tions, can make a profound difference with their sticky ideas.
                                   N O T E S

Introduction: What Sticks?

4    “Comprehensive community building”: Tony Proscio, “In Other Words: A
     Plea for Plain Speaking in Foundations,” Edna McConnell Clark Founda-
     tion, 2000.
6    The Truth About Movie Popcorn: A good account of the popcorn story is in
     Howard Kurtz, “The Great Exploding Popcorn Exposé,” Washington Post,
     May 12, 1994, C1.
13   Who Spoiled Halloween?: The story of the contaminated Halloween candy
     legend is told in Joel Best and Gerald T. Horiuchi, “The Razor Blade and the
     Apple: The Social Construction of Urban Legends,” Social Forces 32 (1985):
     488–99. Joel Best is one of a group of sociologists who study the “construc-
     tion” of social problems. Social concerns about various problems such as
     drunk driving, drug abuse, or poisoned Halloween candy do not always
     match the underlying incidence of problems, and sociologists have tried to
     understand how social problems become deﬁned as “problems.” For another
     interesting read on this topic, see Joel Best, Random Violence: How We Talk
     About New Crimes and New Victims (Berkeley: University of California Press,
     1999).
19   the Curse of Knowledge: The Curse of Knowledge concept comes from
     C. F. Camerer, G. Loewenstein, and M. Weber, “The Curse of Knowledge in
     Economic Settings: An Experimental Analysis,” Journal of Political Economy
     97 (1989): 1232–54. The Curse of Knowledge increases as people gain more
     expertise. Pamela Hinds asked experts (salespeople at a cellular company) to
260                                   N OT E S

      predict how long novice cell-phone users would take to learn to perform var-
      ious tasks (e.g., storing a greeting on voice mail or saving some messages and
      deleting others). Experts dramatically underestimated the amount of time it
      would take novice users to accomplish the tasks (i.e., they estimated that it
      would take thirteen minutes to perform functions that actually took thirty-
      three minutes), and their estimates did not improve when they were speciﬁ-
      cally asked to think about the problems they encountered while they were
      originally learning. See Pamela J. Hinds, “The Curse of Expertise: The Ef-
      fects of Expertise and Debiasing Methods on Predicting Novice Perfor-
      mance,” Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied 5 (1999): 205–21. See
      also brilliant work in psychology by Boas Keysar, Linda E. Ginzel, and Max
      H. Bazerman, “States of Affairs and States of Mind: The Effect of Knowledge
      on Beliefs,” Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes 64
      (1995): 283–93. Ironically, the Curse of Knowledge has been well docu-
      mented in economic and market settings, where people should have the
      greatest incentives to try to overcome it (see http://curse-of-knowledge
      .behaviouralﬁnance.net/). If you can’t overcome the Curse of Knowledge
      when it’s costing you lots of money, it’s going to be even harder to detect and
      overcome it in day-to-day situations.
19    In 1990, Elizabeth Newton: L. Newton, “Overconﬁdence in the Communi-
      cation of Intent: Heard and Unheard Melodies,” Ph.D. diss., Stanford Uni-
      versity, 1990.
22    In 1999, an Israeli research team: Jacob Goldenberg, David Mazursky, and
      Sorin Solomon, “The Fundamental Templates of Quality Ads,” Marketing
      Science 18 (1999): 333–51. The Pictorial Analogy template features extreme
      analogies rendered visually. For instance, a Nike ad is shot from the perspec-
      tive of someone jumping from a tall building. A group of ﬁremen are on the
      street below, preparing to cushion the jumper’s fall with an oversized Nike
      sneaker. The tagline reads, “Something soft between you and the pavement.”
      The majority of the winners are composed of Pictorial Analogy and Extreme
      Consequences. The other templates were Extreme Situations (in which a
      product is shown performing under unusual circumstances or in which
      a product’s attribute is exaggerated to the extreme), Competition (in which a
      product is shown winning in competition with another product, often in an
      unusual usage situation), Interactive Experiments (where listeners interact
      with the product directly—see “Testable Credentials” in Chapter 4), and Di-
      mensionality Alteration (e.g., a time leap that shows the long-run implica-
      tions of a decision).
                                     N OT E S                                   261

1. Simple

29   Herb Kelleher . . . once told: James Carville and Paul Begala, Buck Up, Suck
     Up, and Come Back When You Foul Up (New York: Simon & Schuster,
     2002), 88. This is one of the most interesting books we’ve found about the dy-
     namics of political campaigns, and there’s a chapter on how to communicate
     in a political campaign that echoes several of the principles we cover in this
     book: tell stories (“facts tell but stories sell”), be emotional, and be unique
     (their version of “Unexpected”).
31   A healthy 17-year-old heart: Jonathan Bor, “It Fluttered and Became Bruce
     Murray’s Heart,” Syracuse Post-Standard, May 12, 1984.
31   jerusalem, Nov. 4: Barton Gellman, “Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin
     Is Killed,” Washington Post, November 5, 1995. Chip Scanlon has a great col-
     lection of online columns describing the tradecraft of journalism, including
     one that contains the two headlines here: www.poynter.org/column.asp?id=
     52&aid=35609.
31   the inverted pyramid arose: Rich Cameron, “Understanding the Lead and
     the Inverted Pyramid Structure Are Staples of Journalism 101 Classes,” The
     Inverted Pyramid, 2003. See www.cerritosjournalism.com, in the section en-
     titled “101—Newswriting.”
33   “It was simple”: Carville’s advice to remember the basics is from Mary
     Matalin and James Carville, All’s Fair: Love, War, and Running for President
     (New York: Random House, 1994), 244. The Clinton interchange leading up
     to the “If you say three things, you don’t say anything” quote is on page 175.
34   In 1954, the economist L. J. Savage: Leonard J. Savage, The Foundations of
     Statistics (New York: Wiley, 1954).
35   Amos Tversky and Eldar Shaﬁr: The study about the Christmas vacation in
     Hawaii study is in Amos Tversky and Eldar Shaﬁr, “The Disjunction Effect
     in Choice Under Uncertainty,” Psychological Science 3 (1992): 305–9. The
     lecture/foreign ﬁlm/library study is found in Donald A. Redelmeier and
     Eldar Shaﬁr, “Medical Decision Making in Situations That Offer Multiple
     Alternatives,” Journal of the American Medical Association 273 (1995): 302–6.
     The phenomenon of decision paralysis is pronounced even for professionals.
     Redelmeier and Shaﬁr show that doctors will delay in prescribing any treat-
     ment when they are forced to choose among multiple good treatments.
38   Sun Exposure: Precautions and Protection: Message 1 of the Sun Exposure
     Idea Clinic is from http://ohioline.osu.edu/hyg-fact/5000/5550.html.
47   Cervantes deﬁned proverbs: The discussion of proverbs is based on Paul
262                                  N OT E S

      Hernandi and Francis Steen, “The Tropical Landscapes of Proverbial: A
      Crossdisciplinary Travelogue,” Style 33 (1999): 1–20.
50    “The real barrier to the initial PDAs”: Tom Kelley, The Art of Innovation:
      Lessons in Creativity from IDEO, America’s Leading Design Firm (New York:
      Doubleday Currency, 2001).
51    J FKFB INAT OUP: The letter/acronym exercise demonstrates the classic
      principle of “chunking” from cognitive psychology. Working memory is sufﬁ-
      cient to hold only about seven independent pieces of information. (See
      George Miller’s classic description in “The Magical Number Seven, Plus or
      Minus Two,” Psychological Review 63 (1956): 81–97. In the ﬁrst exercise, the
      chunks are letters, and most people can hold about seven of them. In the sec-
      ond, the chunks are pre-stored acronyms; people can remember around
      seven acronyms even though they each contain multiple letters. By taking ad-
      vantage of preexisting chunks of information, we can cram more information
      into a limited attentional space.
54    Psychologists deﬁne schema: Schemas are part of the standard tool kit of
      cognitive and social psychology. For an interesting discussion of schemas in
      social perception, see Chapters 4 and 5 of Susan T. Fiske and Shelley E. Tay-
      lor, Social Cognition, 2nd ed. (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1991). For an inter-
      esting summary of cognitive psychology research on schemas, see Chapter 2
      of David C. Rubin, Memory in Oral Traditions: The Cognitive Psychology of
      Epic, Ballads, and Counting-out Rhymes (Oxford: Oxford University Press,
      1995).
         An analogy is a good way of helping people access the knowledge in a
      schema. Educational psychologists have published a number of papers on
      the value of analogies in learning new material, particularly Richard Mayer.
      In a 1980 paper, he helped students learn to program the language of a data-
      base. One group of students was given analogies for the structure of the com-
      puter: “The long-term storage function of the computer was described as a
      ﬁle cabinet; the sorting function was described as an in-basket, save basket,
      and discard basket on an ofﬁce desk.” When students were confronting easy
      problems, the analogies didn’t matter much, but when the problems became
      more complex, students who had been given analogies were about twice as
      good as the others. See R. Mayer, “Elaborate Techniques That Increase the
      Meaningfulness of Technical Text: An Experimental Test of the Learning
      Strategy Hypothesis,” Journal of Educational Psychology 72 (1980): 770–84.
         Metaphor is another way of allowing people to access the knowledge in a
      schema. George Lakoff has, in a number of books, shown how deep
      metaphors structure the way that we understand and talk about the world
                                     N OT E S                                   263

     (e.g., George Lakoff and Mark Johnson, Metaphors We Live By [Chicago:
     University of Chicago Press, 1980]). For example, we talk about and think of
     love as a journey (Look at how far we’ve come. We’re at a crossroads. We’re off
     track.) Lakoff has been better than anyone else at recognizing the pervasive
     ways in which such metaphors affect our communication, but metaphors
     need not be deep or pervasive to be useful in conveying a message; they just
     need to be shared by the relevant audience, as in the discussion of “high con-
     cept” in Hollywood.
60   Good metaphors are “generative”: D. A. Schon, “Generative Metaphor: A
     Perspective on Problem-Solving in Social Policy,” in Metaphor and Thought,
     2nd ed., edited by A. Ortony, (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
     1993).
60   Disney calls its employees “cast members”: The examples from Disney are
     from: Disney Institute, Be Our Guest: Perfecting the Art of Customer Service
     (New York: Disney Editions, 2001).

2. Unexpected

63   A ﬂight attendant named Karen Wood: It’s no accident that Karen Wood
     was a ﬂight attendant on Southwest Airlines. See Kevin Freiberg and Jackie
     Freiberg, Nuts! Southwest Airlines’ Crazy Recipe for Business and Personal
     Success (Austin, Tex.: Bard Press, 1996), 209–10.
68   “the surprise brow”: Paul Ekman and Wallace V. Friesen, Unmasking the
     Face: A Guide to Recognizing Emotions from Facial Clues (Englewood Cliffs,
     N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1975). The role of surprise is an understudied topic in
     psychology, because it falls in the cracks between psychological disciplines.
     Cognitive researchers who study attention and learning ﬁnd it too emotional;
     social psychologists who study emotions such as anger, fear, and disgust ﬁnd
     it too cognitive. Yet you could make the case that surprise is the most impor-
     tant emotion because of its role in controlling attention and learning.
70   “PHRAUG and TAYBL”: Bruce W. A. Whittlesea and Lisa D. Williams,
     “The Discrepancy-Attribution Hypothesis II: Expectation, Uncertainty, Sur-
     prise, and Feelings of Familiarity,” Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learn-
     ing, Memory, and Cognition 27 (2001): 14–33.
73   The Nordie who ironed: Jim Collins and Jerry I. Porras, Built to Last: Suc-
     cessful Habits of Visionary Companies (New York: HarperBusiness, 1994), 118.
75   Journalism 101: Ephron’s account is in Lorraine Glennon and Mary
     Mohler, Those Who Can . . . Teach! Celebrating Teachers Who Make a Dif-
     ference (Berkeley, Calif.: Wildcat Canyon Press, 1999), 95–96.
264                                   N OT E S

77    Americans persist in thinking: Message 1 from the foreign aid Clinic is from
      www.ipjc.org/journal/fall02/nick_mele.htm.
78    Polls suggest that most Americans: See surveys conducted by the Program
      for International Policy Attitudes (PIPA) at the University of Maryland.
78    All of sub-Saharan Africa: As of 2001, sub-Saharan Africa and the entire re-
      gion of Asia each received a little more than $1 billion per year. Assuming
      that there are 280 million Americans, twelve soft drinks at a bargain price of
      $.33 equals $1.1 billion. One movie per year at $8 per movie ticket equals
      $2.24 billion.
80    How do we keep people’s attention?: Arousing people’s interest and keeping
      it are topics that have been discussed frequently among educational psychol-
      ogists who want to keep kids engaged in textbooks. Many of their ﬁndings are
      consistent with the topics we consider in this book: Kids are more engaged
      when texts evoke action and images (Concrete) or emotions (Emotional) or
      when something is novel (Unexpected, though in our view novelty is more
      likely to attract interest than to sustain it). Other topics go beyond what we
      discuss here. For example, kids are more engaged when material is personal-
      ized (e.g., they pay more attention to math problems that feature their names
      or the names of their friends), though this customization strategy is hard to
      apply in general. But most of the research in educational psychology has
      been limited in that it focuses only on sentence- or paragraph-level charac-
      teristics of texts rather than on broader questions, such as how do you get
      readers to read whole sections, chapters, or books. Cialdini’s observations on
      mystery and Loewenstein’s gap theory of curiosity would add a great deal to
      this important area of research. For a review of educational research, see
      Suzanne Hidi, “Interest and Its Contribution as a Mental Resource for
      Learning,” Review of Educational Research 60 (1990): 549–71.
80    A few years ago, Robert Cialdini: Cialdini wrote his article for psychology
      professors, but it’s excellent advice for all teachers. See Robert B. Cialdini,
      “What’s the Best Secret Device for Engaging Student Interest? The Answer Is
      in the Title,” Journal of Social and Clinical Psychology 24 (2005): 22–29.
83    McKee says, “Curiosity”: Robert McKee, Story: Substance, Structure, Style
      and the Principles of Screenwriting (New York: ReganBooks, 1997). McKee
      also has good insight into the difference between gimmicky surprise and sur-
      prise that leads to resolution in movies: “We can always shock ﬁlmgoers by
      cutting to something it doesn’t expect to see or away from something it ex-
      pects to continue.” But he says that “true surprise” happens when a legitimate
      gap is suddenly revealed between what we expect and what actually happens.
                                      N OT E S                                   265

     The legitimacy comes from a rush of insight, revealing some truth that was
     previously hidden.
84   In 1994, George Loewenstein: George Loewenstein, “The Psychology of
     Curiosity: A Review and Reinterpretation,” Psychological Bulletin 116
     (1994): 75–98. This is a brilliant article that reviews decades of psychological
     research.
91   Heretofore, television has done: The Roone Arledge story is from his autobi-
     ography, Roone: A Memoir (New York: HarperCollins, 2003). The quote
     from the memo is on page 32.
93   In the rubble of Tokyo: The Sony history is from John Nathan, Sony: The
     Private Life (Boston: Houghton Mifﬂin, 1999).
96   “If people like curiosity”: Loewenstein, “Psychology of Curiosity,” 86.

3. Concrete

99  “Business Buzzword Generator”: The buzzword generator was invented by
    W. Davis Folsom at the University of South Carolina–Aiken. See http://
    highered.mcgraw-hill.com/sites/0072537892/student_view0/business_jargon
    _exercise.html.
100 Concreteness helps us avoid these problems: The advantages of concrete
    ideas show up across psychology. Concrete ideas are more memorable. Per-
    haps the most interesting summary of this evidence is from a book by David
    Rubin, a cognitive psychologist at Duke University who has spent years trying
    to understand how aspects of culture—epic sagas, ballads, and children’s
    rhymes—propagate from person to person and generation to generation. His
    book Memory in Oral Traditions is a masterful summary of work across the
    humanities and psychology. Concrete elements are the most likely to survive
    transmission from one person to another because they are the easiest to un-
    derstand and remember. See David C. Rubin, Memory in Oral Traditions:
    The Cognitive Psychology of Epic, Ballads, and Counting-Out Rhymes (Ox-
    ford: Oxford University Press, 1995).
       Concrete ideas are also more understandable. In education research,
    Mark Sadoski, Ernest Goetz, and colleagues have published a number of
    interesting papers illustrating that concrete ideas are more understandable,
    memorable, and, as a side beneﬁt, more interesting. See Mark Sadoski, Ern-
    est T. Goetz, and Maximo Rodriguez, “Engaging Texts: Effects of Concrete-
    ness on Comprehensibility, Interest, and Recall in Four Text Types,” Journal
    of Educational Psychology 92 (2000): 85–95.
266                                  N OT E S

107 Yale researcher Eric Havelock: E. A. Havelock, Preface to Plato (Cambridge,
    Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1963).
107 Two professors from Georgia State University: Carol W. Springer and
    A. Faye Borthick, “Business Simulation to Stage Critical Thinking in Intro-
    ductory Accounting: Rationale, Design, and Implementation,” Issues in Ac-
    counting Education 19 (2004): 277–303.
111 Brown Eyes, Blue Eyes: The description of Jane Elliott’s antiprejudice simu-
    lation is taken from a PBS Frontline documentary, “A Class Divided.” It’s one
    of the most frequently requested programs in the station’s history, winning an
    Emmy for Outstanding Informational, Cultural, or Historical Programming
    in 1985. It can be seen on the Web at www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/
    shows/divided/etc/view.html.
112 Studies conducted ten and twenty years later: Phil Zimbardo, Psychology
    and Life, 12th ed. (Glenview, Ill.: Scott, Foresman, 1985), 634.
114 A researcher named Beth Bechky: B. A. Bechky, “Crossing Occupational
    Boundaries: Communication and Learning on a Production Floor,” Ph.D.
    diss., Stanford University, 1999.
116 The 727 must seat 131 passengers: Jim Collins and Jerry I. Porras, Built to
    Last: Successful Habits of Visionary Companies (New York: HarperBusiness,
    1994), 93.
116 The Ferraris Go to Disney World: The Stone-Yamashita work with HP is
    based on Victoria Chang and Chip Heath, “Stone-Yamashita and PBS: A
    Case at the Graduate School of Business,” Stanford University Graduate
    School of Business case study SM119 (2004).
120 Kaplan and Go Computers: This example is from a great book by Jerry Kap-
    lan: Start-Up: A Silicon Valley Adventure (Boston: Houghton Mifﬂin, 1995).
    It’s one of the best accounts we’ve read about the day-to-day uncertainty and
    struggle of being an entrepreneur and building a company. And it’s very
    funny.
121 My audience seemed tense: Ibid., 25–26.
122 Their investment valued: Kaplan’s company, later named Go Computers,
    ultimately failed because the technology of its time wasn’t sufﬁcient to sup-
    port pen-based computers. Nonetheless, the idea of pen-based computing
    was so sticky—the “pocketable radio” of its generation—that several other
    ﬁrms in addition to Kaplan’s arose and attracted venture capital dollars (and
    skilled engineering talent) to pursue the technology.
124 Diarrhea is one of the leading killers: Message 1 of the Oral Rehydration
    Therapy Clinic is from PSI, a Washington, D.C., nonproﬁt organization that
                                     N OT E S                                  267

    is doing innovative work on health for low-income populations. See www
    .psi.org/our_programs/products/ors.html.
125 “Do you know”: Message 2 of the Oral Rehydration Therapy Clinic is by
    James Grant, who, during his time at UNICEF, made changes that have
    been credited with saving the lives of more than 25 million children. Vacci-
    nation rates increased, for example, from 20 percent to 80 percent. This re-
    markable story is told in David Bornstein, How to Change the World: Social
    Entrepreneurs and the Power of New Ideas (Oxford: Oxford University Press,
    2004). See page 248 for the quote.
128 “Saddleback Sam” Rick Warren, The Purpose-Driven Church (Grand
    Rapids, Mich.: Zondervan, 1995): 169. Warren’s book explains the organizing
    principles of one of the largest and fastest-growing churches in the country.

4. Credible

131 “simply didn’t have the demeanor”: Daniel Q. Haney, “News That Ulcers
    Are Caused by Bacteria Travels Slowly to MDs,” Buffalo News, February 11,
    1996.
132 “It tasted like swamp water”: Manveet Kaur, “Doctor Who Discovered
    ‘Ulcer Bugs,’ ” New Straits Times, August 13, 2002, 6.
132 an important theme in modern medicine: Laura Beil, “A New Look at Old
    Ills: Research Finds Some Chronic Diseases May Be Infectious,” The Record
    (Northern New Jersey), March 24, 1997.
133 But if we’re skeptical about: Naturally sticky ideas are a great source of in-
    sight about the process of persuasion, and researchers who study persuasion
    in psychology would beneﬁt from studying them. Traditional studies of per-
    suasion in psychology have sidestepped the issue of credibility by creating a
    bunch of arguments, having people rate them for credibility, then using the
    ones that are rated as having high or low credibility. With the exception of a
    number of studies on the impact of authority, researchers have avoided trying
    to understand what makes messages credible. Yet rumors and urban legends
    regularly evolve features that ascribe credibility to bizarre claims. The
    “testable credentials” idea that we discuss in the chapter, for example, has
    been a feature of dozens of urban legends, yet it has not been discussed by the
    research literature on persuasion.
133 Around 1999, an e-mail message: The ﬂesh-eating banana legend is dis-
    cussed at www.snopes.com/medical/disease/bananas.asp.
135 Pam Lafﬁn, the Antiauthority: The story of Pam Lafﬁn is described in Bella
268                                   N OT E S

    English, “Sharing a Life Gone Up in Smoke,” Boston Globe, September 20,
    1998.
135 “I started smoking to look older”: From the website of the U.S. Centers for
    Disease Control and Prevention, www.cdc.gov/tobacco/christy/myth1.htm.
136 The Doe Fund sent a driver: We thank Spencer Robertson for this example.
138 “acquire a good deal”: Jan Harold Brunvand, The Vanishing Hitchhiker:
    American Urban Legends and Their Meanings (New York: W. W. Norton &
    Company, 1981), 7. This book is largely responsible for creating the urban
    legends craze in the United States. For years, folklorists had been writing arti-
    cles about the folklore of modern people, but this book by Brunvand was ac-
    cessible enough that everyone started hearing about urban legends—and
    they were shocked to hear that different versions of their local stories were
    being told by everyone else in the nation.
138 By making a claim tangible: There is a running debate in the psychology lit-
    erature on the impact that vivid details have on memory and credibility. In
    our view, the evidence is confusing because researchers have not been care-
    ful about distinguishing details that support or distract from a core message.
    People inevitably focus on and remember vivid details. When the vivid de-
    tails support the core message, it is more memorable and convincing, but ir-
    relevant vivid details can also distract people from the core and make a
    message less memorable and convincing (thus the concern, in educational
    psychology, about “seductive details”). A good summary of the issues can be
    found in Ernest T. Goetz and Mark Sadoski, “Commentary: The Perils of Se-
    duction: Distracting Details or Incomprehensible Abstractions?” Reading Re-
    search Quarterly 30 (1995), 500–11.
138 In 1986, Jonathan Shedler and Melvin Manis: Jonathan Shedler and
    Melvin Manis, “Can the Availability Heuristic Explain Vividness Effects?”
    Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 51 (1986), 26–36.
145 “If, say, a soccer team”: The Covey example is from an excerpt from his
    book reprinted in Fortune, November 29, 2004, 162.
149 A SHARK A DEER: We thank Tim O’Hara for the idea for the comparison
    in Message 2 of the Shark Attack Hysteria Clinic.
153 Edible Fabrics: William McDonough, 2003 Conradin Von Gugelberg
    Memorial Lecture on the Environment, Stanford University, February 11,
    2003; www.gsb.stanford.edu/news/headlines/2003_vongugelberg.shtml. See
    also Andrew Curry, “Green Machine,” U.S. News & World Report, August 5,
    2002, 36.
158 “The Emotional Tank”: “Emotional Tank” is from Jim Thompson, The
    Double-Goal Coach: Positive Coaching Tools for Honoring the Game and De-
                                      N OT E S                                   269

    veloping Winners in Sports and Life (New York: HarperCollins, 2003). The
    exercise is described on page 63. This book is a must-read for anyone who
    coaches kids’ sports.
159 But in the United States: The statistics in the Our Intuition Is Flawed Clinic
    about various causes of death are from the 2001 Statistical Abstract of the
    United States.
162 A few weeks before the NBA: The NBA rookie orientation is described in a
    great article by Michelle Kaufman, “Making a Play for Players,” Miami Her-
    ald, October 5, 2003.
163 At the NFL’s orientation: See Grant Wahl and L. Jon Wertheim, “Paternity
    Ward,” Sports Illustrated, May 4, 1998, 62.

5. Emotional

165 In 2004, some researchers at Carnegie Mellon: Deborah A. Small, George
    Loewenstein, and Paul Slovic, “Can Insight Breed Callousness? The Impact
    of Learning About the Identiﬁable Victim Effect on Sympathy,” working
    paper, University of Pennsylvania, 2005.
168 This chapter tackles the emotional component: This chapter focuses on
    the power of emotions to make people care, but research suggests that emo-
    tional ideas are also more memorable. Emotions increase memory for an
    event’s “gist or center.” Memory researchers talk about “weapon focus”—
    people who have been robbed or who have witnessed crimes often remember
    the perpetrator’s gun or knife with great clarity but remember little else (Reis-
    berg and Heuer, below). People remember the central emotional theme of
    an event and other things that are closely related in space or causal structure.
    Thus, highlighting the emotional content of an idea may be one way to focus
    people on a core message. See Daniel Reisberg and Friderike Heuer, “Mem-
    ory for Emotional Events” in Memory and Emotion, ed. Daniel Reisberg and
    Paula Hertel (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2004).
       Mark Sadoski and colleagues have found that emotional aspects of texts are
    rated as more important (Sadoski, Goetz, and Kangiser, 1988) and are re-
    called much better (Sadoski and Quest, 1990). Interestingly, the latter article
    is among several research studies that have found that things are more emo-
    tional when they are easy to visualize. Making things concrete not only helps
    make them understandable, it makes them emotional and helps people care.
    Mark Sadoski and Z. Quest, “Reader Recall and Long-term Recall for Jour-
    nalistic Text: The Roles of Imagery, Affect, and Importance,” Reading Re-
    search Quarterly 25 (1990), 256–72. Mark Sadoski, Ernest T. Goetz, and
270                                  N OT E S

    Suzanne Kangiser, “Imagination in Story Response: Relationships Between
    Imagery, Affect, and Structural Importance,” Reading Research Quarterly 23
    (1988), 320–36.
170 “We felt that [the Truth ads]”: “Smoke Signals,” LA Weekly, November
    24–30, 2000 (also found at www.laweekly.com/ink/01/01/offbeat.php).
170 American Journal of Public Health: The comparison of the “Truth” and
    “Think. Don’t Smoke” campaigns is in Matthew C. Farrelly, et al, “Getting
    to the Truth: Evaluating National Tobacco Countermarketing Campaigns,”
    American Journal of Public Health 92 (2002), 901–7.
171 associating themselves with emotions: This principle has been well-known
    since Ivan Pavlov won the Nobel Prize for teaching dogs to salivate in re-
    sponse to a bell. A fun discussion of the power of association is found in the
    chapter on “Liking” in Robert Cialdini’s book Inﬂuence: The Psychology of
    Persuasion (New York: Quill, 1993). Cialdini opens with the dilemma of the
    weatherman in a rainy city who regularly receives hate mail because viewers
    associate him with the news he delivers; he also discusses research on the
    “luncheon technique” that showed people were more likely to endorse polit-
    ical statements that they ﬁrst heard while eating lunch. Cialdini’s book is the
    classic study on inﬂuence and one of the best books in the social sciences.
171 “Rashomon can be seen as”: C. Vognar, “Japanese Film Legend Kurosawa
    Dies at 88,” Dallas Morning News, September 7, 1998, 1A.
172 In 1929, Einstein protested: Einstein’s comments about the way people
    used the term relativity is from David Bodanis, E = mc2: A Biography of the
    World’s Most Famous Equation (New York: Walker & Company, 2000).
    Quotes are on pages 84 and 261.
173 Research conducted at Stanford and Yale: Chip Heath and Roger Gould,
    “Semantic Stretch in the Marketplace of Ideas,” working paper, Stanford
    University, 2005. In this paper, Chip and Roger also showed that extreme syn-
    onyms for the word good (e.g., fantastic or amazing) are increasing in use
    faster than synonyms that are less extreme (okay or pretty good), and that ex-
    treme synonyms for bad (awful versus bad) show the same pattern. Either se-
    mantic stretch is happening or the world is becoming simultaneously much
    better and much worse.
175 Sportsmanship was once a powerful idea: Jim Thompson, The Double-Goal
    Coach: Positive Coaching Tools for Honoring the Game and Developing Win-
    ners in Sports and Life (New York: HarperCollins, 2003). Chapter 4 talks
    about the problems with sportsmanship and the idea of Honoring the Game.
177 In 1925, John Caples: The classic book on mail-order advertising is John
                                     N OT E S                                  271

    Caples, Tested Advertising Methods, 5th ed., revised by Fred E. Hahn (Para-
    mus, N.J.: Prentice Hall, 1997). Mail-order ads are frequently schlocky, but,
    as we say in the text, they’re one of the few places where advertisers get im-
    mediate, measurable feedback about what is and isn’t working. That means
    that there’s often a lot of wisdom to be gained in understanding why they look
    the way they do—someone has tested every attribute.
179 Jerry Weissman, a former TV producer: Jerry Weissman, Presenting to Win:
    The Art of Telling Your Story (New York: Financial Times Prentice Hall,
    2003). The quote is on page 18.
180 “Don’t say, ‘People will enjoy’ ”: Caples/Hahn, Tested Advertising, 133.
180 Cable TV in Tempe: W. Larry Gregory, Robert B. Cialdini, and Kathleen M.
    Carpenter, “Self-Relevant Scenarios as Mediators of Likelihood Estimates
    and Compliance: Does Imagining Make It So?” Journal of Personality and
    Social Psychology 43 (1982): 89–99.
183 In 1954, a psychologist named Abraham Maslow: Abraham Maslow, Moti-
    vation and Personality (New York: Harper, 1954).
183 Subsequent research suggests that the hierarchical: See any introductory
    book in psychology. Every textbook author prints a picture of Maslow’s hier-
    archy because it’s a great graphic, then confesses that the hierarchical aspect
    of his theory didn’t quite work.
184 Imagine that a company offers: The bonus and new job-framing studies are
    from Chip Heath, “On the Social Psychology of Agency Relationships: Lay
    Theories of Motivation Overemphasize Extrinsic Rewards,” Organizational
    Behavior and Human Decision Processes 78 (1999): 25–62.
186 Dining in Iraq: The Floyd Lee story is from a marvelous article by Julian
    E. Barnes, “A Culinary Oasis,” U.S. News & World Report, December 6,
    2004, 28.
187 The Popcorn Popper and Political Science: The popcorn popper story is
    from Caples/Hahn, Tested Advertising, 71.
188 When faced with afﬁrmative action: Donald Kinder, “Opinion and Action
    in the Realm of Politics,” in Handbook of Social Psychology, ed. Daniel T.
    Gilbert, Susan T. Fiske, and Gardner Lindzey, 4th ed. (London: Oxford Uni-
    versity Press, 1988), 778–867. The extended quote is from page 801.
190 A related idea comes from James March: James March describes the two
    patterns of making decisions—consequence versus identity—in Chapters 1
    and 2 of James G. March, A Primer on Decision Making (New York: Free
    Press, 1994). Economic analysis, in particular, assumes that all decisions are
    made on the basis of consequences, so it makes incorrect predictions in a
272                                     N OT E S

    number of arenas where identity is important; most economists would be sur-
    prised that the “Don’t Mess with Texas” campaign would work without im-
    posing ﬁnes for littering.
192 In a 1993 conference on “Algebra”: Message 1 in the Idea Clinic is from
    Joseph G. Rosenstein, Janet H. Caldwell, and Warren G. Crown, New Jersey
    Mathematics Curriculum Framework (New Jersey: New Jersey Department of
    Education, 1996).
194 message 3: Dean Sherman’s response and an extended discussion of this
    question among algebra teachers can be found at http://mathforum.org/t2t/
    thread.taco?thread=1739.
195 Dan Syrek is the nation’s leading: Seth Kantor, “Don’t Mess With Texas
    Campaign Scores Direct Hit with Rufﬁan Litterers,” Austin American-
    Statesman, August 4, 1989, A1.
196 “We call him Bubba”: Allyn Stone, “The Anti-Litter Campaign in Texas
    Worked Just Fine,” San Francisco Chronicle, November 28, 1988, A4.
197 Too-Tall Jones steps toward: The Dallas Cowboys spot is described in Rob-
    ert Reinhold, “Texas Is Taking a Swat at Litterbugs,” New York Times, De-
    cember 14, 1986.
198 The Department of Transportation originally: Marj Charlier, “Like Much
    in Life, Roadside Refuse Is Seasonally Adjusted,” The Wall Street Journal, Au-
    gust 3, 1989.

6. Stories

204 The nurse was working: The story about the blue-black baby is found in
    Gary Klein, Sources of Power: How People Make Decisions (Cambridge,
    Mass.: MIT Press, 1998), 178–79.
206 stories make people act: As in previous chapters, this chapter highlights one
    virtue of stories—encouraging action—but we could have discussed others.
    Stories also help people understand and remember. It’s hard to tell an ab-
    stract story, so stories inherit all the virtues of the Concrete, but they also serve
    as Simple (core and compact) ways of integrating lots of information. Re-
    search on jury decision-making shows that jurors rely heavily on stories to
    decide on their verdicts. Jurors confront masses of facts, presented in a scram-
    bled sequence with substantial gaps in the record, ﬁltered through the obvi-
    ous personal biases of witnesses. How do they deal with this complexity? It
    turns out they spontaneously construct a story (or stories) to account for this
    welter of information, then match their personal story with the stories told by
    the prosecution and the defense and choose whichever side tells a story that
                                     N OT E S                                   273

    best matches their own. In one study in this area, Nancy Pennington and
    Reid Hastie showed that verdicts shifted depending on how easily jurors were
    able to construct a story, even when identical information was presented.
    When the defense presented evidence in the order of an unfolding story but
    the prosecution presented evidence out of story order, only 31 percent of ju-
    rors voted to convict the defendant. When exactly the same information was
    presented but the defense presented witnesses out of order and the prosecu-
    tion presented witnesses in story order, 78 percent of the jurors voted to con-
    vict. Jurors felt most conﬁdent in their decision when both sides presented in
    story order; people like to understand both stories, to see the evidence clearly
    in their mind, and then decide. See Nancy Pennington and Reid Hastie, “Ex-
    planation-based Decision Making: Effects of Memory Structure on Judg-
    ment,” Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory & Cognition
    14 (1988): 521–33.
        Stories also improve credibility. Researchers Melanie Green and Timothy
    Brock point out that attitudes formed by direct experience are more powerful,
    and stories give us the feeling of real experience. They show that people are
    more likely to be persuaded by a story when they are “transported” by it—
    when they feel more wrapped up in their mental simulation. See Melanie C.
    Green and Timothy C. Brock, “The Role of Transportation in the Persua-
    siveness of Public Narratives,” Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 79
    (2000): 701–21.
207 The new XER board conﬁguration: Julian E. Orr, Talking About Machines:
    An Ethnography of a Modern Job (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press,
    1996). The dicorotron story is on page 137.
209 “John put on his sweatshirt”: This study is among dozens of studies that sup-
    port the importance of mental simulation. For a review, see Rolf A. Zwaan
    and Gabriel A. Radvansky, “Situation Models in Language Comprehension
    and Memory,” Psychological Bulletin 123 (1998): 162–85. Not only do peo-
    ple mentally simulate space, they also simulate time. In a story about people
    entering a movie theater, respondents are more likely to recognize a refer-
    ence to “the projectionist” if only ten minutes have elapsed in the story than
    if six hours have elapsed, even if both references are just a few sentences away
    on the page from the line about the movie theater.
210 no such thing as a passive audience: The best overview of the “active reader”
    research is provided by Richard Gerrig, a researcher in the ﬁeld. See Experi-
    encing Narrative Worlds: On the Psychological Activities of Reading (New
    Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1988). Gerrig says that Samuel Cole-
    ridge was wrong to describe our ability to appreciate stories as the “suspension
274                                     N OT E S

    of disbelief,” because his quote implies that the default state of humans is skep-
    tical disbelief. In fact, the real state is the opposite. It’s easy to get wrapped up
    in a story; it’s hard to evaluate arguments skeptically, disbelieving them until
    they are proven. One of our favorite illustrations of the power of simulation is
    Gerrig’s research on stories with well-known endings. When people are in the
    middle of a story, they often get so wrapped up in the simulation that they mo-
    mentarily act as though they’d forgotten an obvious ending. Watch out for that
    iceberg, Titanic!
212 Why does mental simulation work?: The tapping, Eiffel Tower, lemon
    juice, and other examples are from Mark R. Dadds, Dana H. Bovbejerg,
    William H. Redd, and Tim R. H. Cutmore, “Imagery in Human Classical
    Conditioning,” Psychological Bulletin 122 (1997): 89–103.
213 A review of thirty-ﬁve studies: James E. Driskell, Carolyn Copper, and Aidan
    Moran, “Does Mental Practice Enhance Performance?” Journal of Applied
    Psychology 79 (1994): 481–92.
215 Dealing with Problem Students: Message 1 is from a tip sheet, “Tips for
    Dealing with Student Problem Behaviors,” from the Ofﬁce for Professional
    Development, Indiana University–Purdue University Indianapolis. See www
    .opd.iupui.edu/uploads/library/IDD/IDD6355.doc. Message 2, by Alison
    Buckman, was originally posted to http://research.umbc.edu/~korenman/
    wmst/disruptive_students2.html.
219 When Fogle registered: Ryan Coleman, “Indiana U. Senior Gains New Per-
    spective on Life,” Indiana Daily Student, April 29, 1999.
221 In 1999, Subway’s sales: Performance statistics for Subway, Schlotzky’s, and
    Quiznos are from Bob Sperber, “In Search of Fresh Ideas,” Brandweek, Octo-
    ber 15, 2001, M54.
225 Blumkin is a Russian woman: Rose Blumkin is described by Warren Buffett
    in his 1983 shareholder letter (see www.berkshirehathaway.com/letters/1983
    .html).
226 These three basic plots: These results are from Chip’s research at Stanford.
    After studying urban legends for a while—stories that frequently specialize in
    creating negative emotions such as fear, anger, or disgust—he asked whether
    there were stories that circulated because they produced positive emotions.
    The Chicken Soup for the Soul stories were the obvious place to start. The re-
    search on the frequencies of the three plots was done by giving raters the clas-
    siﬁcation system but no other information about the hypotheses of the
    research. Even though raters worked independently, pairs of raters who saw
    the same stories showed strong agreement on classiﬁcations.
                                      N OT E S                                   275

       Another Stanford study suggests that these three plots are a good way to en-
    sure that your stories are more inspiring. Students were given the assignment
    of ﬁnding a true story that would inspire their classmates, either from their
    own lives or from some public source. Later, their fellow students rated the
    stories on their ability to inspire—to make them feel proud, excited, and de-
    termined. Stories that featured one of the three plots were much more likely
    to wind up in the top half of the stories. Of the stories that wound up in the
    top 10 percent, all had one or more of the three plots.
       Another study showed that each plot drives a speciﬁc form of activity. Peo-
    ple read through a selection of stories, one per day, and recorded how they
    felt after reading each story. Challenge plots made people want to set higher
    goals, to take on new challenges, to work harder and persist longer. Connec-
    tion plots made people want to work with others, to reach out and help
    them, and to be more tolerant. Creativity plots made people want to do
    something different, to be creative, to experiment with new approaches.
    Thus, the right stories not only tell us how to act, they operate as a kind of
    psychological battery pack, giving us the energy to take action. Notably,
    none of these stories was more likely to drive “feel good” activity. People
    weren’t more likely to was to do something to enjoy themselves—to listen to
    good music, watch television, or eat a good meal; instead, they wanted to go
    out and accomplish something. Thus these stories drive productive action,
    not passive self-involvement.
227 In response, Jesus told a story: The Good Samaritan story is from the New
    International Version of the Bible, Luke 10:25–37.
229 Ingersoll-Rand: The story of the Grinder Team is told in Chapter 6 of Tom
    Peters, Liberation Management (New York: Knopf, 1992).
231 Stories at the World Bank: This section is based on two excellent books by
    Stephen Denning. His ﬁrst book, about the role of storytelling in organiza-
    tions, is The Springboard: How Storytelling Ignites Action in Knowledge-Era
    Organizations (Boston: Butterworth-Heinemann, 2001). There are dozens of
    books available that talk about the role of storytelling in organizations and or-
    ganizational culture; The Springboard is the best book on the subject, and
    among the best business books of any kind. A follow-up book that describes a
    number of story plots other than springboard stories is The Leader’s Guide to
    Storytelling: Mastering the Art and Discipline of Business Narrative (San
    Francisco: Josey-Bass, 2005), The “corporate Siberia” quote is from a talk by
    Stephen Denning at IDEO, June 9, 2005.
233 “This is a very strange conversation”: Denning, The Leader’s Guide, 63.
276                                 N OT E S

233 “Why not spell out the message”: Denning, The Springboard, 80.
234 “little voice inside the head”: Denning, The Leader’s Guide, 62.
235 Klein tells another story: The story of the failed conference summaries is
    from Klein, Sources of Power, 195–96.

Epilogue: What Sticks

238 As recounted by Ralph Keyes: Ralph Keyes, Nice Guys Finish Seventh: False
    Phrases, Spurious Sayings and Familiar Misquotations (New York: Harper-
    Collins, 1992). This book is ﬁlled with interesting examples of how proverbs
    evolve and change as they spread in society.
                   A C K N O W L E D G M E N T S

Several people gave feedback on our initial proposal, which needed a
lot of work. We thank the following people for helping us create a
document that was compelling enough to pass the ﬁrst essential test:
Doug Crandall, James Dailey, Ben Ellis, John Lin, Tom Prehn,
Chloe Sladden, and Craig Yee.
    When we ﬁnished the ﬁrst half of the book, we were very excited
and anxious to get some feedback. So we sent it to a bunch of friends
and colleagues, who humored us and sent along written feedback.
They also saved you, the reader, from lots of unconvincing and unin-
teresting anecdotes, like the one about the Charm Bracelet Punch-
line, so you owe them some gratitude as well. Here is the roll call of
good people: Daryl Anderson, E. Joseph Arias, Deena Bahri, Amy
Bryant, Mark and Chelsea Dinsmore, Julie Balovich, Danny Fitel-
son, Alfred Edmond, Michael Erisman, Chris Ertel, Erika Faust,
Craig Fox, Emmet Gaffney, Lisa Gansky, Liz Gerber, Julio Gonza-
lez, Eric Guenther, Steven Guerrero, Susanna Hamner and Byron
Penstock, Tod and Susan Hays, Fred and Brenda Heath, Ian Hill, Joe
Lassiter, Alex Kazaks, Brian Kelly, Paul Marshall, George Miller,
Shara Morales, Michael Morris, Derek Newton, Justin Osofsky, Jeff
Pfeffer, Bill Sahlman, Andrew and Katie Solomon, Melissa Studzin-
278                      ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

ski, Mark Schlueter, Paul Schumann, Steven Slon, Amy and Walter
Surdacki, Bob Sutton, Mike Sweeney, Anthony Trendl, Ed Uye-
shima, Steve and Trae Vassallo, Rachel Ward, Keith Yamashita.
Thank you all—you gave us the feedback we needed when it was
most useful.
    Here is a hodgepodge of thank yous for people who helped us in
distinctive ways. Thank you to Noah Weiss, who spent hours comb-
ing obsure sources for interesting examples in the early stages, and to
Maggie Cong-Huyen, who picked up where he left off. Special
thanks to Jeff Saunders for pointing out Commander’s Intent. Thanks
to Chip’s students in several years of OB 368 classes, who helped re-
ﬁne and test this framework. Thanks to Chip’s collaborators who
helped work out many of these ideas: Adrian Bangerter, Chris Bell,
Jonah Berger, Sanford Devoe, Nate Fast, Alison Fragale, Emily
Sternberg, Scott Wiltermuth. Thanks to the following people who
read the book and helped collect examples for the international edi-
tions: Eugine Chong, Hide Doi, Atsuko Jenks, Hyun Kim, Motoki
Korenaga, Andreas Kornstaedt, and Noriko Masuda.
    Now for the paragraph of people whose work inspired us. You
didn’t have anything to do with this book, and yet you had a lot to do
with this book. A fan letter to: Edward Tufte, Don Norman, Malcolm
Gladwell, James Carville, Stephen Denning, Robert McKee, Andy
Goodman, Jim Thompson, Steven Tomlinson, Edward Burger,
George Wolfe, David Placek, Keith Yamashita, Jacob Goldenberg,
George Loewenstein, Robert Cialdini, Mark Schaller, David Rubin,
Jan Brunvand, and many others that we’re going to kick ourselves for
not including by press time.
    To our agents Don Lamm and Christy Fletcher, we are deeply
grateful to you for making this experience possible. And thank you to
Mark Fortier, for spreading the word about the book.
    It is obligatory to thank your publisher. According to what we’ve
heard from other authors, you usually have to say thanks through grit-
ted teeth. This is our ﬁrst book, and in the process of getting it to mar-
                        ACKNOWLEDGMENTS                             279

ket, we were supposed to accumulate a lot of publishing horror sto-
ries. We were supposed to feel underappreciated and undersup-
ported. Random House has been an utter failure on this front. The
people at Random House have been such a joy to work with, so un-
expectedly and unnecessarily nice, that it’s hard to know where to
begin. Thanks to: Debbie Aroff, Avideh Bashirrad, Rachel Bernstein,
Nicole Bond, Evan Camﬁeld, Gina Centrello, Kristin Fassler, Jen-
nifer Hershey, Stephanie Huntwork, Jennifer Huwer, London King,
Sally Marvin, Dan Menaker, Jack Perry, Tom Perry, Kelle Ruden,
Robbin Schiff, and Carol Schneider. And Sanyu Dillon, my good-
ness, how can we adequately express our appreciation for all that
you’ve done? Unbelievable.
    And a huge, engraved, foil-embossed, calligraphied thank you to
our amazing editor, Ben Loehnen. Our parents will read this book
once, if we’re lucky. (An aside: Our dad has a Quantity Theory of Lit-
erature, which says that it’s not worth reading a book with fewer than
four hundred pages. We’re relying purely on connections to get a
read out of him.) Meanwhile, Ben has read this thing probably a
dozen times without ever breaking down, at least in front of us. Ben,
you are endlessly patient, thoughtful, insightful, and supportive.
Okay, this is starting to sound like we’re signing your yearbook. (Stay
cool!) But, really, we know we gave you a lot to stomach at times. Like
our duct tape campaign.
    Now to our family, who put up with us. We owe you this heartfelt
thank you, which really has nothing to do with this book and every-
thing to do with your support of us in all that we do. This section just
gives us a great opportunity to put it in black and white. Thanks,
Mom and Dad, for giving us co-authors. Thanks, Susan. Thanks,
Emory. Thanks, sister Susan. Thanks, Tod, Hunter, and Darby.
    We hope you enjoy the book. We had fun writing it.
                                     I N D E X

abstraction                                 AIDS, NBA rookie orientation on,
  disadvantages of, 99–100, 103–4,                162–63
     106, 129, 215                          Ainscow, Geoff, 141, 142, 147, 150
  as hazard of expertise, 113–14, 115       algebra
  See also Curse of Knowledge                  reasons to study, 192–95
accounting, case study teaching                word problems and, 214
     methods for, 107–9                        See also mathematics
action                                      Alien (ﬁlm), 58–59
  prerequisites for, 168–69, 206            American Legacy Foundation, 169–70
  stories as spur to, 206, 222, 227, 234,   analogies, 57, 59
     274–75n. 226                              in advertising, 260n. 22
Ad Council, 22, 66–67                          algebra as mental weight training,
Adams, Hoover, 42–45, 48, 71–72                   194–95
“advanced organizers” (teaching                generative (Disney employees as
     strategy), 92–93                             cast), 60–62
advertisements                                 for statistics, soccer team and
  antismoking, 135, 136, 169–71,                  company, rock from sun to earth,
     177                                          143–47, 149–50
  mail-order, 177–80, 182                      See also “Emotional Tank” analogy;
  templates for success of, 22–24, 225,           schemas
     260n. 22                               Analytical Hat (resistance to emotional
  unexpectedness in, 66–67                        appeals), 167, 171, 203
Aesop, 98–99, 100, 223                      antiauthorities, as sources of credibility,
Africa                                            134–37, 155, 156, 164, 223
  fundraising appeals for, 165–68, 182      Aristotle, 226
  U.S. aid to, 264n. 78                     Arledge, Roone, 90–92, 248, 254
  World Bank projects in, 231–33, 257       Armstrong, Lance, 175, 176, 227
282                                   INDEX

Army, U.S.                                Blumkin, Rose, 225, 227
   Commander’s Intent and, 25–27, 28,     Boeing 727, design goals for, 116
      46                                  Bollywood, ﬁlm shipping for, 151–52
   mess hall in Iraq, 185–87, 191         Borthick, Faye, 107
Asia, math teaching in, 104–6, 108, 254   Boyfriend’s Death (urban legend),
associations, emotional power of,              137–38
      171–77, 199, 200–1, 256, 270n.      Braungart, Michael, 153, 154
      171                                 Brock, Timothy C., 273n. 206
   See also emotions; “semantic           Brown Eyes, Blue Eyes, 111–13, 266n.
      stretch”                                 111
attention, ways to command, 64–66,        Brunvand, Jan, 138, 268n. 138
      68–69, 80–85, 97, 194, 264 n. 80    “Bubba” (antilitter campaign target),
   See also credibility; curiosity;            196–99
      emotions; mysteries; stories;       Buckman, Alyson, 216–17
      unexpectedness                      Buffett, Warren, 225
audience                                  Built to Last (Collins), 73
   as judge of “stickiness,” 240          “burying the lead,” 32, 34, 41, 77
   as source of credibility, 150, 157,    buzzwords, abstract nature of, 99–100,
      163–64                                   235–37
   the unpassive audience, 208–210
   See also credentials, testable;        cable TV, promotional study for,
      credibility                              180–82
authorities, as sources of credibility,   California, environmental protection
      133–34, 137, 155, 156, 164               in, 100–4
“availability bias,” 159–61               Caples, John, 177–80, 181, 182, 187,
                                               196
baby, in neonatal unit, 204–6             caring
bacteria                                    as prerequisite for action, 168–69,
  as scientiﬁc cause of ulcers, 130–32,        171
     250, 255                               ways to evoke, 171–203, 206
  ﬂesh-eating, on bananas, 133              See also associations; empathy;
Beatles, “Hey Jude,” 110                       identity; self-interest; stories
Bechky, Beth, 114, 115                    Carnegie Mellon University, charitable
Begala, Paul, 29                               giving survey by, 165–67
belief. See credibility                   Carter-Reagan debate (1980), 17, 158
Bell Laboratories, 93, 94, 95             Carville, James, 29, 33–34, 50, 239–40
Best, Joel, 14, 259n. 13                  celebrities, as authorities, 134
Beyond War movement, 141–43,              cell-phone task learning, 259–60 n. 19
     147                                  Center for Disease Control (CDC),
Bible stories. See David and Goliath;          website for, 232
     Good Samaritan                       Center for Science in the Public
“bird in hand” proverb, 47, 61                 Interest (CSPI), 6–8, 14, 146
  See also proverbs                       Cervantes, Miguel de, 47, 48
                                        INDEX                                    283

Challenge plot, for inspirational stories,     framework for, 246–47
      226–27, 229, 230, 231, 249, 257,         sequencing information in, 93
      274–75n. 226                             solutions to problems in, 247–49
charitable giving, psychology of,              as two-stage process, 245–46, 247
      165–68                                   See also speech-making; stories
   See also caring; empathy; Mother          complexity
      Teresa effect                            compact expressions of, 51–52,
chemicals, non-toxic, 153–55                      61–62
Chicken Soup for the Soul (book                as product of simplicity, 53–57
      series), 12, 225–26, 229, 231            See also analogies; fables; proverbs;
choice, and decision paralysis, 34,               schemas
      36–37                                  computers, pen-based, 120–23, 266n.
Cialdini, Robert, 80–82, 84, 264 n. 81,           122
      270n. 171                              concreteness
Ciba-Geigy (chemical ﬁrm), 154                 as brainstorming technique, 119–23,
cigarette smoking. See smoking                    125, 126
Cisco corporation, wireless networking         deﬁnition of, 104
      at, 145–46                               in fables, 99, 223
clinics. See Idea Clinics                      as goal-setting aid, 116
Clinton, William Jefferson (“Bill”),           as math teaching strategy, 104–6
      presidential campaign of 1992,           as “stickiness” principle, 17, 78, 79,
      33–34, 50, 239–40                           98–129, 148, 217, 222–23, 237,
coaching seminars. See Positive                   248, 254, 265 n. 100, 272 n. 206
      Coaching Alliance (PCA)                  as universal language, 115, 118, 123
Coad, Richard, 219–21                        Connection plot, for inspirational
Coca-Cola                                         stories, 226, 227–29, 237, 257,
   Mean Joe Greene commercial,                    274–75 n. 226
      228–29                                 Connolly, Greg, 135
   as source of rotting bones in Japan,      conspiracy theories, 68–69
      11                                     core message
coconut oil, 6, 8                              compactness in, 45–46, 48, 51–52,
Cold War, and space race, 95–96                   62
Coleridge, Samuel, 273–74 n. 210               details in support of, 139–41, 268n.
Collins, Jim, 73                                  138
Commander’s Intent statement (CI),             emotional content and, 269–70n.
      26–28, 46                                   168
   at Dunn Daily Record, 45                    exercises in deﬁning, 38–41, 51–52,
   of Southwest Airlines, 29, 30                  199–201
   See also core message                       importance of, 27–28, 32, 37, 56–57,
common sense, as enemy of “sticki-                62, 129, 237, 240, 241, 244
      ness,” 72                                sharing, 43–46, 48–50, 62
communication                                  surprise presentation of, 66–67, 70,
   common advice on, 9–10                         71–72, 96–97
284                                      INDEX

core message (cont’d):                        David and Goliath (story), 226, 249
  See also fables; pitches, high-             decision paralysis, 34–37, 45, 244, 253,
     concept; prioritization, forced;              261 n. 35
     proverbs; simplicity                     deer, as threats to life, 149–50
Covey, Stephen, 144–45, 255                   Denning, Stephen, 231–35, 257
Cray, Ed, 32                                  details, as credibility sources, 137–41,
creativity                                         153, 155, 163, 164, 268 n. 138
  power of spotting vs., 240–42, 257             See also Sinatra Test; statistics
  systematic approaches to, 21–25             diarrhea, treatment for. See oral
Creativity plot, for inspirational stories,        rehydration salts
     226, 229–30, 231, 249, 257,              Die Hard (ﬁlm), 58–59
     274–75n. 226                             DiMuro, Peter, 140
credentials, testable, 157–61, 260 n. 22,     Disney employees, as “cast members,”
     267n. 133                                     60–62, 253
credibility                                   Disney World simulation, 117–18,
  sources of, 132–47, 150, 151–59,                 146
     162–64, 267n. 133, 268 n. 138,           Doe Fund, 136
     272–73n. 206                             Doerr, John, 122
  as stickiness principle, 17, 125,           “Don’t Mess With Texas” (antilitter
     130–64, 206, 248, 255                         slogan), 197–99, 249, 271–72n.
curiosity                                          190
  as byproduct of unexpectedness, 16,         Drag Test, 230, 231
     254                                      drugs, public service ads against, 22
  “gap theory” of, 84–85, 87, 88–93,          Dunn (N.C.), 42
     96, 264n. 81                             Duo Piano group. See Murray Dranoff
  screenwriting and, 82–84                         Duo Piano Foundation
  See also attention; interest                Durocher, Leo, 238–39, 240
Curse of Knowledge                            Dwyer, Thomas, 140, 141
  as barrier to concreteness, 114–15
  as barrier to emotion, 199, 201             “Economy, stupid,” 33–34
  as barrier to simplicity, 46, 57            8th Habit, The (Covey), 144–45
  creating preference for morals over         Einstein, Albert, 171, 172
     stories, 237                             Ekman, Paul, 68
  further research in, 253                    “Elementary, my dear Watson,” 239
  as reason for SUCCESs framework,            Elliott, Jane, 111–13, 251–52
     244–47                                   Emergency room, IDEO ﬁlm, 201–2
  and tapping game, 19–21, 259–60n.           “Emotional Tank” analogy, 158–59,
     19                                            255, 268–69 n. 158
                                              emotions
Daily Record (Dunn, N.C.), 42–45, 48,           analytical thinking and, 167, 171,
    71–72                                          203
dance project, 140–41                           biological purposes of, 67
“Darth Vader toothbrush,” 138, 139              inspiration and, 222
                                        INDEX                                  285

  mental simulations and, 212              General Mills, 126–28
  power of association and, 171–74,        Georgia State University, accounting
     256                                        class at, 107–9
  as “stickiness” principle, 17–18,        Gerrig, Richard, 273–74 n. 210
     165–203, 214, 223, 237, 255,          gimmickry, avoidance of, 69, 71, 75
     269–70n. 168                          Gladwell, Malcolm, 13
  See also caring; unexpectedness          Goetz, Ernest, 265 n. 100, 268 n. 138
empathy, ways of creating, 202, 203,       Golden Rule, as model of simplicity,
     209, 234, 256                              16, 48
  See also caring; emotions; Mother        Good Samaritan (biblical story),
     Teresa effect                              227–29
“Enclave” minivan advertisement,           Gould, Roger, 270n. 173
     66–67, 69–70                          Grant, James, 124–25, 267 n. 125
environmental protection, 100–4,           Greek epics, concreteness of, 107
     153–55, 254                           Green, Melanie C., 273n. 206
Ephron, Nora, 75–76, 80, 88, 97,           “group interest,” 189–90
     251                                     See also identity
epidemics, social, 13
experts, as authorities, 133–34            Halloween-candy rumors, 13–15
                                           Hamburger Helper, 126–28, 255
fables, 98–99, 100, 223                    Harry Potter series, bookstore delivery
fats, saturated, 6–8, 251                       for, 152
“feature creep,” 48–50                     Hastie, Reid, 272–73 n. 206
feelings. See emotions                     Havelock, Eric, 107
ﬁre safety ﬁlm, marketing for, 187–88,     Hawkins, Jeff, 49–50, 244
       190–91                              Heath, Chip, 10–12, 15, 102, 199,
ﬂight-safety announcements, 63–64,              270 n. 173, 271 n. 184, 274–75n.
       250                                      226
Fogle, Jared, 15–16, 218–24, 227, 231,     Heath, Dan, 10–12
       242, 249, 251, 257                  Hewlett Packard (HP), 117–18
Folsom, W. Davis, 265n. 99                 high-concept pitches in Hollywood,
football                                        57–60
   broadcasting college, 90–92             Hinds, Pamela J., 259–60 n. 19
   coaching and sportsmanship, 174–76      HIV-AIDS, NBA rookie orientation on,
foreign aid                                     162–63
   messages on, 77–79                      Holmes, Sherlock (ﬁctional character),
   See also Africa                              239, 240
Foreman, George, 197, 198                  homeless men, rehabilitation program
“Fox and the Grapes, The” (Aesop),              for, 136
       98–99                               Honoring the Game (sportsmanship
                                                slogan), 176
“gap theory” of curiosity, 84–85, 87,      Horiuchi, Gerald, 14
     88–93, 96                             hospital, video for, 201–2
286                                      INDEX

human-scale principle, for statistics,      intuition. See “availability bias”
   143–46, 255                              inverted pyramid, 31

IIbuka, Masaru, 93–95, 96, 97               Jain, Rubal, 151–52
Idea Clinics, 37–38                         Japan
   on “availability bias,” 159–61              classic ﬁlm from, 171-72
   on oral rehydration therapy (ORT),          math teaching in, 105–6
      123–26                                   transistor radio project in, 93–95, 97,
   on problem student behavior,                   116
      215–17                                Jared (Subway ad spokesman). See
   on shark attacks, 148–50                       Fogle, Jared
   on sun exposure, 38–41                   Jaws (ﬁlm), 59
   on theater fund-raising presentation,    Jones, Ed “Too-Tall,” 197
      86–87                                 journalism, high school class in, 75–76,
   on U.S. foreign aid spending, 77–79            80, 88, 97
   on “why study algebra?” 192–95              See also news stories; sports, TV
idea-spotting, 224–26, 230–31, 240–42             coverage of
ideas, why they survive. See “stickiness”   jury trials, impact of details in, 138–39,
identity                                          272–73 n. 206
   appeals to, 197–99, 249
   as basis for decisions, 190–91           Kaplan, Jerry, 120–23, 125, 266 nn.
   See also “group interest”                     120–22
IDEO (design ﬁrm), 201–2, 275 n. 231        Kelleher, Herb, 29, 37, 56
incentives. See caring; self-interest       Kelly, Tom, 50
Indiana Daily Student (newspaper),          Kennedy, John F. (JFK)
      219                                     JFK FBI exercise, 52
information. See knowledge manage-            man on the moon speech, 21, 95–97,
      ment                                       116, 250, 257
Ingersoll-Rand company, 229–30              Kentucky Fried Rat, 11, 106, 250
inspiration                                 Keyes, Ralph, 238
   as spur to action, 206, 222, 227         Kidney Heist legend, 3–4, 5, 8, 15, 106,
   stories as, 18, 206, 218–24, 225–37,          225–26, 250
      256–57                                Kinder, Donald, 188–89
interest                                    King, Martin Luther, Jr., assassination
   and desire to solve mysteries, 80–84,         of, 111
      87                                    Klein, Gary, 205–6, 235–37
   as response to unexpectedness, 16,       Kleiner Perkins (venture capital ﬁrm),
      65–66                                      120–23
   situational, 84–85                       Knowledge, Curse of. See Curse of
   See also attention; curiosity                 Knowledge
Internet                                    knowledge gaps. See context; “gap
   as public health resource, 232, 233,          theory” of curiosity
      235, 257                              knowledge management, as World
   rumors spread by, 133–34                      Bank priority, 231–33, 235
                                     INDEX                                    287

Kolditz, Tom, 25–27                       Miller, George, 262n. 51
Koop, C. Everett, 17                      minivan crash advertisement, 66–67
Krause, Barry, 220–21                     misquotations, “stickiness” of, 238–39,
Ku Klux Klan (KKK), 157, 226                  240
                                          Mother Teresa effect, 165, 166, 168,
Lafﬁn, Pam, 134–36, 223, 255                  203, 249, 255
Lakoff, George, 262–63 n. 54              motivation. See caring; self-interest;
lead, the                                     springboard stories
    burying, 30–32                        Mount Hamilton Wilderness (Calif.),
    “no school next Thursday” 75–76           102–3
Leader’s Guide to Storytelling, The       movie theaters, popcorn in, 6–8,
      (Denning), 275n. 231                    14–15, 16, 17–18, 146–47, 251
Lee, Floyd, 186–87, 191, 203, 251, 256,   movies
      257                                   Alien, Die Hard, Jaws, Speed, 57–60
Lerman, Liz, 140                            “high concept” for, 57–60, 262–63n.
litter, Texas ad campaign against,            54
      195–99, 249, 256                      Trading Places, 82–84
Liz Lerman Dance Exchange (LLDE),           turning points in, 82–84, 264–65n.
      140–41                                  83
Loewenstein, George, 84–85, 89, 91,       Murphy, Eddie, 82
      96, 264n. 80, 265 n. 84             Murray Dranoff Duo Piano Founda-
                                              tion, 199–201, 246, 256
MacGyver plot. See Creativity plot        mysteries, as attention-getting devices,
Manis, Melvin, 138                            80–82, 87, 264 n. 80
March, James, 190
Marshall, Barry, 130–32, 163–64           “Names, names, and names”, 44–46,
Maslow, Abraham, hierachy of human             48, 71–72, 244, 249
    needs by, 183–85, 186, 187, 193,      National Basketball Association (NBA),
    195, 203, 223, 247, 249, 256               rookie orientation in, 162–63
mathematics, Asian teaching methods       National Football League (NFL),
    for, 104–6, 108, 254                       rookie orientation in, 163
 See also algebra                         Nature Conservancy, The (TNC),
Mayer, Richard, 262n. 54                       100–4, 254
Mazur, Eric, 89                           NCAA football games, broadcasts,
McDonough, Bill, 153–55                        90–92
McKee, Robert, 83–84, 85, 226,            Nelson, Willie, 197, 198
    264–65n. 83                           news stories
memorability. See “stickiness”              inverted pyramid, 30–32, 54–55, 57,
memory                                         261 n. 31
 “chunking” principle of, 262n. 51          leads in, 30–32, 34, 41, 54–55, 75–76
 Velcro theory of, 109–11, 254              local focus in, 43–45
mental rehearsals, value of, 18             teaser ads for, 85, 86, 88
metaphors. See analogies; proverbs;       Newton, Elizabeth, 19
    schemas                               Newton, Isaac, 22
288                                    INDEX

Nice Guys Finish Last (Durocher), 239       pomelo, as schema example, 53–55,
Nice Guys Finish Seventh (Keyes),                 58, 253
     238–39                                 popcorn, saturated fat and, 6–8, 14–15,
Nobel Prize in medicine, winners of,              16, 17–18, 146–47, 251
     132                                    popcorn popper, as ﬁre-safety ﬁlm
Nordstrom (department store), 73–75,              giveaway, 187–88
     82, 97, 104, 236, 240–41, 242, 247     Porras, Jerry, 73
“No school next Thursday” lead,             Positive Coaching Alliance (PCA),
     75–76                                        158–59, 174, 175–76
Nostradamus, prophecies of, 12              prejudice, racial, 111–13, 251, 254
“nurse story.” See pneumopericardium,       principles, and self-interest, 189, 190
     emergency treatment of                 prioritization, forced, 32–33, 34, 37, 43,
nutrition, USDA guidelines for, 6–7               45
                                               See also core message; simplicity
Ocweija, Bob, 219–20, 251                   problem-solving
O’Hara, Tim, 268n. 149                         springboard stories and, 233–35
Oprah Winfrey Show, The, 148, 221              visualization and, 210–14
oral rehydration salts (ORS), messages      Proposition 13 (Calif. ballot initiative,
      about, 123–26, 250                          1978), 189
organ theft. See Kidney Heist tale          proverbs
Ott, Mel, 238                                  as compact messages, 61–62
                                               evolution of, 276n. 238
Packard Foundation, 103                        “stickiness” of, 11–12, 16, 17, 19,
Palm Pilot, development process for,              47–48, 59, 244, 249, 253
      48–50, 244                               See also fables
Pavlov, Ivan, 270n. 171                     PSI (nonproﬁt group), 124, 125
PDAs (personal digital assistants),         puzzles, clues to, 93
      49–50                                    See also mysteries
Pegasus mess hall, 185–87, 191
Pennington, Nancy, 272–73 n. 206            racial prejudice experiment, 111–13,
People (magazine), inspiring stories in,          251, 254
      226                                   radios. See transistor radios
Philip Morris (tobacco company),            Rashomon (ﬁlm), 171–72
      169–70                                Reagan-Carter debate (1980), 17,
phobias, treatment of, 212                        158
pitches, high-concept, 57–60                Redelmeier, Donald, 36
planning process, value of, 26              relativity, semantic stretch of term,
plots. See stories                                171–72, 175
pneumopericardium, emergency                Robertson, Spencer, 268n. 136
      treatment of, 204–6                   Rohner Textil company, 153–55
“pocketable radio.” See transistor radios   Rokia, 166, 182
Pokémon (game), 84, 85                      role-playing exercises, 202
politics, voter motivation and, 188–90,     Rolland, Sue Ginder, 113
      261n. 29                              romance stories, 229
                                      INDEX                                    289

Rubin, David, 110, 262n. 54, 265n.        simplicity
    100                                      deﬁnition of, 27–28, 46, 48
rumors                                       as “stickiness” principle, 16, 25–62,
  ﬂeash-eating bacteria on bananas,             222, 237, 240, 253, 272 n. 206
    132–34                                   See also analogies; complexity; core
  Halloween candy, 13–15                        message; proverbs; schemas
  See also urban legends                  simulations
                                             as exercises in empathy, 202
“Saddleback Sam,” 128–29, 255                as problem-solving tools, 210–14
Sadoski, Mark, 265n. 100, 269–70n.           as reactions to stories, 18, 206,
      168                                       208–14, 222, 237, 256, 272–73n.
Safexpress (shipping company),                  206, 273 n. 209, 273–74 n. 210
      151–52                                 as skill-building exercises, 213
Saint-Exupéry, Antoine de, 28             Sinatra Test, 151, 152, 153, 155, 164,
Saturn, rings of, 80–81, 82, 87, 248,           249, 255
      254                                 smoking
Savage, L. J., 34–35                         motivation for quitting, 18, 255–56
Save the Children, fundraising appeals       TV ad campaigns against, 135–36,
      for, 165–67, 171, 177, 182                169–71
Scanlon, Chip, 261n. 31                   Snapple (fruit drink company), KKK
schemas                                         rumors and, 157, 226
   in ad campaigns, 198                   soccer team analogy, as statistics
   human-scale principle and, 145–46            context, 145–46
   movie pitches as, 57–60                Sony corporation, 93–95, 97, 116,
   psychological research on, 262–63n.          123
      54                                  sound bites, 46–47, 48
   as teaching aids, 54–57, 76, 105       “sour grapes,” 98–99
   violations of, 67, 71–72, 73–76,       Sources of Power (Klein), 205–6
      77–78, 79, 82, 88, 194–95           Southwest Airlines, 28–30, 56–57, 72,
   See also analogies                           263 n. 63
Schon, Donald, 60                         Soviet Union, in space race, 95–96
Scott, Mike, 197                          speech-making, style vs. “stickiness” in,
self interest, appeals to, 177–91, 199,         9–10, 242–50, 257
      203, 249, 256                          See also communication
   See also identity; WIIFY               Speed (ﬁlm), 58–59
“semantic stretch,” 171–77, 270 n. 173    sports, TV coverage of, 90–92
sequencing, in communications, 93         sportsmanship, campaign to revive,
Shackleton, Ernest, 230                         174–76
Shaﬁr, Eldar, 35–36                       spotting, as method of ﬁnding sticky
shark attacks, statistics on, 148–50            ideas, 15–16, 224, 230–31, 240–42
Shedler, Jonathan, 138                    Springboard, The (Denning), 233–34,
Sherman, Dean, 194–95                           275 n. 231
shop talk, value of, 206–8                springboard stories, 233–35, 249, 257
Silverman, Art, 6–7, 9–10, 146, 251       Springer, Carol, 107
290                                     INDEX

Stanford University                          Subway (sandwich shop chain)
   arts organization workshop and,             advertising campaigns for, 15–16,
      139–40                                      218–24, 231, 242, 251, 256
   “Making Ideas Stick” class at, 12,          “sandwich artists” at, 61
      102, 242–44, 245–46, 257               SUCCESs checklist, 18–19, 21, 28, 30,
   psychological research at, 11–12,              222–23, 237, 246–47, 251, 253
      19–20, 274–75n. 226                      See also concreteness; credibility;
statistics                                        emotions; simplicity; stories;
   analytical responses to, 167                   unexpectedness
   as “internal credibility” sources,        sun exposure, clinic, 38–41
      141–47, 149–50, 153, 155, 156,         Super Bowl 2000 advertising spot,
      163, 164                                    69–70
   vs. stories in memory, 242–43             “sure-thing principle,” 34–36
   See also details; Sinatra Test            Suri, Jane Fulton, 202
“stickiness”                                 surprise. See unexpectedness
   basic principles of, 12, 14–19, 20, 24,   “surprise brow,” 68
      251–57                                 Sweeney, Mike, 100–1, 103
   deﬁnition of, 8                           Switzerland, textile manufacture in,
   need for, 8–9                                  153–55
   origin of term, 13                        Syrek, Dan, 195–97, 198–99
   psychological barriers to, 19–21, 72
   research on, 11–12, 13, 15, 22–24,        tappers-listeners experiment, 19–20,
      268n. 138                                    115, 201, 237
   spectrum of, 4–5, 8                          See also Curse of Knowledge
   spotting vs. creating ideas with,         teaching
      224–26, 230–31, 240–42                    buzzwords in, 99
   See also SUCCESs checklist                   case study method in, 107–9
Stone Yamashita Partners, 116–18                strategies for, 10–11, 75–76, 80–82,
stories                                            92, 104–6, 168, 215–17, 224
   as inspiration, 18, 206, 218–24,             student self-interest and, 179–80
      225–37, 256–57, 274–75 n. 226             See also racial prejudice experiment;
   mental simulations and, 18, 206,                simulations
      208–14, 222, 237, 256, 272–73n.        television. See advertisements; cable
      206, 273n. 209, 273–74 n. 210                TV; sports, TV coverage of
   plot templates for, 225–31                Telling Others. See communication
   screenwriting and, 83–84, 85              Tempe (Ariz.), cable TV promotion in,
   spotting vs. creating, 230–31, 237              180–82
   as springboards for problem-solving,      testable credentials. See credentials,
      233–35, 257                                  testable
“stickiness” of, 18, 204–237, 243,           Texas, antilitter campaign in, 195–99,
      248–49, 256–57                               249, 256
   as teaching tools, 204–6, 208, 214,       textbooks, design of, 264n. 80
      215–17                                 textile manufacturing, non-toxic
Studzinski, Melissa, 126–28                        chemicals for, 153–55
                                      INDEX                                      291

“They Laughed When I . . . ,” 177–78          boyfriend’s death, 137–38
   See also Caples, John                      See also rumors
“Think. Don’t Smoke.” (ad campaign),
     170–71                               Vassalo, Trae, 49–50
Thinkwell (publishing company), 10        Velcro theory of memory, 109–11, 214,
Thompson, Jim, 158–59, 174–77,                 254
     268–69n. 158, 270 n. 175             viruses, diseases caused by, 132
Tipping Point, The (Gladwell), 13         visualization
Titanic (ﬁlm), 229, 234                      cable TV experiment, 180–82
Tolstoy, Lev N., 23                          process vs. outcome, 210–12
Toyota corporation, 201                      experiments on, 212–13
Trading Places (ﬁlm), 82–83
transistor radios, as Sony concept,       Warren, Rick, 128, 129, 267 n. 128
     93–95, 96, 97, 116, 123              Warren, Robin, 130–32
Truth campaign (antismoking ads),         Washington, D.C., arts organization
     169–71                                    workshop in, 139–40
Turning Points, in movie scripts, 83–84   Weissman, Jerry, 179
Tversky, Amos, 35–36                      Wendy’s (fast-food chain), commercials
                                               for, 155–57
ulcers, bacterial causes of, 130–32,      “Where’s the beef?” 155–57
     163–64, 250, 255                     White, Randy, 197
Ullrich, Jan, 175                         white things exercise, 119–20
unexpectedness                            Whittlesea, Bruce, 70
  in advertisements, 66–67, 69–70         Whys, Five, 201
  emotional reactions to, 68–69,          WIIFY (“what’s in it for you”), 179–80,
     70–71, 96, 263n. 68                       189, 203, 256
  as “stickiness” principle, 16, 63–97,   Williams, Lisa, 70
     125, 129, 149–50, 194, 215, 217,     Winfrey, Oprah, 148, 221
     222, 237, 247–48, 254                “wolves” advertisement, 69–70, 71
  See also attention, ways to com-        Wood, Karen, 63–65
     mand; curiosity                      World Bank, 231–33, 235, 249, 257
“unique,” semantic stretch of term,       World War II, slogans from, 22, 67
     173–74
United States Department of Agricul-      Xerox repair story, 206–8, 214
     ture (USDA), 6–7
Unmasking the Face (Ekman), 68            Yamashita, Keith, 116–17
urban legends, 11, 225–26, 267 n. 133,
     268n. 138                            Zambia, health care efforts in, 232,
  kidney theft ring, 3–4                     233, 235, 257
        about the authors

Chip Heath is a professor of organizational
behavior in the Graduate School of Business
at Stanford University. He lives in Los Gatos,
California.

Dan Heath is a consultant at Duke Corpo-
rate Education. A former researcher at Har-
vard Business School, he is a co-founder of
Thinkwell, an innovative new-media text-
book company. He lives in Raleigh, North
Carolina.
           about the type

This book was set in Electra, a typeface de-
signed for Linotype by W. A. Dwiggins, the
renowned type designer (1880–1956). Elec-
tra is a ﬂuid typeface, avoiding the contrasts
of thick and thin strokes that are prevalent in
most modern typefaces.
