Purple Cow
   Transform
  Your Business
    By Being
   Remarkable

 Seth Godin

 visit Penguin at:
 www.penguin.com

    e penguin
                          about the author

Seth Godin is the author of four worldwide bestsellers including
Permission Marketing, Unleashing the Ideavirus and Survival is Not
Enough. He is a renowned public speaker and is contributing editor at
Fast Company magazine.You can find him at www.sethgodin.com
This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents are either the product of the author’s
 imagination or are used fictitiously, and any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, business
                        establishments, events or locales is entirely coincidental.

                                              Purple Cow

                       Portfolio Book / published by arrangement with the author

                                          All rights reserved.
                                Copyright © 2002 by Do You Zoom, Inc.
                        This book may not be reproduced in whole or part, by
                        mimeograph or any other means, without permission.
  Making or distributing electronic copies of this book constitutes copyright infringement and could
                          subject the infringer to criminal and civil liability.
                                       For information address:
                   The Berkley Publishing Group, a division of Penguin Putnam Inc.,
                          375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014.

                       The Penguin Putnam Inc. World Wide Web site address is
                                  http://www.penguinputnam.com

                                         ISBN: 0-7865-4431-7

                                         PORTFOLIO BOOK®
                      Portfolio Books first published by Penguin Publishing Group,
                                   a member of Penguin Putnam Inc.,
                            375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014.
          Portfolio and the "Portfolio" design are trademarks belonging to Penguin Putnam Inc.

                                   Electronic edition: February 2004
In Memory of Lionel Poilane,
    Remarkable in Every Way.
           
Contents

NOT ENOUGH Ps                            1
THE NEW P                                2
BOLDFACED WORDS AND GUTSY ASSERTIONS     3
BEFORE, DURING, AND AFTER                4
THE GREATEST THING SINCE SLICED BREAD    5
DID YOU NOTICE THE REVOLUTION?           5
WHY YOU NEED THE PURPLE COW              8
THE DEATH OF THE
  TV-INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX                 13
BEFORE AND AFTER                        17
CONSIDER THE BEETLE                     18
WHAT WORKS?                             20
WHY THE WALL STREET JOURNAL ANNOYS
  ME SO MUCH                            21
AWARENESS IS NOT THE POINT              23
THE WILL AND THE WAY                    24
CASE STUDY: GOING UP?                   25
CASE STUDY: WHAT SHOULD TIDE DO?        27
GETTING IN                              28
IDEAS THAT SPREAD, WIN                  31
THE BIG MISUNDERSTANDING                33
WHO’S LISTENING?                        35

                                             vii
                       Contents

   CHEATING                                   38
   WHO CARES?                                 39
   NOT ALL CUSTOMERS ARE THE SAME             41
   THE LAW OF LARGE NUMBERS                   42
   CASE STUDY: CHIP CONLEY                    44
   THE PROBLEM WITH THE COW                   45
   FOLLOW THE LEADER                          51
   CASE STUDY: THE AERON CHAIR                53
   PROJECTIONS, PROFITS, AND THE PURPLE COW   55
   CASE STUDY: THE BEST BAKER IN THE WORLD    58
   MASS MARKETERS HATE TO MEASURE             59
   CASE STUDY: LOGITECH                       60
   WHO WINS IN THE WORLD OF THE COW           61
   CASE STUDY: A NEW KIND OF KIWI             62
   THE BENEFITS OF BEING THE COW              63
   CASE STUDY: THE ITALIAN BUTCHER            65
   WALL STREET AND THE COW                    66
   THE OPPOSITE OF “REMARKABLE”               67
   THE PEARL IN THE BOTTLE                    68
   THE PARODY PARADOX                         70
   SEVENTY-TWO PEARL JAM ALBUMS               72
   CASE STUDY: CURAD                          74
   SIT THERE, DON’T JUST DO SOMETHING         75
   CASE STUDY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE   77

viii
                     Contents

IN SEARCH OF OTAKU                      79
CASE STUDY: HOW DUTCH BOY
  STIRRED UP THE PAINT BUSINESS         81
CASE STUDY: KRISPY KREME                83
THE PROCESS AND THE PLAN                85
THE POWER OF A SLOGAN                   87
CASE STUDY: THE HÄAGEN-DAZS
  IN BRONXVILLE                         89
SELL WHAT PEOPLE ARE BUYING
  (AND TALKING ABOUT!)                  90
THE PROBLEM WITH COMPROMISE             92
CASE STUDY: MOTOROLA AND NOKIA          93
THE MAGIC CYCLE OF THE COW              94
WHAT IT MEANS TO BE A MARKETER TODAY    96
MARKETERS NO LONGER:
  NOW WE’RE DESIGNERS                   98
WHAT DOES HOWARD KNOW?                  99
DO YOU HAVE TO BE OUTRAGEOUS
  TO BE REMARKABLE?                    102
CASE STUDY: MCDONALD’S FRANCE          103
BUT WHAT ABOUT THE FACTORY?            104
THE PROBLEM WITH CHEAP                 106
CASE STUDY: WHAT SHOULD
  HALLMARK.COM DO?                     108

                                             ix
                           Contents

    WHEN THE COW LOOKS FOR A JOB         110
    CASE STUDY: TRACEY THE PUBLICIST     112
    CASE STUDY: ROBYN WATERS GETS IT     113
    CASE STUDY: SO POPULAR, NO ONE
      GOES THERE ANYMORE                 114
    IS IT ABOUT PASSION?                 117
    TRUE FACTS                           119
    BRAINSTORMS                          122
    SALT IS NOT BORING—EIGHT MORE WAYS
      TO BRING THE COW TO WORK           136
    BRAND AND COMPANY INDEX              138
    WHAT WOULD ORWELL SAY?               142
    ABOUT THE AUTHOR                     143
    MORE INFORMATION                     144
    DRINK A PURPLE COW—FOR FREE!         145

x
                “Tastes like chicken”
                isn’t a compliment.
                      
                 “Nobody laughs at
                old jokes any more.”
                    Max Godin

                      
      You are a post-consumption consumer.
          You have everything you need,
          and most everything you want.
                   Except time.
                      
    “Marketing is too important to be left to the
             marketing department.”
                   David Packard

                      
“Everything that can be invented has been invented.”
             Charles H. Duell, 1899,
           U.S. Commissioner of Patents
Not Enough Ps
Marketers for years have talked about the five Ps of mar-
keting. (There are more than five of them, but everyone
has their favorite five.) Some of them include:
   • Product
   • Pricing
   • Promotion
   • Positioning
   • Publicity
   • Packaging
   • Pass-along
   • Permission
   This is the marketing checklist: a quick way to make sure
you’ve done your job, a way to describe how you’re going
to go about getting people to buy what the factory just
made. If the elements are out of whack with each other
(for example, puréed meals that you market to senior cit-
izens but taste like baby food), then the marketing message
is blurred and ultimately ineffective.

                                                           1
                        Seth Godin

   Marketing isn’t guaranteed to work, but the way things
used to be, if you got all your Ps right, you were more like-
ly than not to succeed.
   Something disturbing has happened, though. The Ps
just aren’t enough. This is a book about a new P, a P that is
suddenly exceptionally important.

The New P
The new P is “Purple Cow.”
   When my family and I were driving through France a few
years ago, we were enchanted by the hundreds of storybook
cows grazing on picturesque pastures right next to the
highway. For dozens of kilometers, we all gazed out the
window, marveling about how beautiful everything was.
   Then, within twenty minutes, we started ignoring the
cows. The new cows were just like the old cows, and what
once was amazing was now common. Worse than common.
It was boring.
   Cows, after you’ve seen them for a while, are boring.
They may be perfect cows, attractive cows, cows with great
personalities, cows lit by beautiful light, but they’re still
boring.
   A Purple Cow, though. Now that would be interesting.
(For a while.)
   The essence of the Purple Cow is that it must be
remarkable. In fact, if “remarkable” started with a P, I
could probably dispense with the cow subterfuge, but what
can you do?
   This book is about the why, the what, and the how of
remarkable.

2
                       Purple Cow

Boldfaced Words and Gutsy Assertions
Something remarkable is worth talking about. Worth
noticing. Exceptional. New. Interesting. It’s a Purple
Cow. Boring stuff is invisible. It’s a brown cow.
   Remarkable marketing is the art of building things
worth noticing right into your product or service. Not
slapping on marketing as a last-minute add-on, but
understanding that if your offering itself isn’t remarkable,
it’s invisible.
   The TV-industrial complex was the symbiotic relation-
ship between consumer demand, TV advertising, and
ever-growing companies that were built around invest-
ments in ever-increasing marketing expenditures.
   The post-consumption consumer is out of things to
buy. We have what we need, we want very little, and we’re
too busy to spend a lot of time researching something
you’ve worked hard to create for us.
   The marketing department takes a nearly finished
product or service and spends money to communicate its
special benefits to a target audience. This approach no
longer works.
   I believe we’ve now reached the point where we can no
longer market directly to the masses. We’ve created a world
where most products are invisible. Over the past two
decades, smart business writers have pointed out that the
dynamic of marketing is changing. Marketers have read
and talked about those ideas, and even used some of them,
but have maintained the essence of their old marketing
strategies. The traditional approaches are now obsolete,
though. One hundred years of marketing thought are
gone. Alternative approaches aren’t a novelty–they are all
we’ve got left.

                                                           3
                        Seth Godin

  This is a book about why you need to put a Purple Cow
into everything you build, why TV and mass media are no
longer your secret weapons, and why the profession of
marketing has been changed forever.
  Stop advertising and start innovating.

Before, During, and After
Before Advertising, there was word of mouth. Products and
services that could solve a problem got talked about and
eventually got purchased.
   The best vegetable seller at the market had a reputation,
and her booth was always crowded.
   During Advertising, the combination of increasing prosper-
ity, seemingly endless consumer desire, and the power of
television and mass media led to a magic formula: If you
advertised directly to the consumer (every consumer),
sales would go up.
   A partnership with the right ad agency and the right
banker meant you could drive a company to be almost as
big as you could imagine.
   After Advertising, we’re almost back where we started. But
instead of products succeeding by slow and awkward word
of mouth, the power of our new networks allows remark-
able ideas to diffuse through segments of the population at
rocket speed.
   As marketers, we know the old stuff isn’t working. And
we know why: because as consumers, we’re too busy to pay
attention to advertising, but we’re desperate to find good
stuff that solves our problems.

4
                        Purple Cow

The Greatest Thing Since Sliced Bread
In 1912, Otto Frederick Rohwedder invented sliced bread.
What a great idea: a simple machine that could take a loaf
of bread and...slice it. The machine was a complete fail-
ure. This was the beginning of the advertising age, and
that meant that a good product with lousy marketing had
very little chance of success.
   It wasn’t until about twenty years later – when a new brand
called Wonder started marketing sliced bread – that the
invention caught on. It was the packaging and the adver-
tising (“builds strong bodies twelve ways”) that worked,
not the sheer convenience and innovation of pre-slicing
bread.

Did You Notice the Revolution?
Over the past twenty years, a quiet revolution has changed
the way some people think about marketing.
   Tom Peters took the first whack with The Pursuit of Wow, a
visionary book that described why the only products with a
future were those created by passionate people. Too often,
big companies are scared companies, and they work to
minimize any variation –including the good stuff that
happens when people who care create something special.
   Peppers and Rogers, in The One to One Future, took a sim-
ple truth–that it’s cheaper to keep an old customer than it
is to get a new one – and articulated the entire field of cus-
tomer relationship management. They showed that there
are only four kinds of people (prospects, customers, loyal
customers, and former customers) and that loyal cus-
tomers are often happy to spend more money with you.

                                                             5
                                Seth Godin

  In Crossing the Chasm, Geoff Moore outlined how new
products and new ideas move through a population. They
follow a curve, beginning with innovators and early
adopters, growing into the majority, and eventually reach-
ing the laggards. While Moore focused on technology
products, his insights about the curve apply to just about
every product or service offered to any audience.

    Moore’s idea diffusion curve shows how a successful business inno-
    vation moves – from left to right – and affects ever more consumers until it
    finally reaches everyone. The x-axis, along the bottom, shows the different
    groups an idea encounters over time, while the y-axis shows how many peo-
    ple are in each group.

  In The Tipping Point, Malcolm Gladwell clearly articulated
how ideas spread through populations, from one person
to another. In Unleashing the Ideavirus, I pushed this idea even
further, describing how the most effective business ideas
are the ones that spread.
  And finally, in Permission Marketing, I outlined the ever-
growing attention deficit that marketers face. I also dis-
cussed how companies win when they treat the attention of

6
                               Purple Cow

their prospects as an asset, not as a resource to be strip-
mined and then abandoned.
  At many companies, most of these proven ideas have
been treated as novelties. My friend Nancy is the head of
“new media” at one of the largest packaged-goods compa-
nies in the world. Guess what? She’s in charge (she’s a
department of one) of all of these new ideas. “New media”
has become a synonym for “no budget.”
  Instead of accepting that the old ways are fading away
(fast), most companies with a product to market are treat-
ing these proven new techniques as interesting fads – worth
another look but not worth using as the center of their
strategy.

  The squeeze play. Marketers can’t get the word out because jaded consumers
  refuse to share their attention. Customers rely on their tried-and-true sup-
  pliers or on their network of smart friends instead of studying the ads on TV.

                                                                                   7
                        Seth Godin

Why You Need the Purple Cow
Forty years ago, Ron Simek, owner of the Tombstone Tap (a
bar named for the cemetery next door), decided to offer a
frozen version of his pizza to his customers. It caught on,
and before long, Tombstone Pizza was dominating your
grocer’s freezer. Kraft Foods bought the brand in 1986,
advertised it like crazy, and made billions. This was a great
American success story – invent a product everyone wants,
advertise it to the masses, and make a lot of money.
  This strategy didn’t just work for pizza. It worked for
almost everything in your house, including aspirin.
  Imagine how much fun it must have been to be the first
person to market aspirin. Here was a product that just
about every person on earth needed and wanted. A prod-
uct that was inexpensive, easy to try, and immediately
beneficial.
  Obviously, it was a big hit.
  Today, a quick visit to the drugstore turns up: Advil,
Aleve, Alka-Seltzer Morning Relief, Anacin, Ascriptin,
Aspergum, Bayer, Bayer Children’s, Bayer Regimen,
Bayer Women’s, BC, Bufferin, Cope, Ecotrin, Excedrin
Extra Strength, Goody’s, Motrin, Nuprin, St. Joseph,
Tylenol, and of course, Vanquish. Within each of these
brands, there are variations, sizes, and generics, adding
up to more than a hundred products to choose from.
  Think it’s still easy to be an aspirin marketer?
  If you developed a new kind of pain reliever, even one
that was a bit better than all of those I just listed, what
would you do?
  The obvious answer, if you’ve got money and you believe
in your product, is to spend all you’ve got to buy tons of
national TV and print advertising.

8
                       Purple Cow

   You’ll face a few problems, though. First you need
people who want to buy a pain reliever. While it’s a huge
market, it’s not everyone.
   Once you find people who buy pain relievers, then you
need people who want to buy a new kind. After all, plenty
of people want the “original” kind, the kind they grew up
with. If someone has found a convenient, trusted, effec-
tive pain reliever, he’s probably not out there wasting time
looking for a replacement.
   Finally, you need to find the people willing to listen to
you talk about your new pain reliever. The vast majority of
folks are just too busy and will ignore you, regardless of
how many ads you buy.
   So . . . you just went from an audience of everyone to an
audience of a fraction the size. Not only are these folks
hard to find, but they’re picky as well.
   Being first in the frozen pizza category was a good idea.
Being first in pain relievers was an even better idea. Alas,
they’re both taken.
   Let’s consider yoga books for a second. The problem
with books about how to do yoga is that there are too many
of them.
   A few years ago, when yoga books were scarce, all a pub-
lisher needed to be successful was a good yoga book. If
people had a yoga problem, they’d visit the local book-
store, take a quick look at the three or four books avail-
able, and buy one.
   Today, though, there are more than five hundred books
on yoga. Nobody, no matter how motivated, takes the time
to review all five hundred before buying a book on yoga.
So if you’ve just written one, you’ve got a challenge ahead
of you. Not only is there a huge amount of competition,
but new books on yoga are useless to people who have

                                                          9
                                  Seth Godin

already solved their yoga problem. All those folks who vis-
ited the store a few years ago and made yoga books so pop-
ular are no longer shopping for yoga books!
   Here’s the sad truth about marketing just about any-
thing, whether it’s a product or a service, whether it’s mar-
keted to consumers or to corporations:
    Most people can’t buy your product. Either they
    don’t have the money, they don’t have the time, or
    they don’t want it.
    If an audience doesn’t have the money to buy what
    you’re selling at the price you need to sell it for, you
    don’t have a market.
    If an audience doesn’t have the time to listen to and
    understand your pitch, you’ll be treated as if you
    were invisible.
    And if an audience takes the time to hear your pitch
    but decides they don’t want it . . . well, you’re not
    going to get very far.

     The world has changed. There are far more choices, but there is less and less
     time to sort them out.

10
                        Purple Cow

   This wasn’t true just twenty years ago. Way back then,
consumers had a lot more time and far fewer choices. Our
disposable income had fewer ways to get squandered, so if
a company came up with a really neat innovation (the cell
phone, for example), we’d find a way to pay for it.
   Years ago, our highly productive economy figured out
how to satisfy almost everyone’s needs. Then the game
changed – it was all about satisfying our wants. The market-
ing community taught us (with plenty of TV advertising)
to want more and more, and consumers did their best to
keep up.
   Among the people who might buy your product, most will
never hear about it. There are so many alternatives now
that people can no longer be easily reached by mass media.
Busy consumers ignore unwanted messages, while your
competition (which already has market share to defend) is
willing to overspend to maintain that market share.
   Worse still, people are getting harder to reach by per-
mission media. Just because you have someone’s email
address or phone number doesn’t mean they want to hear
from you! And setting aside the spam issues, even when
people do want to hear from you by phone or mail or
email, they are less and less likely to take action. Your sat-
isfied consumers value these messages less because those
messages no longer solve their current problems.
Companies have gotten better at understanding what sat-
isfies their consumers (and presumably have gotten better
at delivering it), so the bar keeps getting raised as to what
product news you can possibly deliver that will add to that
satisfaction. I wasn’t being totally facetious when I quoted
the former head of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
Almost everything we can realistically imagine that we need
has been invented.
   The last hurdle is that ideavirus networks are hard to

                                                            11
                        Seth Godin

ignite in markets that are fairly satisfied. Because mar-
keters have overwhelmed consumers with too much of
everything, people are less likely to go out of their way to
tell a friend about a product unless they’re fairly opti-
mistic that the friend will be glad to hear about it. When
was the last time someone told you about a new pain
reliever? It’s a boring topic, and your friend is not going
to waste your time. There’s too much noise, and con-
sumers are less eager than ever to add to it.
   This is true not just for consumer products but also for
business and industrial purchases. People who buy for busi-
nesses – whether it’s advertising, parts, service, insurance,
or real estate – just aren’t as needy as they used to be. The
folks who got there before you have a huge inertia advantage.
If you want to grow your market share or launch something
new, you have a significant challenge ahead.
Bottom line?
  • All the obvious targets are gone, so people aren’t likely
    to have easily solved problems.
  • Consumers are hard to reach because they ignore you.
  • Satisfied customers are less likely to tell their friends.
   The old rules don’t work so well any more. Marketing is
dead. Long live marketing.

12
                         Purple Cow

The Death of the
TV-Industrial Complex
Remember the much-maligned “military-industrial com-
plex”? The idea behind it was simple. The government
spent money on weapons. Companies received tax dollars
to build weapons. These companies hired labor. They paid
taxes. The taxes were used to buy more weapons. A virtu-
ous cycle was created: The government got bigger,
employment went up, and it appeared that everyone was a
winner.
   The military-industrial complex was likely responsible
for many of the world’s ills, but it was undeniably a sym-
biotic system. As one half of it grew and prospered, so did
the other.
   Little noticed over the past fifty years was a very differ-
ent symbiotic relationship, one that arguably created far
more wealth (with large side effects) than the military-
industrial complex did. I call it the TV-industrial complex. The
reason we need to worry about it is that it’s dying. We built
a huge economic engine around the idea of this system,
and now it’s going away. The death of the complex is
responsible for much of the turmoil at our companies
today.
   The system was simple. Find a large market niche that’s
growing and not yet dominated. Build a factory. Buy a
lot of TV ads. The ads will lead to retail distribution and
to sales. The sales will keep the factory busy and create
profits.
   Astute businesses then used all the profits to buy more
ads. This led to more distribution and more factories.
Soon the virtuous cycle was in place, and a large, prof-
itable brand was built.

                                                              13
                                  Seth Godin

  As the brand was built, it could command a higher
price, generating larger profits and leaving more money
for more TV ads. Consumers were trained to believe that
“as seen on TV” was proof of product quality, so they
looked for products on television. Non-advertised brands
lost distribution and, ultimately, profits.

     No, it’s not rocket science, but that’s partly why it worked so well. Big mar-
     keters with guts (like Procter & Gamble) were able to dominate entire cat-
     egories by using this simple idea.

  The old system worked for Revlon. Charles Revson was
one of the first big TV advertisers, and advertising grew
his company dramatically. Where did he spend his profits?
On more TV ads.
  In 1962, a smart ad agency hired Jay Ward, creator of
Bullwinkle, and asked him to make a commercial. He
invented Cap’n Crunch and came back with an animated
commercial. Then, and only after that was done, did the
cereal company go about actually making a cereal. Quaker
knew that if they had a commercial, they could run enough
ads to imprint the Cap’n into just about every kid in
America. The cereal was secondary.

14
                         Purple Cow

   You could never afford to introduce Cap’n Crunch
today, regardless of who made your commercial. Kids
won’t listen. Neither will adults.
                       Consumers were kids in the candy
                     store; they had pockets filled with shiny
                     money and they had a real desire to buy
                     stuff. We shopped on TV and we
                     shopped in stores. We were in a hurry
                     and we wanted to fill our houses, our
                     fridges, and our garages.
   A quick look down this list of Procter & Gamble brands
turns up significant proof of the presence of the TV-
industrial complex. Is it possible to read the list without
filling your head with images and jingles?
   Bold, Bounce, Bounty, Cascade, Charmin, Cheer,
Cover Girl, Crest, Dawn, Downy, Folgers, Head &
Shoulders, Herbal Essences, Ivory, Max Factor, Miss
Clairol, Mr. Clean, Nice ’n Easy, Noxzema, NyQuil, Oil
of Olay, Old Spice, Pampers, Pepto-Bismol, Pringles,
Safeguard, Scope, Secret, Tampax, Tide, Vicks, Vidal
Sassoon, and Zest. Throw in particularly annoying prod-
uct pitches like Wisk and Irish Spring, and the point is
obvious. Advertising this stuff used to work. Really well.
   It’s hard for me to overstate the effectiveness of this sys-
tem. Every time you buy a box of breakfast cereal, you’re
seeing the power of TV at work. Due to a commercial you
likely saw thirty years ago, you’re spending an extra dollar
or two on a box of puffed wheat or sugared corn. Over
your lifetime, that’s thousands of dollars in cost premium
for TV ads just for breakfast cereal.
   Of course, it wasn’t just supermarket brands. It was John
Hancock and Merrill Lynch and Prudential. Archer
Daniels Midland, Jeep, and Ronald Reagan as well. Big
brands, big ideas, big impacts on our lives.

                                                             15
                        Seth Godin

  TV commercials are the most effective selling medium
ever devised. A large part of the success of the American
century is due to our companies’ perfecting this medium
and exploiting it to the hilt.
  Our cars, our cigarettes, our clothes, our food – any-
thing that was effectively advertised on TV was changed by
the medium. Not only did marketers use television to
promote their products, but television itself changed the
way products were created and marketed. As a result, all of
the marketing Ps were adjusted to take advantage of the
synergies between our factories and our ability to capture
the attention of the audience.
  Of course, it’s not just TV that’s fading. It’s newspapers
and magazines – any form of media interrupting any form
of consumer activity. Individuals and businesses have
ceased to pay attention.
  The TV-industrial complex lasted a half-century – a long
time. So long that the people who devised the strategies and
ads that worked so well are gone. There’s no one left at
Philip Morris or General Foods who remembers what life
was like before TV created the bureaucratic behemoths.
  And that’s the problem. The TV-industrial complex is
hemorrhaging, and most marketers don’t have a clue what
to do about it. Every day, companies spend millions to re-
create the glory days of the TV-industrial complex. And
every day, they fail.
  The old rule was this:
              Create safe, ordinary products and
             combine them with great marketing.
     The new rule is:
               Create remarkable products that
                  the right people seek out.

16
                               Purple Cow

 We can see the same thing in a simple chart:

  The marketer of yesterday valued the volume of people she could reach. The
  center of the black curve above was the goal. Mass marketing traditionally
  targets the early and late majority because this is the largest group. But in
  many markets, the value of a group isn’t related to its size – a group’s value
  is related to its influence. In this market, for example, the early adopters
  heavily influence the rest of the curve, so persuading them is worth far more
  than wasting ad dollars trying to persuade anyone else.

Before and After
TV-Industrial Age                  Post-TV Age
Average products                   Remarkable products
Advertise to anyone                Advertise to the early adopter
Fear of failure                    Fear of fear
Long cycles                        Short cycles
Small changes                      Big changes

                                                                                   17
                            Seth Godin

Consider the Beetle

              The ad that launched the Beetle to everyone.

The original VW Beetle was not as much of a countercul-
ture car as you may remember. Its sales languished until
some brilliant advertising saved it. On the basis of this
great TV and print campaign, the car was profitable in the
United States for more than fifteen years. The original
Beetle is a poster child for the power of the TV-industri-
al complex.

         In this case, it was the shape, not the ads, that worked.

  The new Beetle, on the other hand, was a success
because of the way it looked and the way it felt to drive.
Good reviews, great word of mouth, and a distinctive
shape that marketed it far and wide – these factors were

18
                       Purple Cow

responsible for the new Beetle’s success. Every time the
very round Beetle drove down a street filled with boxy
SUVs, it was marketing itself.
   After marketing the new Beetle for just three years, VW
is now offering incentives, new designs, and other features
to make the car exciting again. The Purple Cow works,
but, alas, it doesn’t last as long as good old TV domination
did.

         TV-Industrial Complex Products
   Barbie, Prell, Honeywell, United Airlines,
   McDonald’s, Marlboro, Cap’n Crunch, Battling
   Tops, Excedrin, the original Beetle

                 Purple Cow Products
   Starbucks, Magic Cards, Dr. Bronner’s, Linux,
   JetBlue, Outback Steakhouse, Motel 6, MP3,
   Dr. Bukk, Prozac, the new Beetle

                                                          19
                        Seth Godin

What Works?
One way to figure out a great theory is to look at what’s
working in the real world and figure out what the various
successes have in common.
  With marketing, though, it’s puzzling. What could the
Four Seasons and Motel 6 have in common? Other than
the fact that both experienced extraordinary success and
growth in the hotel field, they couldn’t be more different.
Or Wal-Mart and Neiman Marcus, both growing during
the same decade. Or Nokia (changing its hardware every
thirty days) and Nintendo (marketing the same Game Boy
for fifteen years in a row).
  It’s like trying to drive by watching the rear-view mirror.
Sure, those things worked, but do they help us predict
what will work tomorrow?
  What all of these companies have in common is that they
have nothing in common. They are outliers. They’re on
the fringes. Super-fast or super-slow. Very exclusive or
very cheap. Very big or very small.
  The reason it’s so hard to follow the leader is this: The
leader is the leader because he did something remarkable.
And that remarkable thing is now taken – it’s no longer
remarkable when you do it.

20
                        Purple Cow

Why The Wall Street Journal
Annoys Me So Much
The Journal is the poster child for marketing old-think.
Every day, more than a million dollars’ worth of full-page
ads run in this paper – testimony to traditional marketers’
belief that the old ways are still valid.
  A full-page ad in the Journal costs more than a house in
Buffalo, New York. Page after page of dull gray ads, each
pitching a dull product offering from a dull company.
  If you took 90 percent of these ads and swapped the
logos around, no one could tell. Switch one stock photo of
a guy in a black derby hat with another stock photo of an
earnest-looking pan-Asian smiling employee, and no one
could tell.
  One morning, with time to kill at a fine hotel, I inter-
rupted a few people who were reading the Journal over
breakfast. I waited until they had finished the first section,
and then I asked them if they could name just two of the
companies that had run full-page ads. Not one person
could.
  Then I took one of the ads, folded down the bottom
with the logo, and asked the Journal readers which compa-
ny ran the ad. No idea.
  Finally, I asked them the million-dollar question (lit-
erally). Had they ever requested more information about
a product because they’d seen a full-page ad in the
Journal?
  You can probably guess the answer.
  It’s not just TV that’s broken. Just about all the ways
marketers promote themselves (whether they sell to busi-
nesses or to consumers) are becoming less effective.

                                                            21
                        Seth Godin

   Here’s the entire text of a full-page ad from a recent Wall
Street Journal:

     Introducing KPMG Consulting’s New Name
            and Era of Empowerment
     We have done more than just change our name. We
     have chartered a new beginning. An era of empower-
     ment. Which positions BearingPoint-formerly KPMG
     Consulting-ready to assume the lead as the world’s
     most influential and respected business advisor and
     systems integrator. But while we have changed our
     name to BearingPoint, what we have not changed is
     our mindset-the desire to get it done. And get it
     done right. Our goal is to be on everyone’s list. At
     the top, of course. We will accomplish that goal the
     same way we have operated for over 100 years. One on
     One. With practical know-how. With passion.
     Delivering to our present and future clients more
     than just consulting. By helping our clients align
     their business and systems to achieve their desired
     goals. Providing the right information to empower
     their business. Because the right information brings
     knowledge. And knowledge is power. Sharing it is
     empowerment.

  A committee wrote this ad. A committee approved it.
No one will remember it; no one will point it out to a col-
league. Advertising doesn’t have to be this bad. It could be
remarkable. It could help spread the word about a remark-
able product.
  Just because it’s an ad doesn’t mean it can’t be remark-
able. If the goal of the advertiser was to create a measura-
ble impact – to create ads that actually got people to sit up,
take notice, and tell their colleagues – the ads would be a
lot better than they are today. But even that wouldn’t be
enough.

22
                        Purple Cow

Awareness Is Not the Point
The marketing old guard is quick to defend the power of
the TV commercial. They’re delighted to point out the
great success stories of years past, and to happily articulate
why only TV can get the awareness needed to launch a new
product or maintain an existing one.
  Yet Sergio Zyman, the marketing guru who was there for
most of Coca-Cola’s rebirth, points out that two of the
most popular TV commercials of all time –“I’d like to
teach the world to sing” and “Mean Joe Greene” – sold not
one more bottle of Coke. They entertained and got atten-
tion, but they translated into no incremental revenue. He
jokes that the commercial should have been, “I’d like to
teach the world to drink.”
  In Sergio’s words, “Kmart has plenty of awareness. So
what?”

                                                           23
                         Seth Godin

The Will and the Way
I don’t think there’s a shortage of remarkable ideas. I think
your business has plenty of great opportunities to do great
things. Nope, what’s missing isn’t the ideas. It’s the will to
execute them.
   My goal in Purple Cow is to make it clear that it’s safer to
be risky – to fortify your desire to do truly amazing things.
Once you see that the old ways have nowhere to go but
down, it becomes even more imperative to create things
worth talking about.
   One of the best excuses your colleagues will come up
with, though, is that they don’t have the ability to find the
great idea, or if they do, they don’t know how to distin-
guish the great idea from the lousy ideas. This book isn’t
long enough for me to outline all of the spectacularly suc-
cessful brainstorming, ideation, and creativity techniques
that are used by companies around the world. What I can
do, though, is highlight the takeaway ideas, the specific
things you can do tomorrow to start on your way to the
Purple Cow. If you’ve got the will, you’ll find the way.

     The symbol  will mark my top takeaway points,
     spread throughout the book.

24
                        Purple Cow

Case Study: Going Up?
Elevators certainly aren’t a typical consumer product.
They can easily cost more than a million dollars, they gen-
erally get installed when a building is first constructed,
and they’re not much use unless the building is more than
three or four stories tall.
   How, then, does an elevator company compete? Until
recently, selling involved a lot of golf, dinners, and long-
term relationships with key purchasing agents at major
real estate developers. No doubt this continues, but Otis
Elevator Company has radically changed the game by
developing a Purple Cow.
   Walk into the offices of Cap Gemini in Times Square,
and you’re faced with a fascinating solution. The prob-
lem? Every elevator ride is basically a local. The elevator
stops five, ten, fifteen times on the way to your floor. This
is a hassle for you, but it’s a huge, expensive problem for
the building. While your elevator is busy stopping at every
floor, the folks in the lobby are getting more and more
frustrated. The building needs more elevators, but there’s
no money to buy them and nowhere to put them.
   Otis’s insight? When you approach the elevators, you
key in your floor on a centralized control panel. In
return, the panel tells you which elevator will take you to
your floor.
   With this simple pre-sort, Otis has managed to turn
every elevator into an express. Your elevator takes you
immediately to the twelfth floor and races back to the
lobby. This means that buildings can be taller, they need
fewer elevators for a given number of people, the wait is
shorter, and the building can use precious space for peo-
ple, not for elevators. A huge win, implemented at
remarkably low cost.

                                                           25
                        Seth Godin

  Is there a significant real estate developer in the world
who is unaware of this breakthrough? Not likely. And it
doesn’t really matter how many ads or how many lunches
the competition sponsors; Otis now gets the benefit of the
doubt.

      Instead of trying to use your technology and
     expertise to make a better product for your users’
     standard behavior, experiment with inviting the
     users to change their behavior to make the product
     work dramatically better.

26
                        Purple Cow

Case Study: What Should Tide Do?
Tide is arguably the best laundry detergent in history.
Every year, Procter & Gamble invests millions of dollars
and pays a top-flight team of chemists to push the per-
formance of Tide further and further.
  Is that the right thing to do?
  Tide succeeded early on because of a mixture of good
TV ads, very good distribution, and a great product. As
the TV-industrial complex crumbled, though, the ads
mattered less and less. Now, with the ascension of Wal-
Mart, the distribution is more crucial than ever. One
chain of stores accounts for a third of Tide’s sales. Without
Wal-Mart, Tide is dead.
  So what should P&G do? Are they likely to come up with
a true innovation, a remarkable breakthrough that even
casual detergent buyers notice? Or are the incremental
improvements largely a carryover from a different time, a
time when people actually cared about their laundry?
  Orthodox Purple Cow thinking would have P&G take
the profits while they’re still there. Cut research spending,
raise the price as much as is practical, and put the incre-
mental profits into the creation of ever more radical and
interesting new products. If the current R&D isn’t likely to
generate a noteworthy payoff, what’s the point?

    If a product’s future is unlikely to be remark-
   able – if you can’t imagine a future in which people
   are once again fascinated by your product – it’s
   time to realize that the game has changed. Instead
   of investing in a dying product, take profits and
   reinvest them in building something new.

                                                           27
                                  Seth Godin

Getting In

     Only the risk-taking, idea-spreading people on the left part of the curve are
     willing to listen to you.

If we look at the idea diffusion curve, we see that the bulk
of product sales come after a product has been adopted by
the consumers willing to take a chance on something new.
Those early adopters create an environment where the
early and late majority feel safe buying the new item. The
sales that matter don’t come until the left part of the curve
is completely sold.
   The big insight here, though, is that the vast majority of
the curve ignores you. Every time. People in the early and
late majority listen to their experienced peers but are
going to ignore you. It is so tempting to skip the left and
go for the juicy center. But that doesn’t work anymore.
   Regardless of industry, successful new products and
services follow this familiar pattern after they are intro-
duced. First they are purchased by the innovators. These
are the people in a given market who like having some-
thing first. They may not even need the product; they just
want it. Innovators are the folks who sit in the front row at

28
                        Purple Cow

a fashion show in Paris, go to Internet World, and read
edgy trade journals.
   Right next to innovators on Moore’s curve are the early
adopters. (No, they’re not early adapters –that would be just
about the opposite, wouldn’t it?) Early adopters are the
folks who can actually benefit from using a new product
and who are eager to maintain their edge over the rest of
the population by seeking out new products and services.
It might be a new investment device (zero-coupon bonds,
say) or even a new TV show, but in any meaningful mar-
ket, this audience is both sizable and willing to spend
money.
   Trailing after the early adopters are the early and late
majority. These consumers don’t necessarily yearn for a
new product or service that can benefit them, but if
enough of their peers try it and talk about it, these follow-
ers are likely to come along as well.
   It’s essential to realize two things about this big and
profitable group. First, these people are really good at
ignoring you. They have problems that they find far more
significant than the ones your product solves, and they’re
just not willing to invest the time to listen to you.
   Second, they often don’t even listen to the innovators
on the left part of the curve. The early and late majority
want protocols and systems and safety that new products
rarely offer. Countless products never manage to get far
enough along the curve to reach these folks. And if they’re
not even going to listen to their friends, why should they
listen to you?
   Finally, the laggards complete the curve, getting around to
buying a cassette deck when the rest of us have moved on to
CDs. If anything, these people are the adapters. They don’t
use something new until it’s so old that what they used to use
is obsolete, impractical, or not even available any longer.

                                                           29
                           Seth Godin

   No one is going to eagerly adapt to your product. The vast majority
of consumers are happy. Stuck. Sold on what they’ve got.
They’re not looking for a replacement, and they don’t like
adapting to anything new. You don’t have the power to
force them to. The only chance you have is to sell to peo-
ple who like change, who like new stuff, who are actively
looking for what it is you sell. Then you hope that the idea
spreads, moving from the early adopters to the rest of the
curve. After the early adopters embrace what you’re sell-
ing, they are the ones who will sell it to the early majori-
ty – not you. And they will sell it poorly. (Moore talks at
length about moving through the rest of the curve. I high-
ly recommend his book.)
   You must design a product that is remarkable enough to
attract the early adopters – but is flexible enough and
attractive enough that those adopters will have an easy time
spreading the idea to the rest of the curve.
   Digital cameras have been attractively priced for about
five years. At the beginning, only gadget-heads and com-
puter geeks bought them. Digital cameras were a little
tricky to use, and the quality wasn’t great. Over time, the
camera manufacturers obsessed about fixing both prob-
lems and were rewarded with dramatically increased sales.
Digital cameras are well on their way to replacing film
cameras. This shift was not caused by great ad campaigns
from the camera companies. Instead, it is the direct result
of early adopters successfully selling the cameras to their
friends.
   Digital cameras spread because they offer convenience
and price advantages over film cameras. Better still, these
advantages are obvious, easy to talk about, easy to demon-
strate, and just begging to be brought up every time an early
adopter sees a laggard pull out a film camera.
   Being remarkable in the right way helps you in two ways.

30
                              Purple Cow

First, it makes it far easier to attract the left side of the curve.
And second, it makes it easier for these early adopters to per-
suasively sell their peers on the rest of the curve.

Ideas That Spread, Win
A brand (or a new product offering) is nothing more than
an idea. Ideas that spread are more likely to succeed than those that don’t.
I call ideas that spread, ideaviruses.
   Sneezers are the key spreading agents of an ideavirus.
These are the experts who tell all their colleagues or
friends or admirers about a new product or service on
which they are a perceived authority. Sneezers are the ones
who launch and maintain ideaviruses. Innovators or early
adopters may be the first to buy your product, but if
they’re not sneezers as well, they won’t spread your idea.
They’re selfish in their use of a new idea, or they don’t
have the credibility to spread it to others. Either way,
they’re a dead end when it comes to spreading an idea.
   Every market has a few sneezers. They’re often the early
adopters, but not always. Finding and seducing these
sneezers is the essential step in creating an ideavirus.
   So how do you create an idea that spreads? Don’t try to
make a product for everybody, because that is a product
for nobody. The everybody products are all taken. The
sneezers in these huge markets have too many choices and
are too satisfied for it to be likely that you will capture
their interest.
   The way you break through to the mainstream is to tar-
get a niche instead of a huge market. With a niche, you can
segment off a chunk of the mainstream, and create an
ideavirus so focused that it overwhelms that small slice of
the market that really and truly will respond to what you

                                                                         31
                         Seth Godin

sell. The early adopters in this market niche are more
eager to hear what you have to say. The sneezers in this
market niche are more likely to talk about your product.
And best of all, the market is small enough that a few
sneezers can get you to the critical mass you need to create
an ideavirus.
  Then, if you’re good and you’re lucky, that innovation
will diffuse. After it dominates the original niche, it will
migrate to the masses.

       It’s not an accident that some products catch on
     and some don’t. When an ideavirus occurs, it’s
     often because all the viral pieces work together.
     How smooth and easy is it to spread your idea?
     How often will people sneeze it to their friends?
     How tightly knit is the group you’re targeting – do
     they talk much? Do they believe each other? How
     reputable are the people most likely to promote
     your idea? How persistent is it – is it a fad that has
     to spread fast before it dies, or will the idea have
     legs (and thus you can invest in spreading it over
     time)?
     Put all of your new product developments through
     this analysis, and you’ll discover which ones are
     most likely to catch on. Those are the products and
     ideas worth launching.

32
                         Purple Cow

The Big Misunderstanding
The problem with the books I mentioned earlier – Crossing
the Chasm and The Tipping Point and Unleashing the Ideavirus – is
that many marketers got exactly the wrong idea.
   Marketers who read these books often conclude that
these ideas are gimmicks that work every once in a while,
or that the ideas sound organic and automatic and natu-
ral. An idea becomes an ideavirus. It crosses the chasm. It
tips. All these consumers seem to be busy doing your job,
spreading your idea from one person to another, so you
can sit back and wait for success to happen.
   At the same time, the poor schnooks at Procter &
Gamble and Nike and Colgate-Palmolive are spending $4
billion a year on advertising.
   Guess what? Both groups are wrong. While ideaviruses
are occasionally the result of luck (consider the Macarena,
say, or the Pet Rock), the vast majority of product success
stories are engineered from the first day to be successful.
   Marketing in a post-TV world is no longer about mak-
ing a product attractive or interesting or pretty or funny
after it’s designed and built – it’s about designing the thing
to be virus-worthy in the first place. Products that are
engineered to cross the chasm – with built-in safety nets for
wary consumers – are way more likely to succeed than are
products not engineered that way. Services that are worth
talking about get talked about.
   The hard work and big money you used to spend on fre-
quent purchases of print and TV advertising now move to
repeated engineering expenses and product failures. If
anything, marketing is more time-consuming and expen-
sive than it used to be. You’re just spending the money
earlier in the process (and repeating the process more

                                                              33
                       Seth Godin

often). This is worth highlighting: The Purple Cow is not
a cheap shortcut. It is, however, your best (perhaps only)
strategy for growth.
  The Purple Cow isn’t cheap, but it works. We need to
understand that investing in the Cow is even smarter than
buying a Super Bowl ad.

34
                        Purple Cow

Who’s Listening?
I’m guilty of a little hyperbole. With all the hand wringing
over the death of the TV-industrial complex and the pre-
dictions of the demise of all mass media, it’s easy to jump
to the conclusion that ads don’t work at all – that every
consumer avoids and ignores all of them.
   Of course, this isn’t true. Ads do work – not as well as
they used to, and perhaps not cost-effectively, but they do
attract attention and generate sales. Targeted ads are far
more cost-effective, yet most advertising and marketing
efforts are completely untargeted. They are hurricanes,
whipping through a marketplace horizontally, touching
everyone in the same way, regardless of who they are and
what they want. There’s a huge amount of waste here, so
much that it’s easy to assert that advertising isn’t working.
Yes, sometimes this hurricane allows you to skip the
painstaking work of moving from the left to the right.
Sometimes the entire market needs something, knows
they need it, and are willing to listen. The key word here,
though, is sometimes.
   Sometimes is pretty rare – so rare that it’s wasteful. It’s
wasteful because the vast majority of ads reach people who
are not in the market for what’s being sold, or who aren’t
likely to tell their friends and peers about what they’ve
learned.
   But a very different kind of ad does work. Why? What is
it about some ads and some products that makes them suc-
cessful, while others fail? Why, for example, do the little
text-only ads on Google perform so well while the flashy,
full-page, annoying banners on Yahoo! do so poorly?
   We have to start with another look at the power in the
marketing equation. In the old days, marketers targeted
consumers. Smart ad folks worked hard to make sure their

                                                            35
                        Seth Godin

ad was appropriate for the target market and that the ad
ran in media that would reach that market. Implicit in the
idea of targeting, though, is the conceit that it was up to
the marketers to decide who would pay attention and
when.
   Today, of course, the opposite is true. It’s the consumers
who choose. They choose whether you are listened to or
ignored. How do they decide? Are some consumers more
likely than others to listen? What separates the listeners
from the others?
   The big secret of Google ads is that they are both con-
textually relevant and presented to the type of person
who’s likely to act on them. You see a Google “ad” just
moments after you’ve typed in a search term for that very
item! Compare this to a loud, unwelcome interruption of
a less-focused consumer, and the difference is clear.
   At any given moment, in any given market, some people
are all ears. They want to hear from you. They look
through the Yellow Pages, subscribe to trade magazines,
and visit Web sites looking for more information. Some of
these people will eventually buy; some are just looking.
   So here comes the big idea:

           It is useless to advertise to anyone
       (except interested sneezers with influence).

   You need to do this advertising when these consumers
are actually looking for help, and in a place where they’ll
find you. Of course, advertising to one interested person
is a good idea, but the real win occurs when the person
who’s listening is a sneezer likely to tell her friends and
colleagues.

36
                       Purple Cow

  Obviously, the chances you have to advertise to this
select audience are rare. The rest of the time, you need to
be investing in the Purple Cow. Products, services and
techniques so useful, interesting, outrageous, and note-
worthy that the market will want to listen to what you have
to say. No, in fact, you must develop products, services,
and techniques that the market will actually seek out.

                                                         37
                         Seth Godin

Cheating
 • JetBlue Airways is cheating. Their low-cost structure,
   underused airports, and young, non-union staff give
   them an unfair advantage.
 • Starbucks is cheating. The coffee bar phenomenon was
   invented by them, and now whenever we think coffee,
   we think Starbucks.
 • Vanguard is cheating. Their low-cost index funds make it
   impossible for a full-service broker to compete.
 • Amazon.com is cheating. Their free shipping and huge
   selection give them an unfair advantage over the
   neighborhood store.
 • Google is cheating. They learned from the mistakes of the
   first-generation portals and they don’t carry the bag-
   gage of their peers.
 • Wendy’s is cheating. Their flexibility allows them to intro-
   duce half a dozen salad-based entrees, capturing a
   big chunk of the adult market.
 • Ducati is cheating. Because they don’t have to make motor-
   cycles for the entire market, they can specialize in high-
   profit, amazing bikes, which sell out every year.
 • HBO is cheating. Because they have to program original
   shows only one night a week, HBO can focus and
   invest and cream the networks.

  None of these companies are using the old-fashioned
advertising-based techniques to win. To their entrenched
(but nervous) competitors, these companies appear to be
cheating because they’re not playing by the rules.
  Why aren’t you cheating?

38
                          Purple Cow

Who Cares?
You can’t make people listen. But you can figure out who’s
likely to be listening when you talk, and then invent the
right combination of Ps to overwhelm them with the right-
ness of your offer.
   Even if someone is listening, your offering of “a little bit
cheaper,” “a little bit better,” or “a little bit easier” is just a
waste of time. The influential sneezers, the people with a
problem to solve – they’re open to hearing your story only
if it’s truly remarkable; otherwise, you’re invisible.
   The “Who’s listening?” question drives not just the suc-
cess of individual products, but also the status of entire
markets. Consider classical music for a second.
   The classical music industry is now officially moribund.
The big labels are hurting. Orchestras are seeing record-
ing money dry up. There are virtually no commercially
important new works being written or recorded.
   Why?
   Because no one is listening.
   The influential sneezers already have all the music
they’re ever going to buy. Everything old that was worth
recording has been recorded – and quite well, thank you.
So the sneezers have stopped looking.
   Because the sneezers have stopped looking, all of those
folks farther down the curve, who seek their advice or lis-
ten to the radio stations, are busy buying cut-rate $8 ver-
sions of the classics. There’s no money there for the
record companies and the orchestras. Because listeners
have stopped looking, composers are turning to film
scores or lawn care as a way to make a living. There’s an
attention blockade, and no player in the music business
has enough money to change the dynamic. Music mar-

                                                                39
                        Seth Godin

keters can’t buy enough ads or reach enough sneezers to
spread the word about interesting new music. So the
entire market stops.
   The insight here is not that the music industry ought to
figure out a better way to solve this problem. They don’t
need a better form of advertising. The insight might be
that there isn’t a better way. The Naxos music label (they’re
the guys who sell the $8 CDs) is doing great. Why?
Because they organized the product-marketing in all its
forms – around the idea that sneezers wanted good, cheap
versions of the music they already knew. Naxos was right.
The market stopped listening. Naxos won.
   Sony’s classical label can’t compete because they’re not
organized at the product level or the promotion level to
win at that game. So they whither.
   When faced with a market in which no one is listening,
the smartest plan is usually to leave. Plan B is to have the
insight and guts to go after a series of Purple Cows, to
launch a product/service/promotional offering that some-
how gets (the right) people to listen.

40
                        Purple Cow

Not All Customers Are the Same
Michael Schrage writes about a large bank that discovered
that 10 percent of their customers were using their online
banking service every day, while the remainder were using it
about once a month. At first glance, a consultant would
argue that the bank should stop spending so much on the
service, as it was appealing to only the innovators and
some early adopters. Further digging, however, showed
that this group also accounted for about 70 percent of the
bank’s deposits.
  It’s easy to look at the idea diffusion curve and decide
that the juicy, profitable, wonderful place to be is right in
the center, where all the people are. However, that’s rarely
true. Often, the valuable slices are located to one side or
the other. What this bank might realize is that by focusing
on these innovative customers, the bank may be able to
bring in even more highly profitable risk-seeking cus-
tomers, leaving the slow and declining sector to seek other
(less profitable) banks.

    Differentiate your customers. Find the group
   that’s most profitable. Find the group that’s most
   likely to sneeze. Figure out how to develop/adver-
   tise/reward either group. Ignore the rest. Your ads
   (and your products!) shouldn’t cater to the masses.
   Your ads (and products) should cater to the cus-
   tomers you’d choose if you could choose your cus-
   tomers.

                                                           41
                       Seth Godin

The Law of Large Numbers
The magic of mass media and the Web is all tied up in the
large numbers: 20 million people watching The Sopranos;
100 million watching the Super Bowl; a billion watching
the Oscars; 3 million people using KaZaA at the same
time, all the time; 120 million registered Yahoo! users.
The numbers are compelling.
   What if just one out of a thousand Oscar viewers tried
your product? What if one member of every family in
China sent you a nickel?
   The problem with large numbers is that they’re almost
always accompanied by fractions with huge denominators.
If you reach 100 million people, but only .000001 per-
cent of the audience buys your product, well, you’ve just
sold exactly one unit.
   Years ago, when I first predicted the demise of the ban-
ner ad as we know it, people laughed at me. At the time,
banner ads were selling for a CPM of $100. (CPM is the
cost per thousand ad impressions.) That means you’d pay
$100 for a thousand banners.
   What advertisers who measured (the vast minority) soon
realized was that every time they bought a thousand ban-
ners, they got exactly zero clicks. The banners had a hit
rate of less than .000001 percent. The law of large num-
bers was at work.
   Today, you can buy banner ads for less than a dollar a
thousand. A 99 percent drop. I did a deal with one site in
which I bought 300 million banner ads for a total cost of
$600. The funny thing is that I lost money on the deal.
Those 300 million banner ads (that’s more than one ban-
ner impression for every single person in the United States)
ended up selling less than $500 worth of merchandise.

42
                         Purple Cow

   As consumers get better and better at ignoring mass
media, mass media stops working. Sure, there are always
gimmicks that work (animated online pages or product tie-
ins with reality TV shows come to mind), but the vast major-
ity of ordinary advertising is victim to this unrepealable law.
   SoundScan is a neat company with a fascinating product.
Working with retailers and record companies, SoundScan
knows exactly how many copies of every released album are
sold, every week, in the entire country.
   What’s surprising is how horribly so many records do. In
2002, the New York Times reported that of the more than
6,000 albums distributed by the major labels, only 112
albums sold more than 500,000 copies last year. Many,
many titles don’t sell even one copy some weeks. What does
it take to find a stranger, reach that stranger, teach that
stranger, and then get that stranger to walk into a store and
buy what you’re selling? It’s too hard.
   In almost every market measured, the “leading brand” has
a huge advantage over the others. Whether it’s word proces-
sors, fashion magazines, Web sites, or hairdressers, a lot of
benefits go to the brands that win. Often a lesser brand has
no chance at all. There may be a lot of consumers out there,
but they’re busy consumers, and it’s just easier to go with the
winner. (Of course, this is true only until the “winner” stops
being interesting – and then, whether it’s cars, beer, or mag-
azines, a new leader emerges.)

                                                            43
                         Seth Godin

Case Study: Chip Conley
My friend and colleague Chip Conley runs more than a
dozen hotels in San Francisco. His first hotel, the Phoenix,
is in one of the worst neighborhoods downtown.
   Chip got the hotel (it’s really a motel) for next to noth-
ing. He knew that it wasn’t a hotel for everybody. In fact,
no matter what he did to the Phoenix, hardly anyone
would choose to stay there.
   Which is fine. Because “hardly anyone” can be quite
enough if you’ve got a hotel with just a few dozen rooms.
Chip redesigned the place. He painted it funky colors. Put
hip style magazines in all the rooms. Had a cutting-edge
artist paint the inside of the pool, and invited up-and-
coming rock-and-roll stars to stay at the place.
   Within months, the plan worked. By intentionally
ignoring the mass market, Chip created something
remarkable: a rock-and-roll motel in the center of San
Francisco. People looking for it found it.

      Make a list of competitors who are not trying to be
     everything to everyone. Are they outperforming
     you? If you could pick one underserved niche to tar-
     get (and to dominate), what would it be? Why not
     launch a product to compete with your own – a prod-
     uct that does nothing but appeal to this market?

44
                        Purple Cow

The Problem with the Cow
. . . is actually the problem with fear.
   If being a Purple Cow is such an easy, effective way to
break through the clutter, why doesn’t everyone do it? Why
is it so hard to be Purple?
   Some folks would like you to believe that there are too
few great ideas or that their product or their industry or
their company can’t support a great idea. This, of course,
is nonsense.
   The Cow is so rare because people are afraid.
   If you’re remarkable, it’s likely that some people won’t
like you. That’s part of the definition of remarkable.
Nobody gets unanimous praise – ever. The best the timid
can hope for is to be unnoticed. Criticism comes to those
who stand out.
   Where did you learn how to fail? If you’re like most
Americans, you learned in first grade. That’s when you
started figuring out that the safe thing to do was to fit in.
The safe thing to do was to color inside the lines, don’t ask
too many questions in class, and whatever you do, be sure
your homework assignment fits on the supplied piece of
card stock.
   We run our schools like factories. We line kids up in
straight rows, put them in batches (called grades), and
work very hard to make sure there are no defective parts.
Nobody standing out, falling behind, running ahead,
making a ruckus.
   Playing it safe. Following the rules. Those seem like the
best ways to avoid failure. And in school, they may very
well be. Alas, these rules set a pattern for most people (like
your boss?), and that pattern is awfully dangerous. These
are the rules that ultimately lead to failure.

                                                           45
                        Seth Godin

  In a crowded marketplace, fitting in is failing. In a busy
marketplace, not standing out is the same as being invisible.
  Jon Spoelstra, in Marketing Outrageously, points out the
catch-22 of the Purple Cow. If times are tough, your peers
and your boss may very well say that you can’t afford to be
remarkable. After all, we have to conserve, to play it safe;
we don’t have the money to make a mistake. In good times,
however, those same people will tell you to relax, take it
easy; we can afford to be conservative, to play it safe.
  The good news is that the prevailing wisdom makes your
job even easier. Since just about everyone else is petrified
of the Cow, you can be remarkable with even less effort. If
successful new products are the ones that stand out, and
most people desire not to stand out, you’re set!
  So it seems that we face two choices: to be invisible,
anonymous, uncriticized, and safe, or to take a chance at
greatness, uniqueness, and the Cow.
  According to the New York Times, a fourteen-block stretch
of Amsterdam Avenue in New York contains about seven-
ty-four restaurants. What’s most noticeable about these
restaurants is how boring they are. Sure, they offer cuisine
from twenty or thirty cultures, and the food is occasionally
quite good, but there are precious few remarkable places
here. The restaurants are just plain dull compared to the few
amazing restaurants in New York.
  Why? Simple. After spending all that money and all that
time opening a restaurant, the entrepreneur is in no
mood to take yet another risk. A restaurant that’s boring
won’t attract much criticism. If it’s just like the others, no
one will go out of their way to bad-mouth it. Ray’s Pizza is
just plain average. You won’t get sick, but you won’t grin
with pleasure, either. It’s just another New York pizza
place. As a result, the owner makes a living, rarely having
to worry about a bad review or offending anyone.

46
                        Purple Cow

  We’ve been raised with a false belief: We mistakenly
believe that criticism leads to failure. From the time we get
to school, we’re taught that being noticed is almost always
bad. It gets us sent to the principal’s office, not to
Harvard.
  Nobody says, “Yeah, I’d like to set myself up for some
serious criticism!” And yet . . . the only way to be remark-
able is to do just that.
  Several decades ago, when Andrew Weil went to Harvard
Medical School, the curriculum was much the same as it is
today. The focus was on being the best doctor you could be,
not on challenging the medical establishment.
  Weil took a different path than his peers did. Today, his
books have sold millions of copies. He gets the satisfaction
of knowing that his writing, speaking, and clinics have
helped hundreds of thousands of people. And he’s really,
really rich. All because he did something that most of his
classmates would view as reckless and risky. The fascinat-
ing thing is that while the vast majority of those doctors are
overworked, tired, and frustrated at the system they
helped create and work every day to maintain, Andrew
Weil is having a blast. Being safe is risky.
  We often respond to our aversion to criticism by hiding,
avoiding the negative feedback, and thus (ironically) guar-
anteeing that we won’t succeed! If the only way to cut
through is to be remarkable, and the only way to avoid
criticism is to be boring and safe, well, that’s quite a
choice, isn’t it?
  You do not equal the project. Criticism of the project is
not criticism of you. The fact that we need to be reminded
of this points to how unprepared we are for the era of the
Cow. It’s people who have projects that are never criticized
who ultimately fail.
  Will you do some things wrong in your career and be

                                                           47
                        Seth Godin

justly criticized for being unprepared, sloppy, or thought-
less? Sure you will. But these errors have nothing at all to
do with the ups and downs you’ll experience as a result of
being associated with the Purple Cow. When you launch a
clunker, the criticism of the failure will be real, but it
won’t be about you – it’ll be about the idea. The greatest
artists, playwrights, car designers, composers, advertising
art directors, authors, and chefs have all had significant
flops – it’s part of what makes their successful work great.
   Cadillac’s new CTS, in my humble opinion, is perhaps
the ugliest car ever produced outside the Soviet bloc.
Cadillac has been roundly criticized in car magazines, at
dealerships, and on countless online bulletin boards.
Guess what? These cars are selling. Fast. It’s a rebirth for
a tired brand, the biggest success Cadillac has had in
decades. What difference does it make that the “official”
critics don’t like the car? The people who are buying it love
it.
   On the list of most profitable movies of 2002, right next
to Spider-Man and Goldmember, is a surprise: My Big Fat Greek
Wedding. Criticized by Hollywood for being too low-key (and
by the independents for not being original or edgy), this $3
million sleeper succeeded for exactly those two reasons. A
cheap, feel-good date movie was just exceptional enough to
stand out – and the market grabbed it.
   Almost forty years ago, Bob Dylan, one of my favorite
Purple Cows, appeared at the Newport Folk Festival. He
was practically burned in effigy. The act of “going electric”
was viewed as treason. He had abandoned the cause, they
said, and they were angry. “They” were also wrong.
   In 2001, billionaire Mike Bloomberg ran for mayor of
New York. He was criticized, shunned, booed, and worst
of all, dismissed as a dilettante. But he won. Go figure.
   After the failure of the Apple Newton (wonderfully sati-

48
                        Purple Cow

rized in Doonesbury as a bizarre technological dead end), the
folks who invented the Palm Pilot had their work cut out for
them. Early models didn’t work. Early co-ventures failed.
They blew a trademark fight and lost their name to a
Japanese pen company. The easy and smart thing to do
would have been to give up and go do good work at some
R&D lab. But the founders persisted, continuing to make
their device single-minded (when conventional wisdom
demanded multi-purpose devices) and cheap (when con-
ventional wisdom demanded expensive high-tech introduc-
tions). The founders were exceptional, and they won.
   Only when Palm tried to play it safe did they start to
stumble. Three years in a row of incremental feature creep
has cost them market share and profit.
   Compare these successes to the Buick. The Buick is a
boring car. It’s been boring for almost fifty years. Few
people aspire to own a Buick. The Buick isn’t easy to crit-
icize, but it’s also not very successful, is it?
   Drugstore.com is another boring company. They have a
boring Web site, selling boring stuff. (When was the last
time someone got excited about Braun launching a new
toothbrush?) Is there much to criticize about the way they
do business? Not really. But there’s no Cow there. As a
result, very few new customers go out of their way to do
business with them.
   So how are you going to predict which ideas are going to
backfire and which are guaranteed to be worth the hard
work they take to launch? The short answer: You can’t.
   Hey, if it was easy to become a rock star, everyone would
do it!
   You can’t know if your Purple Cow is guaranteed to
work. You can’t know if it’s remarkable enough or too
risky. That’s the point. It’s the very unpredictability of the
outcome that makes it work.

                                                           49
                             Seth Godin

  The lesson is simple – boring always leads to failure.*
Boring is always the most risky strategy. Smart business-
people realize this, and they work to minimize (but not
eliminate) the risk from the process. They know that
sometimes it’s not going to work, but they accept the fact
that that’s okay.

*Except, of course, when being boring is, in and of itself, remarkable.

50
                         Purple Cow

Follow the Leader
Why do birds fly in formation? Because the birds that fol-
low the leader have an easier flight. The leader breaks the
wind resistance, and the following birds can fly far more
efficiently. Without the triangle formation, Canadian
geese would never have enough energy to make it to the
end of their long migration.
   A lot of risk-averse businesspeople believe that they can fol-
low a similar strategy. They think they can wait until a leader
demonstrates a breakthrough idea, and then rush to copy it,
enjoying the break in wind resistance from the leader.
   If you watch the flock closely, though, you’ll notice that
the flock doesn’t really fly in formation. Every few minutes,
one of the birds from the back of the flock will break away,
fly to the front, and take over, giving the previous leader a
chance to move to the back and take a break.
   The problem with people who would avoid a remarkable
career is that they never end up as the leader. They decide
to work for a big company, intentionally functioning as an
anonymous drone, staying way back to avoid risk and crit-
icism. If they make a mistake and choose the wrong bird to
follow, they lose. When a big company lays off ten thou-
sand people, most of those people probably don’t deserve
to get fired. They were doing what they were told, staying
within the boundaries, and following instructions. Alas,
they picked the wrong lead bird.
   Even if you find a flock that’s pretty safe, in our turbu-
lent world, it’s harder and harder to stay in formation,
and we often find ourselves scurrying to find a new flock.
The ability to lead is thus even more important because
when your flock fades away, there may be no other flock
handy.

                                                               51
                        Seth Godin

   This is true not just for individual careers, of course.
Companies have the same trouble. They follow an indus-
try leader that stumbles. Or they launch a thousand imi-
tations of their first breakthrough product – never realiz-
ing that the market is drying up.
   For years, the record business has been dominated by a
few major players, and they work hard to follow each
other’s lead. The labels have similar pricing, merchant
policies, contracts, and packaging. Each label avoids crit-
icism by sticking with the pack.
   But when the market changes – when technology reshuf-
fles the deck – the record labels are all in trouble. With no
practice leading, no practice trying the unknown, they’re
trapped, panicked, and in serious trouble. Their trade
organization, the RIAA, is spending millions of dollars
lobbying Congress to get legislation to keep the world just
the way it is. In the long run, of course, they’ll fail. You
can’t keep the world the way it is, even if you buy the influ-
ence of Congress.
   The lesson of the Cow is worth repeating: Safe is risky.

      What tactics does your firm use that involve fol-
     lowing the leader? What if you abandoned them
     and did something very different instead? If you
     acknowledge that you’ll never catch up by being the
     same, make a list of ways you can catch up by being
     different.

52
                       Purple Cow

Case Study: The Aeron Chair
Before Herman Miller, desk chairs were invisible. A desk
chair got spec’ed and acquired by the Purchasing or
Human Resources department gnomes, and unless you
were the CEO, you didn’t get much say in where you sat.
And you might not have even noticed the difference
between one cushy desk chair and another.
   The buyers of desk chairs were searching for a safe and
easy choice. The manufacturers listened carefully to the
buyers and made safe and easy choices. This was a dull
market with dull results.
   When Herman Miller introduced the $750 (gasp)
Aeron chair in 1994, they took a radical risk. They
launched a chair that looked different, worked different-
ly, and cost a bunch. It was a Purple Cow. Everyone who
saw it wanted to sit in it, and everyone who sat in it want-
ed to talk about it. The designers at Herman Miller knew
that the chair was expensive enough that it wasn’t a safe
purchase for the ordinary purchasing agent. They also
knew that it was quite likely that they wouldn’t sell many
chairs at all.
   Herman Miller got it right, though. Sitting in the Aeron
chair sent a message about what you did and who you were,
and buying the chairs for your company sent a message as
well. Soon after the Aeron came out, Seth Goldstein –
founder of SiteSpecific (the first online direct-marketing
ad agency) – took his very first venture-capital check and
went straight out to buy more than a dozen Aeron chairs.
That got him on the front page of the Wall Street Journal.
   This isn’t a case of inventing some gimmick to create an
example of the much fabled but rarely achieved viral mar-
keting. Instead, it’s about putting the marketing invest-
ment into the product instead of into the media. Millions

                                                          53
                      Seth Godin

of Aeron chairs have been sold since its introduction in
1994, and the chair is now in the permanent collection of
the Museum of Modern Art.
  “The best design solves problems, but if you can weld
that to the cool factor, then you have a home run,” says
Mark Schurman of Herman Miller. Another way of saying
that Herman Miller realized that making a safe chair was
the single riskiest thing they could do.

54
                        Purple Cow

Projections, Profits, and
the Purple Cow
Mass marketing demands mass products. And mass prod-
ucts beg for mass marketing.
   This equation leads to a dangerous catch-22, one with
two parts.
Part One: Boring Products. Companies that are built
around mass marketing develop their products according-
ly. These companies round the edges, smooth out the dif-
ferentiating features, and try to make products that are
bland enough to work for the masses. These companies
make spicy food less spicy, and they make insanely great
service a little less great (and a little cheaper). They push
everything – from the price to the performance – to the
center of the market. They listen to the merchandisers at
Kmart and Wal-Mart or the purchasing agents at Johnson
& Johnson and make products that will appeal to every-
body.
   After all, if you’re going to launch a huge ad campaign
by direct mail or in trade magazines or in daily newspapers
or on television, you want your ads to have the maximum
possible appeal. What’s the point of advertising to everyone
a product that doesn’t appeal to everyone? By following this
misguided logic, marketers ensure that their products have
the minimum possible chance of success.
   Remember, those ads reach two kinds of viewers:
   • The highly coveted innovators and adopters who will
     be bored by this mass-marketed product and decide
     to ignore it.
   • The early and late majority who are unlikely to listen
     to an ad for any new product, and are unlikely to
     buy it if they do.

                                                           55
                       Seth Godin

   By targeting the center of the market and designing the
product accordingly, these marketers waste their market-
ing dollars. Exhibit A: The dozens of consumer-focused
dot-com companies who wasted more than a billion (a bil-
lion!) dollars advertising watered-down products to the
mass market. Your grocery store is also a very public grave-
yard for mediocre products designed for the masses.
   As we’ve already seen, the only way an idea reaches the
bulk of the market is to move from left to right. You can
no longer reach everyone at once. And if you don’t grab
the attention and enthusiasm of the sneezers, your prod-
uct withers.
Part Two: Scary Budgets. In order to launch a product for
the masses, you need to spend big. It’s not unusual to
spend a million dollars to launch something local, and
spend a hundred times that to do an effective national
rollout. For most of the three hundred major movies
launched by Hollywood every year, the studios spend more
than $20 million on marketing for each movie.
   The problem with a scary budget is that you have to make
the ads work, and quickly. If you don’t break through the
clutter, capture imagination and attention, get retailers
excited and stocking your product, and get the factory
unloading its inventory, well, it’s over. You’ve wasted your
shot; you don’t get a second chance, and the product is
considered dead.
   The front-loading of the budget does two things to your
product:
   • It means you get very few chances to launch new
     products because each one is so expensive. Thus,
     you won’t make risky bets, and you’ll be even more
     likely to introduce boring, me-too products.

56
                        Purple Cow

    • It doesn’t give you a chance to ride through the idea
      diffusion curve. It takes a while to reach the sneez-
      ers, who take a while to reach the rest of the popu-
      lation. But your front-loaded budget means that by
      the time the bulk of the population hears about what
      you’ve done, you’ve burned out the retailers,
      destroyed your inventory, or, worst of all, driven
      your startup company into bankruptcy.
   Dozens of astonishingly great products were introduced
during the dot-com boom. Alas, most of them never had
a chance to diffuse. For example, a weatherproof package
receptacle that only you and the UPS man knew the com-
bination for. Or a tiny electronic gizmo that told you
which bars, clubs, and restaurants in your town were hot
and what was playing. Or a Web site where you could easi-
ly give feedback to big companies – and get your problems
fixed.
   In each case, a fledgling company spent most of its cap-
ital on mass marketing. Marketing that came too soon and
disappeared before the idea could spread.
   Compare this to the success of just about every movie that
has surprised Hollywood over the past decade. When a Blair
Witch or a Greek Wedding comes along, it doesn’t get launched
with a huge marketing budget. The filmmakers wisely focus
on making a remarkable movie instead. So a few innovators
(the folks who go to see every movie, just about) stumble
onto the film, and the word starts to spread.
   It seems obvious, yet just about every product aimed at a
large audience (consumer and industrial) falls into this trap.

    What would happen if you gave the marketing
   budget for your next three products to the design-
   ers? Could you afford a world-class architect/design-
   er/sculptor/director/author?

                                                            57
                       Seth Godin

Case Study: The Best Baker in the World
Lionel Poilane’s dad was a French baker, and he inherited
the family bakery when he was a young man. Rather than
sitting still and tending to the fires, though, Lionel
became obsessed with remarkable.
   He did extensive research, interviewing more than eight
thousand French bakers about their techniques. He pio-
neered the use of organic flour in France. He refused to
bake baguettes, pointing out that they were fairly tasteless
and very un-French (they’re a fairly recent import from
Vienna). He acquired the largest collection of bread cook-
books in the world –and studied them.
   His sourdough bread is made with just flour, water,
starter, and sea salt, and it’s baked in a wood-fired oven.
Poilane refused to hire bakers – he told me they had too
many bad habits to unlearn – and instead hired young men
who were willing to apprentice with him for years.
   At first, the French establishment rejected his products,
considering them too daring and different. But the over-
whelming quality of the loaves and Poilane’s desire to do it
right finally won them over.
   Virtually every fancy restaurant in Paris now serves
Poilane bread. People come from all over the world to wait
in line in front of his tiny shop on Rue de Cherche Midi
to buy a huge loaf of sourdough bread – or more likely,
several loaves. The company he founded now ships loaves
all over the world, turning handmade bread into a global
product, one worth talking about.
   Last year, Lionel sold more than $10 million worth of
bread.

58
                        Purple Cow

Mass Marketers Hate to Measure
Direct marketers, of course, realize that measurement is
the key to success. Figure out what works, and do it more!
   Mass marketers have always resisted this temptation.
When my old company approached the head of one of the
largest magazine publishers in the world and pitched a
technology that would allow advertisers to track who saw
their ads and responded to them, he was aghast. He real-
ized that this sort of data could kill his business. He knew
that his clients didn’t want the data because then their jobs
would get a lot more complex.
   Measurement means admitting what’s broken so you can
fix it. Mass-media advertising, whether it’s on TV or in
print, is all about emotion and craft, not about fixing mis-
takes. One reason the Internet ad boomlet faded so fast is
that it forced advertisers to measure – and to admit what
was going wrong.
   Well, creators of the Purple Cow must measure as well.
Every product, every interaction, every policy is either
working (persuading sneezers and spreading the word) or
not. Companies that measure will quickly optimize their
offerings and make them more virus-worthy.
   As it becomes easier to monitor informal consumer
networks, the winners will be companies that figure out
what’s working fastest– and do it more (and figure out
what’s not working – and kill it).
   Zara, a fast-growing retailer in Europe, changes its
clothing line every three or four weeks. By carefully watch-
ing what’s working and what’s not, they can evolve their
lineup far faster than the competition can ever hope to.

                                                           59
                          Seth Godin

      What could you measure? What would that cost?
     How fast could you get the results? If you can
     afford it, try it. “If you measure it, it will improve.”

Case Study: Logitech
How did Logitech become the fastest-growing technology
company in America? Their mouses (mice?), trackballs,
and input devices aren’t the best examples of cutting-edge
technology coming out of Silicon Valley, certainly. And
the lack of cutting-edge technology is a key part of their
success.
  Logitech succeeds because management understands
that they are in the fashion business. The guts of their
devices don’t change often –but the functionality and style
change constantly. Management isn’t busy trying to figure
out how to innovate a better chip. They are, on the other
hand, working frantically to create a better user experience.
  For the frequent user, the impact of a cooler, better,
easier-to-use input device is profound – so profound that
many users are happy to proselytize to their peers. More
sneezing of a Purple Cow. Logitech doesn’t crave more
advertising. They crave more remarkable products. That’s
what their customers want to buy.

60
                          Purple Cow

Who Wins in the World of the Cow
It’s fairly obvious who the big losers are – giant brands with
big factories and quarterly targets, organizations with sig-
nificant corporate inertia and low thresholds for per-
ceived risks. Once addicted to the cycle of the TV-indus-
trial complex, these companies have built hierarchies and
systems that make it awfully difficult to be remarkable.
   The obvious winners are the mid-sized and smaller com-
panies looking to increase market share. These are the com-
panies that have nothing to lose, but more important, they
realize that they have a lot to gain by changing the rules of
the game. Of course, there are big companies that get it and
have the guts to take the less risky path, just as there are small
companies that are stuck with their current products and
strategies.
   As I write this, the number-one song in Germany,
France, Italy, Spain, and a dozen other countries in Europe
is about ketchup. The song is called “Ketchup,” and it is by
two sisters you never heard of. The number-two movie in
America is a low-budget animated movie in which talking
vegetables act out Bible stories. Neither thing is the sort of
product you’d expect from a lumbering media behemoth.
   Sam Adams beer was remarkable, and it captured a huge
slice of business from Budweiser. Hard Manufacturing’s
$3,000 Doernbecher crib opened up an entire segment of
the hospital crib market. The electric piano let Yamaha steal
an increasingly larger share of the traditional-piano seg-
ment away from the entrenched market leaders. Vanguard’s
remarkably low-cost mutual funds continue to whale away at
Fidelity’s market dominance. BIC lost tons of market share
to Japanese competitors when they developed pens that were
remarkably fun to write with, just as BIC stole the market
away from fountain pens a generation or two earlier.

                                                                61
                       Seth Godin

Case Study: A New Kind of Kiwi
The last time New Zealand successfully introduced a fruit
to North America (which in itself is a cool postmodern
idea), it was the gooseberry. They renamed it the “kiwi,”
introduced it to yuppies, foodies, and upscale supermar-
kets, and watched it take off.
  Today, diffusing an idea about a new fruit is much more
difficult. How then to launch a new kiwi, one that’s gold-
en with an edible peel?
  Zespri, the only company that knows how to grow the
new kiwi, aimed at a niche – Latino foodies. The new kiwi
has a lot in common with mangoes and papayas but is dif-
ferent enough to be remarkable. By targeting upscale
Latino groceries, Zespri found underserved produce buy-
ers who had both the time and the inclination to try some-
thing that was new and exclusive.
  So, without advertising at all, Zespri gets the fruit in
front of an audience of risk-taking sneezers. If Zespri is
aggressive in doing in-store tasting, they’ve got an excel-
lent chance of working their way through the Latino com-
munity and then eventually crossing over to the rest of the
mass market. Last year, Zespri managed to sell more than
$100 million worth of golden kiwi fruit, but unless you’re
Latino, you’ve probably never even seen it.

62
                        Purple Cow

The Benefits of Being the Cow
So it’s an interesting paradox. As the world gets more tur-
bulent, more and more people seek safety. They want to
eliminate as much risk as they can from their businesses
and their careers.
   And most of the people mistakenly believe that the way
to do that is to play it safe. To hide. So fewer and fewer
people work to create a new Purple Cow.
   At the same time, the marketplace is getting faster and
more fluid. Yes, we’re too busy to pay attention, but a por-
tion of the population is more restless than ever. Some
people are happy to switch their long distance service,
their airline, their accounting firm – whatever it takes to
get an edge. If the bank teller annoys you, well, there’s
another bank right down the street. So while fewer people
attempt to become the Cow, the rewards for being
remarkable continue to increase! At work is the ability of a
small portion of eager experimenters to influence the rest
of us.
   As the ability to be remarkable continues to demonstrate
its awesome value in the marketplace, the rewards that fol-
low the Purple Cow increase.
   Whether you develop a new insurance policy, record a
hit record, or write a best-selling, groundbreaking book,
the money, prestige, power, and satisfaction that follow
are extraordinary. In exchange for taking the risk – the risk
of failure or ridicule or unfulfilled dreams – the creator of
the Purple Cow gets a huge upside when she gets it right.
   Even better, these benefits have a half-life. You don’t
have to be remarkable all the time to enjoy the upside.
Starbucks was remarkable a few years ago. Now they’re
boring. But that first burst of innovation and insight has

                                                          63
                        Seth Godin

allowed them to grow to thousands of stores around the
world. Starbucks is unlikely to keep up their blistering
growth rate unless they find another Cow, but the benefits
that came to them were huge. Compare this growth in
assets to Maxwell House. Ten years ago, all the brand value
in coffee resided with them, not with Starbucks. But
Maxwell House played it safe (they thought), and now they
remain stuck with not much more than they had a decade
ago.
   In just about every industry and just about every career,
the creator of the Purple Cow receives huge benefits. Star
football players get long-term contracts. The authors of a
fluke best-seller like The Nanny Diaries managed to sign a
million-dollar deal for a sequel, even though the new
book can’t possibly be as successful. A hot agency easily
signs up new clients on the basis of their success with their
old clients. Same reason.
   Once you’ve managed to create something truly remark-
able, the challenge is to do two things simultaneously:
  • Milk the Cow for everything it’s worth. Figure out
    how to extend it and profit from it for as long as pos-
    sible.
  • Create an environment where you are likely to invent
    a new Purple Cow in time to replace the first one
    when its benefits inevitably trail off.
   Of course, these are contradictory goals. The creator of
a Purple Cow enjoys the profits, the accolades, and the
feeling of omniscience that comes with a success. None of
those outcomes accompany a failed attempt at a new Cow.
Thus, the tempting thing to do is to coast. Take profits.
Fail to reinvest. Take no chances because those “chances”
seem to be opportunities to blow the very benefits you
worked so hard to earn.
   Palm, Yahoo!, AOL, Marriott, Marvel Comics . . . the

64
                           Purple Cow

list goes on and on. Each company had a breakthrough,
built an empire around it, and then failed to take another
risk.
   It used to be easy to coast for a long time after a few
remarkable successes. Disney coasted for decades. Milton
Berle did, too. It’s too easy to decide to sit out the next
round, rationalizing that you’re spending the time and
energy to build on what you’ve got instead of investing in
the future.

Case Study: The Italian Butcher
There are literally thousands of butchers in Italy, but only
one of them is famous (and only one of them is rich).
Dario Cecchini has been profiled in magazine articles and
guidebooks. His 250-year-old butcher shop in Panzano
almost always has a crowd. People come from all over the
world to visit his shop – to hear him quote Dante and
rhapsodize about the Fiorentina beefsteak. When the
European Economic Union banned the sale of steak with
the bones left in (because of the fear of mad cow disease*),
Dario Cecchini held a mock funeral and buried a steak in
front of his store – complete with casket.
  Is his meat that much better? Probably not. But by turn-
ing the process of buying meat into an intellectual and
political exercise, Dario has figured out more than one way
to make money from a cow – this time, a purple one.

*Alas, Purple Cow disease is not contagious.

                                                          65
                       Seth Godin

Wall Street and the Cow
Current market conditions notwithstanding, what’s the
secret to every entrepreneur’s dream, the successful IPO?
The companies that successfully went public during the
Net boom (and those that will follow when the market
comes back) had one thing in common – they’d created a
Purple Cow and proved it.
  Whether it was insanely popular chat sites or beta ver-
sions of database software that key early adopters raved
about, each company had a story to tell the Street. So
investors bought in.
  Then just about every company forgot the lesson of the
Cow. Instead of taking the money and using it to create a
series of innovations that could lead to the next Cow (at a
higher, bigger level), these companies took profits. The
companies streamlined and mechanized and milked their
Cow. Alas, very few markets are stable enough and fast – or
long-growing enough to allow a public company to thrive
for very long. Their days of 20 percent annual growth are
probably gone forever.

66
                        Purple Cow

The Opposite of “Remarkable”
   is “very good.”
   Ideas that are remarkable are much more likely to spread
than ideas that aren’t. Yet so few brave people make
remarkable stuff. Why? I think it’s because they think that
the opposite of “remarkable” is “bad” or “mediocre” or
“poorly done.” Thus, if they make something very good,
they confuse it with being virus-worthy. Yet this is not a
discussion about quality at all.
   If you travel on an airline and they get you there safely,
you don’t tell anyone. That’s what’s supposed to happen.
What makes it remarkable is if it’s horrible beyond belief
or if the service is so unexpected (they were an hour early!
they comped my ticket because I was cute! they served
flaming crêpes suzette in first class!) that you need to share
it.
   Factories set quality requirements and try to meet them.
That’s boring. Very good is an everyday occurrence and
hardly worth mentioning.

    Are you making very good stuff? How fast can
   you stop?

                                                            67
                         Seth Godin

The Pearl in the Bottle
Remember Prell? All of us boomers certainly can envision
the clear bottle of shampoo filled with green liquid . . .
and the pearl slowly drifting downward. This image was
omnipresent in the advertising for Prell.
   The commercial never made it clear precisely what a
pearl had to do with shampoo or why we wanted the pearl
to move slowly. What is beyond dispute is that TV com-
mercials made this rather ordinary shampoo a significant
success.
   Where do you find a Purple Cow in the cosmetics busi-
ness? After all, almost all shampoos are the same. More
often than not, it’s an extraneous exotic ingredient or
fancy packaging that people notice, not the effectiveness of
the potion.
   Compare the inexorable decline of Prell (the TV commer-
cials stopped working) with the gradual ascent of Dr. Bronner’s.
   Dr. Bronner’s does no advertising at all, yet their prod-
uct continues to grow in sales and market share. If it’s not

68
                       Purple Cow

because of a better product, then why? Because of the
incredible packaging. The packaging is very much part of
the experience of using the product.
   Most people discover this extraordinary product at a
friend’s house. Brushing your teeth in the guest bath-
room, with nothing much better to do than snoop, you
inevitably start reading the thousands of words inscribed
all around the bottle. “Balanced food for mind-body-
spirit is our medicine.”
   Not only is it unique, but the uniqueness is aimed at a
specific audience, one in which the early adopters are
more than happy to proselytize to their friends.
   Dr. Bronner’s is a truly remarkable shampoo as sham-
poos go. It’s worth noticing, worth talking about, and for
many people, worth buying. In a world without (effective)
ads, it has an unfair advantage against anything the big
guys can develop.

   Buy a bottle of Dr. Bronner’s. Now, working
  with your factory and your designers, Bronnify a
  variation of one of your products.

                                                        69
                                Seth Godin

The Parody Paradox
J. Peterman is back. His oblong white catalog—filled with
lengthy descriptions of Mata Hari, duster coats from cow-
boys on the prairie, and irreplaceable white silk scarves–
was solidly entrenched in the zeitgeist a decade ago. The
writing was so over the top that a fictional J. Peterman
even became a character on Seinfeld.

     A tiny ad in The New Yorker launched this duster coat and the idiosyn-
     cratic voice behind the J. Peterman catalog. It was so remarkable that it
     spread, and as it spread, it became ripe for parody.

  Imagine for a second the same thing happening to L.L.
Bean or Lands’ End. Inconceivable. Those catalogs are
safe and steady and boring. The original J. Peterman cat-
alog, on the other hand, was so ridiculous that it was
delightful to parody. We feel the same way about Martha
Stewart’s obsessive calendar in the front of her magazine
or the two “cheeseburgah” guys at that diner in Chicago,
as parodied by John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd.
  In each of these cases, the very uniqueness that led to a
parody results in a huge increase in attention, in sales, and
in profits. If you can show up in a parody, it means you’ve

70
                       Purple Cow

got something unique, something worth poking fun at. It
means there’s a Purple Cow at work. The paradox is this:
The same word of mouth that can make your product a
huge hit can also lead to someone’s snickering at you.
   Most companies are so afraid of offending or appearing
ridiculous that they steer far away from any path that might
lead them to this result. They make boring products
because they don’t want to be interesting. When a com-
mittee gets involved, each well-meaning participant sands
off the rough edges, speaking up for how their con-
stituency might not like the product. The result is some-
thing boring and safe.

    How could you modify your product or service so
   that you’d show up on the next episode of Saturday
   Night Live or in a spoof of your industry’s trade jour-
   nal?

                                                             71
                        Seth Godin

Seventy-two Pearl Jam Albums
The music business is all about interrupting jaundiced
strangers with news about ever more similar acts, all trying
to break into the Top 40. Ninety-seven percent of all
records lose money because this model is fundamentally
broken.
   Of course, in 1962 this was a brilliant strategy. People
were starved for great new music. Retailers wanted more
titles to stock, radio stations wanted more acts, and con-
sumers wanted bigger collections. Advertising (in the
form of radio payola or retail spiffs) was quite effective.
No longer.
   Virtually all breakthrough acts in the music business
now are the result of blind luck (and a little talent). A
band (brand?) captures the interest of a small group of
sneezers, who tell their friends, and suddenly they’ve got a
hit. Rather than accepting this, though, the music indus-
try tries to manufacture hits the old way.
   Except for Pearl Jam. They seem to get it. They broke
through. They worked hard (and got lucky), recorded
some hits, and became headliners. Then, instead of
insisting that they could do it again and again and again,
they rallied their core audience and built a very different
system.
   If you’re a Pearl Jam fan, you know that from 2001
through 2002, the band released seventy-two live albums,
all available on their Web site. They’re not trying to inter-
rupt strangers; they’re selling to the converted. Pearl Jam
knows that once they have permission to talk to someone,
it’s much easier to make a sale. They know that the cost of
selling an album to this audience is relatively minuscule,
and they’ve turned a profit on all seventy-two albums. The
big win on top of this income stream occurs when some of

72
                       Purple Cow

this core audience is so delighted by this bounty of great
products that they take the time to indoctrinate their
friends. Thus, the Pearl Jam universe grows. Big fans
bring in new fans, and old fans stick around because
they’re catered to. There’s very little leakage because the
band keeps the existing customer base satisfied with
remarkable products.

   Do you have the email addresses of the 20 per-
  cent of your customer base that loves what you do?
  If not, start getting them. If you do, what could you
  make for these customers that would be super-spe-
  cial? Visit www.sethgodin.com and you can sign up
  for my list and see what happens.

                                                          73
                       Seth Godin

Case Study: Curad
When Curad wanted to challenge the Band-Aid brand for
the market for adhesive bandages, most people thought
Curad was crazy. Band-Aid was a household institution, a
name so well known it was practically generic. And the
product was terrific. What could Curad hope to accom-
plish?
  Curad developed a Purple Cow – bandages with charac-
ters printed on them.
  Kids, the prime consumers of small bandages, loved
them. So did parents who wanted to make the boo-boos
get better even faster! And of course, when the first kid
with Curads wore them to school, every other kid wanted
them, too.
  It didn’t take very long at all for Curad to grab a chunk
of market share away from the market leader.

      Could you make a collectible version of your
     product?

74
                         Purple Cow

Sit There, Don’t Just Do Something
Marketing departments often feel a need to justify their exis-
tence. If last year’s slogan feels old, they’ll spend a million
dollars to invent and propagate a new one. If retail sales are
down, marketers will hire a consultant to freshen up their
store look.
   All too often, these marketing efforts are the result of a
compromise. Either a budget compromise (“We don’t have
enough money to launch a new product; let’s launch a new
slogan”) or a product compromise (“That will offend our
existing customer base; let’s do something less radical”).
Almost without exception, these compromises are worse than
doing nothing.
   If you do nothing, at least you’re not going to short-circuit
your existing consumer networks by loading them up with a
lot of indefensible junk. When you do nothing, your sneez-
ers can still trumpet the original cool stuff that made you
popular in the first place. The constant “refreshing” of your
line with ever more mediocre messaging and products just
makes it harder for your few remaining fans to spread the
word.
   Ben & Jerry’s avoided temptation for years. If they didn’t
have a super-cool flavor or a great promotional idea, they did
nothing. Yes to free ice cream once a year at every scoop
shop, but no to 5 percent off any pint this week at your local
store. McIntosh, a leading manufacturer of high-end stereo
equipment, has done the same thing. Instead of launching a
few amplifiers a year, McIntosh launches a few a decade. This
tactic may not satisfy the junior people in the Engineering
department (fewer cool projects), but it helps build the leg-
end and work the products through the adoption curve.
   Doing nothing is not as good as doing something (great).
But marketing just to keep busy is worse than nothing at all.

                                                              75
                       Seth Godin

      What would happen if you took one or two sea-
     sons off from the new-product grind and reintro-
     duced wonderful classics instead? What sort of
     amazing thing could you offer in the first season
     you came back (with rested designers)?

76
                        Purple Cow

Case Study: United States
Postal Service
Very few organizations have as timid an audience as the
United States Postal Service. Dominated by conservative
big customers, the Postal Service has a very hard time
innovating. The big direct marketers are successful
because they’ve figured out how to thrive under the cur-
rent system, and they’re in no mood to see that system
change. Most individuals are in no hurry to change their
mailing habits, either.
   The majority of new policy initiatives at the Postal
Service are either ignored or met with nothing but dis-
dain. But ZIP+4 was a huge success. Within a few years, the
Postal Service diffused a new idea, causing a change in bil-
lions of address records in thousands of databases. How?
   First, it was a game-changing innovation. ZIP+4 makes
it far easier for marketers to target neighborhoods, and
much faster and easier to deliver the mail. The product
was a Purple Cow, completely changing the way customers
and the Postal Service deal with bulk mail. ZIP+4 offered
both dramatically increased speed in delivery and a signif-
icantly lower cost for bulk mailers. These benefits made it
worth the time it took mailers to pay attention. The cost of
ignoring the innovation would be felt immediately on the
bottom line.
   Second, the Postal Service wisely singled out a few early
adopters. These were individuals in organizations that were
technically savvy and were extremely sensitive to both pricing
and speed issues. These early adopters were also in a position
to sneeze the benefits to other, less astute, mailers.
   The lesson here is simple: The more intransigent your
market, the more crowded the marketplace, the busier

                                                            77
                      Seth Godin

your customers, the more you need the Purple Cow. Half-
measures will fail. Overhauling the product with dramatic
improvements in things the right customers care about,
on the other hand, can have a huge payoff.

78
                        Purple Cow

In Search of Otaku
The Japanese have invented some truly useful words. One
of them is otaku. Otaku describes something that’s more
than a hobby but a little less than an obsession. Otaku is the
overwhelming desire that gets someone to drive across
town to try a new ramen-noodle shop that got a great
review. Otaku is the desire to find out everything about
Lionel’s new digital locomotive – and to tell your fellow
hobbyists about it.
   People read Fast Company because they have an otaku about
business. They visit trade shows to stay on the cutting edge
– not just to help their company survive, but because they
like that edge. Otaku, it turns out, is at the heart of the
Purple Cow phenomenon.
   As we saw earlier, your company can’t thrive just by ful-
filling basic needs. You must somehow connect with pas-
sionate early adopters and get those adopters to spread the
word through the curve. And that’s where otaku comes in.
   Consumers with otaku are the sneezers you seek. They’re
the ones who will take the time to learn about your prod-
uct, take the risk to try your product, and take their
friends’ time to tell them about it. The flash of insight is
that some markets have more otaku-stricken consumers
than others. The task of the remarkable marketer is to
identify these markets and focus on them to the exclusion
of lesser markets – regardless of relative size.
   There’s a healthy vein of hot-sauce otaku in the United
States, for example. Chili-heads in search of ever hotter
elixirs, the biggest possible burn, have made the produc-
tion of these insane sauces into a real business. Examples?
Dave’s Insanity, Blair’s After Death Hot Sauce, Mad Dog 357,
Pain 100%, Mad Dog Inferno, Boar’s Breath, Sweet Mama
Jamma’s Mojo Juice, Melinda’s XXXX, Mad Cat, Lost in

                                                            79
                        Seth Godin

Boiling Lake, Satan’s Revenge, and the always popular Trailer
Trash. At the same time that dozens of entrepreneurs have
created successful hot-sauce businesses with no advertis-
ing, no one has made any impact selling mustard.
   Arguably, there are more people who enjoy mustard
than people who enjoy brain-scorching 25,000-Scoville-
unit hot sauce. Yet hot sauce is a business and mustard
isn’t. Why? Because very few people will order mustard by
mail or request a different brand at a restaurant. They
don’t have the otaku.
   Smart businesses target markets where there’s already
otaku.

      Go to a science fiction convention. These are
     pretty odd folks. Do you appeal to an audience as
     wacky and wonderful as this one? How could you
     create one? (Jeep did. So did Fast Company and the
     Longaberger basket company. There are similar
     groups in the investing community, the market for
     operating systems, and the market for million-
     dollar stereo systems. Products differ, but sneezers
     and early adopters stay the same.)

80
                               Purple Cow

Case Study: How Dutch Boy Stirred Up
the Paint Business
It’s so simple it’s scary. They changed the can.
   Paint cans are heavy, hard to carry, hard to close, hard to
open, hard to pour from, and no fun. Yet they’ve been
around for a long time, and most people assumed there
had to be a reason.
   Dutch Boy realized that there was no reason. They also
realized that the can was an integral part of the product –
people don’t buy paint; they buy painted walls, and the can
makes the painting process much easier.
   Dutch Boy used this insight and introduced an easier-
to-carry, easier-to-pour-from, easier-to-close paint jug.
Sales went way up – no surprise when you think about it.
Not only did the new packaging increase sales, but it also
got Dutch Boy paint more distribution (at a higher retail
price!).

   A few obvious changes in the can meant a huge surge in sales for Dutch Boy.
   The obvious question: Why did it take so long?

  This is marketing done right. Marketing where the mar-
keter changes the product, not the ads.

                                                                                 81
                        Seth Godin

      Where does your product end and marketing
     hype begin? The Dutch Boy can is clearly product,
     not hype. Can you redefine what you sell in a sim-
     ilar way?

82
                               Purple Cow

Case Study: Krispy Kreme
There are two kinds of people – those who have heard the
legend of Krispy Kreme donuts and assume that everyone
knows it, and those who live somewhere where the donut
dynasty hasn’t yet shown up.

   Since the day of their IPO, Krispy Kreme has totally demolished all expec-
   tations, drastically outperforming just about every other stock. Why? Krispy
   Kreme understands how to manage the Cow.

   Krispy Kreme makes a good donut. No doubt about it.
But is it a donut worth driving an hour for? Apparently,
donut maniacs believe it is. And this very remarkable fact
is at the core of Krispy Kreme’s success.
   When Krispy Kreme opens in a new town, they begin by
giving away thousands of donuts. Of course, the people
most likely to show up for a free hot donut are those who
have heard the legend of Krispy Kreme and are delighted
that they’re finally in town.
   These sneezers are quick to tell their friends, sell their
friends, even drag their friends to a store. And that’s
where the second phase kicks in. Krispy Kreme is obsessed
with dominating the donut conversation. Once they’ve

                                                                                  83
                        Seth Godin

opened their flagship stores in an area, they rush to do
deals with gas stations, coffee shops, and delis. The goal?
To make it easy for someone to stumble onto the product.
They start with people who will drive twenty miles, and
finish with people too lazy to cross the street.
  If the product stays remarkable (and Krispy Kreme is
betting millions that it will), then some of those lazy peo-
ple will be converted to the donut otaku. They will start the
next wave of Krispy Kreme mania, spreading it in a new
town until the chain arrives.
  It’s worth noting that this probably wouldn’t work with
bagels or brownies. There’s something very visceral about
the obsession that donut fans feel about Krispy Kreme,
and discovering and leveraging that feeling is at the heart
of this phenomenon. In other words, find the market
niche first, and then make the remarkable product – not
the other way around.

84
                        Purple Cow

The Process and the Plan
So is there a foolproof way to create a Purple Cow every
time? Is there a secret formula, a ritual, an incantation
that you can use to increase creativity at the same time you
stay firmly grounded in reality?
   Of course not.
   There is no plan. The eventual slowdown of almost
every Purple Cow company indicates that there’s no rule
book listing things that always produce. That’s one reason
that seeing the insight of the Cow is so difficult. Looking
in our rear-view mirror, we can always say, “Of course that
worked.” By definition, a genuine Purple Cow is some-
thing that was remarkable in just the right way. When we
take our eyes off the rear-view mirror, though, creating a
Purple Cow suddenly gets a lot more difficult.
   If you were looking to this book for a plan, I’m sorry to
tell you that I don’t have one. I do, however, have a
process. A system that has no given tactics but is as good as
any.
   The system is pretty simple: Go for the edges. Challenge
yourself and your team to describe what those edges are
(not that you’d actually go there), and then test which edge
is most likely to deliver the marketing and financial results
you seek.
   By reviewing every other P – your pricing, your packag-
ing, and so forth – you sketch out where your edges are
. . . and where your competition is. Without understand-
ing this landscape, you can’t go to the next step and figure
out which innovation you can support.
   Would it be remarkable if your spa offered all its servic-
es for free? Sure, but without a financial model that sup-
ports that, it’s not clear that you’d last very long. JetBlue

                                                           85
                        Seth Godin

figured out how to get way over to the edge of both service
and pricing – with a business that was also profitable.
Archie McPhee did it in retail with their product selec-
tion. Starbucks determined how to redefine what a cup of
coffee meant (in a way very different from the way JetBlue
delivered their innovation).
   It’s not the tactics or the plan that joins the Purple Cow
products together. It’s the process organizations use to
discover (intentionally or accidentally) the fringes that
make their products remarkable.

86
                         Purple Cow

The Power of a Slogan
Slogans used to be important because you could put them
in TV commercials and get your message across in just a
few seconds. Today, that same conciseness is important
but for a different reason.
   A slogan that accurately conveys the essence of your
Purple Cow is a script. A script for the sneezer to use when
she talks with her friends. The slogan reminds the user,
“Here’s why it’s worth recommending us; here’s why your
friends and colleagues will be glad you told them about
us.” And best of all, the script guarantees that the word of
mouth is passed on properly – that the prospect is coming
to you for the right reason.
   Tiffany’s blue box is a slogan without words. It stands for
elegance and packaging and quality and “price is no
object.” Every time someone gives a gift in the Tiffany’s
box, she’s spreading the word. Just like the Hooters name
and logo or the funky hipness of Apple’s industrial design,
each company has managed to position itself in a coherent
way and make it easy to spread the word to others.
   The Leaning Tower of Pisa sees millions of visitors every
year. It’s exactly as advertised. It’s a leaning tower. There’s
nothing to complicate the message. There’s no “also,”
“and,” or “plus.” It’s just the leaning tower in the middle
of a lawn. Put a picture on a T-shirt, and the message is
easily sent and received. The purity of the message makes
it even more remarkable. It’s easy to tell someone about
the Leaning Tower. Much harder to tell them about the
Pantheon in Rome. So, even though the Pantheon is
beautiful, breathtaking, and important, it sees 1 percent of
the crowds that the harder-to-get-to Tower in Pisa gets.
   Every one of these examples highlights the fact that this
is not marketing done to a product. The marketing is the

                                                            87
                        Seth Godin

product, and vice versa. No smart marketer transformed
Hooters or the Leaning Tower of Pisa. The marketing is
built right in.

      Do you have a slogan or positioning statement
     or remarkable boast that’s actually true? Is it con-
     sistent? Is it worth passing on?

88
                       Purple Cow

Case Study: The Häagen-Dazs
in Bronxville
The nearest Häagen-Dazs is just like all the other ice
cream shops you’ve been to. They’ve got cones, bars, and
frozen yogurt. Only two things are different about a
Häagen-Dazs shop: it’s cleaner and a lot better run. How
come?
  Well, sitting on the counter is a stack of large business
cards. The card lists the name and office phone number
of the owner of the store. And then the card says, “If you
have any comments at all about the store, please call me at
home.” And it lists the owner’s home phone number.
  People who visit, notice. People who work there realize
that the customers are noticing. It’s all very remarkable.
Stand in the store for twenty minutes, and you’re sure to
hear one customer mention the cards to another. If every
store owner did this, it probably wouldn’t work. But
because it’s so unusual, the customers take notice and the
staff is on alert.

   If you’re in an intangibles business, your busi-
  ness card is a big part of what you sell. What if
  everyone in your company had to carry a second
  business card? Something that actually sold them
  (and you). Something remarkable. Imagine if
  Milton Glaser or Chip Kidd designed something
  worth passing on. So go do it!

                                                         89
                        Seth Godin

Sell What People Are Buying
(and Talking About!)
A few years ago, after yet another unsuccessful sales call, I
realized the blindingly obvious: It’s a lot easier to sell
something that people are already in the mood to buy.
   As obvious as this may seem, most marketers don’t get it.
For example, Butterball has invented a new use for turkey
(and its brand) and has introduced fast-baking pot pies,
now in your grocer’s freezer. The problem is that the
audience for this very retro food isn’t necessarily in the
market for a brand-new way to feed their family. What’s
worse, Butterball is introducing the product with TV
commercials running on the Food Channel.
   I’m trying hard to imagine Butterball’s target customer.
The Food Channel viewer is busy watching a cooking show,
and here’s an insipid, soft-focus commercial for a glori-
fied TV dinner. How many viewers will even watch the
commercial? Of those watching, how many will respond
in the way Butterball hopes? Worse, how many will tell a
friend about this great new meal?
   On the list of people who are baking a frozen comfort
food for dinner, there are few risk-taking early adopters.
And among those adopters, very few, it seems to me, are
going to look to the Food Channel for the answer to their
“What’s new?” problem.
   Consumers with needs are the ones most likely to respond
to your solutions. Whether your prospect is an industrial
bearings buyer at Ford or an overworked househusband in
Tucson, you need to figure out who’s buying, and then solve
their problem. Butterball’s product is unremarkable. It
doesn’t solve anyone’s problem except for Butterball’s.
Butterball’s advertising and media choices make it worse.

90
                       Purple Cow

   The alternative is to start with a problem that you can
solve for your customer (who realizes he has a problem!).
Then, once you’ve come up with a solution that is so
remarkable that the early adopters among this population
will gleefully respond, you’ve got to promote it in a medi-
um where those most likely to sneeze are actually paying
attention. Altoids’ campaign is a great example. They real-
ized that young adults who weren’t taking up smoking were
looking for something to do with their fingers and their
mouths while at work – and Hershey’s bars weren’t going
to cut it.
   By advertising in urban centers with cutting-edge
imagery and slogans, Altoids spoke directly to this market
about a need that customers didn’t even know they had. By
creating a tin that just begged to be shared, Altoids made
it easy for early adopters to sneeze the product to the rest
of the market. The result: one of the most profitable
candy introductions ever.

                                                          91
                        Seth Godin

The Problem with Compromise
The old saying is right: “A camel is a horse designed by a
committee.” If the goal of marketing is to create a Purple
Cow, and the nature of the Cow is to be extreme in some
attribute, it’s inevitable that compromise can only dimin-
ish your chances of success.
   Compromise is about sanding down the rough edges to
gain buy-in from other constituencies. Vanilla is a com-
promise ice cream flavor, while habanero pecan is not.
While there may be just a few people who are unwilling to
eat vanilla ice cream, there are legions of people who are
allergic to nuts, sensitive to spicy food, or just plain unin-
terested in eating a challenging scoop of ice cream. The
safe compromise choice for a kid’s birthday party is the
vanilla. But vanilla is boring. You can’t build a fast-grow-
ing company around vanilla.
   In almost every market, the boring slot is filled. The
product designed to appeal to the largest possible audi-
ence already exists, and displacing it is awfully difficult.
Difficult because the very innocuousness of the market-
leading product is its greatest asset. How can you market
yourself as “more bland than the leading brand”? The real
growth comes with products that annoy, offend, don’t
appeal, are too expensive, too cheap, too heavy, too com-
plicated, too simple – too something. (Of course, they’re
too too for some people, but just perfect for others.)
   Bootstrapping entrepreneurs often upend existing
industries because the dominant players in an indus-
try are the last places you’ll find empowered maver-
icks. The market-leading companies may owe their
dominance to the Purple Cow they marketed years and
years ago, but today, they’re all about compromising
themselves to continued profitability. The seeds of

92
                       Purple Cow

their destruction lie in their dependence on being in
the middle.

   If someone in your organization is charged with
  creating a new Purple Cow, leave them alone! Don’t use
  internal reviews and usability testing to figure out if
  the new product is as good as what you’ve got now.
  Instead, pick the right maverick and get out of the way.

Case Study: Motorola and Nokia
Guess what? Cell phones are now boring. Just about
everyone who needs a phone now has one. Most people
who want a phone have one, too. The companies that built
this revolution now have a problem: What next?
  What do they have to put into a phone to get people to
notice it? Is it possible to make a remarkable phone any-
more? What both companies have discovered is that small-
er phones no longer create excitement, so they needed
something new. Nokia just introduced a $21,000 cell
phone called Vertu – designed to be not just a phone but a
remarkable piece of jewelry as well. At the same time, both
companies are working on disposable phones that they
hope will be remarkably cheap.
  In a totally different direction, both companies are
scrambling to market phones that send photographs. Of
course, both the sender and the recipient have to have the
right kind of phone, but that might be a good thing.
  The sad truth, though, is that it may be quite a while
before the market generates the attention it did five years
ago. The Purple Cow has left the room, and there’s not a
lot the cell phone companies can do about it.

                                                             93
                       Seth Godin

The Magic Cycle of the Cow
Does our chaotic world guarantee that your efforts to
bring new ideas to the marketplace are guaranteed to be
chaotic as well? Are we doomed to randomly invent stuff
for an ever-changing roster of potential consumers?
  I don’t think so. The reason is that many consumers
don’t change their roles very often. Sneezers love to
sneeze. They’re often open to hearing from marketers
who are pretty reliable in their track record of creating
Purple Cows. But cocooned, scared consumers (in busi-
ness or at home) keep their ears closed virtually all the
time. The cautious consumers are stuck in their habitual
mode, just like the sneezers are.
  But it’s the sneezers we care about, and we can leverage
the fact that if we respect them, they’ll listen.
  The four steps, then, are these:
  1. Get permission from people you impressed the
     first time. Not permission to spam them or sell
     them leftovers or squeeze extra margins from
     them. Permission to alert them the next time you
     might have another Cow.
  2. Work with the sneezers in that audience to make it
     easier for them to help your idea cross the chasm.
     Give them the tools (and the story) they’ll need to
     sell your idea to a wider audience.
  3. Once you’ve crossed the line from remarkable to
     profitable business, let a different team milk it.
     Productize your services, servicize your products,
     let a thousand variations bloom. But don’t believe
     your own press releases. This is the inevitable
     downward slide to commodity. Milk it for all it’s
     worth, and fast.

94
                       Purple Cow

 4. Reinvest. Do it again. With a vengeance. Launch
     another Purple Cow (to the same audience). Fail
     and fail and fail again. Assume that what was
     remarkable last time won’t be remarkable this
     time.
 This may not be nearly as predictable or as profitable as
marketing Quisp or Wheaties or Wisk or Allstate or
Maxwell House was thirty years ago. Sorry. Not my fault.
But it’s all we’ve got.

   All of a sudden, it’s obvious why you need a per-
  mission asset. If your company doesn’t have one
  yet, you can start today, for free, by using Outlook
  on your PC. Give people an email address to write
  to. Write back. You’re on your way.

                                                         95
                        Seth Godin

What It Means to Be a Marketer Today
If Purple Cow is now one of the Ps of marketing, it has
profound implications for the enterprise. It changes the
definition of marketing.
   It used to be that Engineering invented, Manufacturing
built, Marketing marketed, and Sales sold. There was a
clear division of labor, and the president managed the
whole shebang. The marketer got a budget and she bought
ads with it.
   Marketing was really better called “advertising.”
Marketing was about communicating the values of a prod-
uct after it had been developed and manufactured.
   That’s clearly not a valid strategy in a world where the
product attributes (everything from service to design) are
now at the heart of what it means to be a marketer.
Marketing is the act of inventing the product. The effort
of designing it. The craft of producing it. The art of pric-
ing it. The technique of selling it. How can a Purple Cow
company not be run by a marketer?
   Companies that create Purple Cows –companies like
JetBlue, Starbucks, Hasbro, and Poland Spring – have to
be run by marketers. Turns out that the CEO of JetBlue
made one critical decision on day one: He got the head of
Marketing involved in product design and training as well.
It shows. Everything they do that adds value is marketing.
Poland Spring starts with worthless water. Hasbro starts
with a few cents’ worth of plastic and paper. JetBlue sells a
commodity just like American Airlines does, but manages
to make a profit doing it. These companies are marketers
at their core.
   The geniuses who invented 1-800-COLLECT are true
marketers. They didn’t figure out how to market an exist-

96
                        Purple Cow

ing service. Instead, the marketing is built into the prod-
uct – from the easy-to-remember phone number, of
course, to the very idea that MCI could steal the collect call
business from the pay-phone operators.
  But isn’t the same idea true for a local restaurant, a
grinding wheel company, and Travelers Insurance? In a
world where just about anything we need is good enough,
and where just about all the profit comes from the Purple
Cow, we’re all marketers!
  If a company is failing, it is the fault of the most senior
management, and the problem is probably this: They’re
running a company, not marketing a product.

    Go take a design course. Send your designers to
   a marketing course. And both of you should spend
   a week in the factory.

                                                            97
                       Seth Godin

Marketers No Longer:
Now We’re Designers
Fifteen years ago, when Jerry Hirschberg was starting up
the U.S. design studio for Nissan, he was invited to the
long-range product planning meetings as an observer – a
courtesy extended to him by the marketing people.
   The meetings were all about vague pronouncements
about future cars (“all entry-level cars should be as gener-
ic as possible”) and plenty of spreadsheets about advertis-
ing spending and projected income. They were also the
most important meetings the company held to plan its
long-term future. The designers were mere tacticians.
   Jerry proved, in short order, that he was much more
than an observer. He demonstrated that designers not
only had an important role in this process but should in
fact dominate it.
   If post-design, post-manufacture marketing is dead, what
replaces it? Design. Not the pure design that they teach at
Parsons, but a market-centric design that builds the very
success of the product’s marketing into the product itself.
   The semantics get funky, but the facts are clear. The
person with real influence on the success of a product
today gets to sit at the table when the original seeds for a
project are being sown.
   If you are a marketer who doesn’t know how to invent,
design, influence, adapt, and ultimately discard products,
then you’re no longer a marketer. You’re deadwood.

      Make a list of all the remarkable products in
     your industry. Who made them? How did they hap-
     pen? Model the behavior (not mimic the product)
     and you’re more than halfway to making your own.

98
                         Purple Cow

What Does Howard Know?
One thing about Starbucks is obvious – the coffee is really and
truly delicious. The reason is simple. Howard Schultz (the
company’s CEO) loves coffee. He refers to everyone who has-
n’t had their first cup of the day as “pre-caffeinated.” He spent
months in Italy, drinking and learning. He has a coffee otaku.
   Where does remarkable come from? Often, it comes
from passionate people who are making something for
themselves. The Burton snowboard, the Vanguard mutual
fund, the Apple iPod, and the Learjet all came from peo-
ple with an otaku. It’s interesting to note that the chocolate
at Starbucks isn’t as great as the coffee. Obviously, Howard
doesn’t know chocolate the way he knows coffee. Starbucks
isn’t obsessed with chocolate; they just serve it. Are you
obsessed or just making a living?
   The number-one question about the Purple Cow is,
“How do I know it’s remarkable?” This question almost
always comes from the people who don’t have the otaku.
John Scharffenberger, founder of Scharffen Berger
Chocolate, has no trouble telling great chocolate from
ordinary chocolate. He gets it.
   When I was building my first company (we created
books), I always asked potential employees how often they
went to the bookstore. People who don’t love shopping for
books obviously don’t have the book otaku, and they’re
going to have a harder time inventing books for people
who do.
   Everyone who works at Patagonia is an outdoor nut.
When the surf is up, the offices empty out as people rush to
hit the waves. While this makes for a chaotic work environ-
ment, it also makes it more likely that Patagonia staff will
know a remarkable outdoor product when they see one.

                                                              99
                         Seth Godin

  Compare this to the people who work at General Foods or
General Mills or Kellogg’s. A few of them might be obsessed
with their products, but most of them just churn the stuff
out. Imagine how cool Pop Tarts would be if the brand
manager was the sort of person who ate them for dinner.

              This is Dineh Mohajer, founder of Hard Candy, a cosmet-
              ics company with more than $10 million a year in sales.
              She knows what young women who love nail polish want
              because she is a young woman who loves nail polish.

   A doctor I know makes a point of calling patients even if
it’s not bad news. If your routine tests come back with
nothing to worry about, he calls and tells you. This is a
monumentally simple task, but it’s remarkable nonethe-
less. “It’s simple,” he told me; “that’s what I want my doc-
tor to do for me.” Sometimes, in the middle of all the
tumult of work, it’s easy to forget that we’re making some-
thing for people who care.
   The challenge is in projecting. It’s easier if you care
deeply. But what if you don’t care? What if you’re busy
making and marketing something you’re not passionate
about using? After all, someone needs to make disposable
diapers or dialysis machines or grinding wheels.
   You can choose from two techniques. The first is to
learn the art of projecting. Of getting inside the heads of
the people who do care deeply about this product and mak-
ing them something they’ll love and want to share.
Marketers and designers who do it can put themselves into
other people’s shoes and imagine what they’d want. In the
long run, learning this knack is actually much more prof-
itable than being able to make stuff for only yourself.
Learning this knack gives you more flexibility. There are
marketers who can create Purple Cows for only a tiny

100
                          Purple Cow

audience – an audience just like the marketers themselves.
They make decisions based on gut instinct, and (for a
while) this works. If you follow this path, though, sooner
or later your gut will let you down. If you haven’t devel-
oped the humility that comes from being able to project to
multiple audiences, you’re likely to panic when you can’t
connect to your chosen group any longer.
  The second technique is to learn the science of projecting –
to build a discipline of launching products, watching,
measuring, learning, and doing it again. Obviously, this
technique doesn’t work for complicated, long-sales-cycle
products like jet airliners, but it does work for cars, toys,
and most everything in between. Every February, the toy
industry launches hundreds of toys at the annual Toy Fair.
Only a fraction ever get produced, though. The non-
remarkable ones disappear some time between their
introduction and their ship date.
  The marketers who are practicing the science of project-
ing what people want don’t have a particular bias or point
of view. Instead, they understand the process and will take it
wherever it goes.

    Is there someone (a person, an agency?) in your indus-
   try who has a track record of successfully launching
   remarkable products? Can you hire them away, or at least
   learn from their behavior? Immerse yourself in fan mag-
   azines, trade shows, design reviews– whatever it takes to feel
   what your fans feel.

    Can you create a culture of aggressively prototyping
   new products and policies? When GM shows a concept
   car at the New York Auto Show, there’s more than ego
   involved. They’re trying to figure out what car nuts
   think is remarkable. I’m not pitching focus groups
   here (they’re a waste). I’m talking about very public
   releases of cheap prototypes.

                                                                101
                          Seth Godin

Do You Have to Be Outrageous
to Be Remarkable?
Outrageous is not always remarkable. It’s certainly not
required. Sometimes outrageous is just annoying. Ozzy
Osbourne is lucky to be both outrageous and remarkable.
But a performance artist smearing himself with lard and
wrapping himself in felt is just plain weird.
   It’s easy to fall into a trap of running upside-down ads,
wearing green bow ties, and filling your ads with scatolog-
ical references. Being scandalous might work on occasion,
but it’s not a strategy; it’s desperation. The outrageousness
needs to have a purpose, and it needs to be built into the
product.
   Walking onto a cross-country flight, I noticed that the
60-year-old woman in front of me was wearing a Hooters
T-shirt. Their slogan? “Delightfully tacky, yet unrefined.”
The fascinating thing about Hooters’ outrageousness is
that it’s just outrageous enough to be remarkable to this
audience...without offending. Does everyone like
Hooters? No way. That’s part of what makes it remarkable.
If everyone liked it, it would be boring.
   The reminder: It’s not about the way you say it, it’s what
you say. And while you can momentarily use offensive
behavior to capture the attention of people who might not
want to pay attention, it’s not a long-run strategy.
Outrageousness by itself won’t work because the conversa-
tions sneezers have about you aren’t positive.

       You’re probably guilty of being too shy, not too
      outrageous. Try being outrageous, just for the sake
      of being annoying. It’s good practice. Don’t do it
      too much because it doesn’t usually work. But it’s a
      good way to learn what it feels like to be at the edge.

102
                       Purple Cow

Case Study: McDonald’s France
The French subsidiary of McDonald’s recently subsidized
and publicized a report that urged the French not to visit
fast-food outlets like McDonald’s more than once a week.
The report created a worldwide uproar, and the U.S. par-
ent company professed to be “shocked!”
   Is this a bad strategy? Perhaps by being honest (and very
different) when talking to their customers, the French
subsidiary is building the foundation of a long-term
growth strategy. The American factory/advertising model
demands more, more, more, which ultimately leads to a
flameout when the pace of growth can’t be maintained. By
acknowledging the downsides of the fast-food experience,
perhaps McDonald’s France is reaching a far larger audi-
ence than they could ever hope to reach the old way.

    What would happen if you told the truth?

                                                         103
                         Seth Godin

But What About the Factory?
This is certainly the biggest objection to Purple Cow
thinking. Your company has been successful. You grew
(probably on the strength of the TV-industrial complex).
You invested in people, policies, distribution, a product
line, and a factory. A system that every employee has
bought into – it’s who you are.
   And now, apparently overnight, nothing is working the
way it should. If you’re Burger King, you switch ad agen-
cies (again). If you’re Motorola, you lay off ten thousand
people. Small companies suffer, too, but more quietly.
   Most big companies think that marketing is in crisis.
They see that what they used to do doesn’t work the way it
used to. They want to protect their huge investment in
infrastructure, and they believe that fixing their marketing
is the answer.
   Your boss and your coworkers are likely to resist when
you share the thoughts in this book. They’ll point out that
it’s marketing’s job to market – that good marketing could
fix the products you’ve got now. You don’t have time for
remarkable products anyway, they say. You need success
right now.
   Well, if you don’t have time to do it right, what makes
you think you’ll have time to do it over?
   I wrote this book to give you ammunition to make your case.
Give everyone a copy. Not just the Marketing department.
Everybody. Let them see that every single industry is feeling
the same pain you are. Perhaps they’ll realize that the problem
isn’t in your advertising – it’s much bigger than that.
   Before you spend another dollar on another brain-dead
ad campaign, trade show, or sales conference, spend some
time with your engineers and your customers. Challenge

104
                        Purple Cow

your people to start with a blank sheet of paper and figure
out what they’d do if they could do just about anything. If
they weren’t afraid of failing, what’s the most audacious
thing they’d try?
  The new CEO of Best Buy, Brad Anderson, is a brilliant
strategist. He’s got a sharp eye for the key moments in the
evolution of his company. He said, “Instead of selling
what we wanted to sell, we sold what people wanted us to
sell, and then figured out how to make money doing it.
Every time we talked to our customers, they wanted us to
follow the path that turned out to be the hardest possible
path we could follow. And every time, that path was the
right path.”
  Best Buy could have done what just about every other
regional electronics retailer facing a slowdown does: Buy
some more newspaper ads. Play with the pricing. Lay some
people off. Whine a bit and buckle down. Instead, Best
Buy opted to follow a harder path, one that led to a
remarkable experience for the consumer. At first, this
looked like a longer, slower way to make their business
grow, but in retrospect, it was a lot faster (and a lot cheap-
er) than running a bunch of boring ads and staying just
where they were.

    Remarkable isn’t always about changing the biggest
   machine in your factory. It can be the way you answer
   the phone, launch a new brand, or price a revision to
   your software. Getting in the habit of doing the
   “unsafe” thing every time you have the opportunity is
   the best way to learn to project – you get practice at
   seeing what’s working and what’s not.

                                                           105
                       Seth Godin

The Problem with Cheap
Cheap is one of the only remarkable items that never
seems to run out of appeal. For just about any repeatedly
purchased item, all other things being equal, the cheap
one will gain market share.
   The problem with cheap is that once you start, your
competitor will likely play the same game. In an incre-
mental price war, how will one player beat the other and
still win economically? IKEA can do it. Wal-Mart can do
it. Can you?
   Cheap is a lazy way out of the battle for the Purple Cow.
Cheap is the last refuge of a product developer or mar-
keter who is out of great ideas.
   The exception to this rule is the quantum leap in pric-
ing. When a marketer can radically redefine the way a
product is produced or delivered, and leapfrog the pric-
ing of others, that can create a remarkable game-changing
event.
   The Purple Cow is not the exclusive domain of high-
priced products and wealthy consumers. Motel 6 is
remarkable for being simultaneously clean and cheap.
Same with Wal-Mart.
   JetBlue and Southwest have completely changed the
pricing equation in air travel. Traditional carriers, with
expensive hubs and awkward union relationships, cannot
sustain long-term price competition. In the long run, the
50-percent cost advantage enjoyed by these new competi-
tors is certain to defeat the old guard. American and
United know this, yet there’s absolutely nothing that they
can do about it. Southwest changed the rules of the game,
and the big airlines don’t even have a pair of dice.
   IKEA has done it in furniture. They so dominate their

106
                       Purple Cow

segment with cheap (but not cheapo) furnishings that they
are able to drive their costs lower and lower. Their volume
advantage changes the game for their competition, guar-
anteeing IKEA leadership in this segment (until some
competitor figures out a remarkable way to change the
game again).

   If you could build a competitor that had costs
  that were 30 percent lower than yours, could you do
  it? If you could, why don’t you?

                                                        107
                        Seth Godin

Case Study: What Should
Hallmark.com Do?
Hallmark runs one of the three biggest online greeting
card services. The site grew when an ideavirus started –
people would send an e-card to a friend, who would find
out about the service by reading the card and would
respond by sending a few more cards. Within a year, bil-
lions of cards were flying around online.
   The challenge, of course, is turning this free activity
into something that can actually make money. One thing
that’s working for Hallmark is selling gift certificates.
Hallmark owns a gift certificate company, and they make a
profit every time you spend $20 on a $20 gift certificate
(complicated, but true).
   Anyway, Hallmark lies at the nexus of three powerful forces
at work in this book, so I was happy to help my friend at
Hallmark brainstorm some ways to put them to work.
   To start, Hallmark has permission to talk to the audi-
ence. These are consumers who voluntarily come to the
site to send a card. No interruption media necessary. Alas,
even though they are here on their own, many of them
aren’t looking for Hallmark to have a voice in the conver-
sation, so they’re not listening to any news Hallmark
might want to share.
   Fortunately, many of the visitors are members of
Hallmark’s Gold Crown Club. These consumers are busy
collecting points (à la frequent flyer miles) to trade in for
prizes. These self-selected consumers have a problem
(how do I get more points?) that they’re willing to look to
the market to solve.
   And best of all, these Gold Crown Club members are
assiduous sneezers. They send a ton of cards (electronic

108
                          Purple Cow

and paper) every year, and the people they send them to
enjoy receiving them – the recipients know the sender
doesn’t have anything to gain. They just care enough to
send the very best.
   The win, it seems to me, is for Hallmark to discover
whether people getting a gift certificate are likely to turn
around and send one. If the idea of an electronic gift cer-
tificate is remarkable enough to spread, then their chal-
lenge is to get the core group of sneezers to spread the
word.
   So here are my ideas for my friend at Hallmark:
   When a Gold Crown Club member is about to send an
e-card, ask him if he wants to find out how many points
he’ll get if he also sends a gift certificate. This will be a
randomly chosen number between 100 points (a little)
and 1 million points (a ton!). Obviously, most people will
win a small number, but every once in a while someone
will be eligible to win a large number.
   Most members of this concentrated, focused, listening
group will be happy to risk a click to get to the next page
just to see how much they stand to earn. Now that
Hallmark has shifted the conversation from “send an e-
card” to “talk to Hallmark about gift certificates,”
Hallmark has a chance to sell these consumers on why a
gift certificate might be a remarkable gift. And many of
these sneezers – suitably motivated, rewarded, and edu-
cated – will go ahead and send one.
   Of course, this promotion doesn’t hit a home run
unless recipients of the gift certificates start sending gift
certificates as well.
   Isn’t a million points a lot to give away? Exactly. It’s Purple.

                                                               109
                         Seth Godin

When the Cow Looks for a Job
So far, we’ve talked about what companies should do. But
what about you? Can you apply this thinking to your job
search?
   Odds are that the last time you switched jobs, you used a
résumé. Following conventional wisdom, you may have
sent it to hundreds or thousands of employers. You may
have posted it online or emailed it in an effort to “net-
work” your way to a new job.
   All of this effort is really nothing but advertising.
Advertising in a way that’s very different from buying TV
ads, but also very similar. After all, your résumé is likely to
land on the desk of someone with no interest whatsoever
in you or what you’re up to. Worse, it’s unlikely that this
strategy will lead to much word of mouth.
   There’s another way. You’ve probably guessed it: Be
exceptional. Remarkable people with remarkable careers
seem to switch jobs with far less effort. Remarkable people
often don’t even have a résumé. Instead, they rely on
sneezers who are quick to recommend them when open-
ings come up. Remarkable people are often recruited
from jobs they love to jobs they love even more.
   The secret doesn’t lie in the job-seeking technique. It
has to do with what these people do when they’re not look-
ing for a job. These Purple Cows do an outrageous job.
They work on high-profile projects. These people take
risks, often resulting in big failures. These failures rarely
lead to a dead end, though. They’re not really risks, after
all. Instead, they just increase the chances that these peo-
ple will get an even better project next time.
   If you’re thinking about being a Purple Cow, the time to
do it is when you’re not looking for a job.

110
                        Purple Cow

   In your career, even more than for a brand, being safe is
risky. The path to lifetime job security is to be remarkable.

    References available upon request? Nonsense.
   Your references are your résumé. A standard
   résumé is nothing but an opportunity for a
   prospective employer to turn you down. A sheaf of
   over-the-top references, on the other hand, begs
   for a meeting.

    Visit www.monster.com. Millions of résumés, all
   in a pile, all waiting for someone to find them. If
   you’re in that pile, it’s not a good place to be. Before
   you start looking for a job, consider what you could
   do today so you never have to worry about that.

                                                              111
                        Seth Godin

Case Study: Tracey the Publicist
So my friend Tracey quit her job at a publicity firm to set
up her own shop. Following conventional wisdom, she
sent out hundreds of form letters to hundreds of market-
ing directors all over the Northeast. This is awfully expen-
sive advertising, and of course, it didn’t work very well.
   Any marketing directors who need a PR firm probably
already have one. If they were looking for a new one, it
would take far more than an unsolicited FedEx package to
get them to pick up the phone and call Tracey.
   What to do?
   After talking with Tracey, I suggested that she focus on
the narrowest possible niche. Her background was in
pharmaceuticals, so we picked that. In fact, we went way
further – to plastic surgeons. Tracey decided to focus
obsessively on being the world’s best publicist to plastic
surgeons. If pharmaceutical companies need to reach this
audience in the most effective way, they’ll need to call her.
She knows all the journals, all the conferences, and most
of the doctors. She has the lists and the contacts. She is the
one and only exceptional choice. Everyone else has this
audience as part of their portfolio. For Tracey, they are her
portfolio.
   If your job depended on hiring the best person in the
world to publicize your new product to plastic surgeons,
who would you hire?

112
                       Purple Cow

Case Study: Robyn Waters Gets It
How long has it been since you’ve been to Kmart? My
guess, if you’re like most readers of this book, is “a long
time.” The same can’t be said of Target, though. Target is
the discounter of choice among professionals, design
freaks, and serious shoppers (in other words, people with
money to spend).
  How did Target do it? It certainly wasn’t their advertis-
ing – though that’s pretty good. Nope, it’s because of peo-
ple like Robyn Waters, their VP of “trend, design, and
technical specifications.” (Yes, that’s her actual title.)
  Robyn is the person who persuaded Michael Graves to
make a teapot for Target. She’s the one who searches out
amazingly cheap (but cool) flatware, and little pens with
floating targets in them. Instead of spending time and
money trying to buy market share with advertising, Target
has realized that by offering exclusive items that would be
cool at any price – but that are amazing when they’re
cheap – they can win without a big ad budget. Cool prod-
ucts that appeal to people who both buy new stuff and talk
about it a lot are the core of Target’s strategy.
  If a big-box retailer like Target can obliterate Sears and
Kmart, what’s stopping you from being many degrees
cooler than your bigger competitors?

                                                         113
                        Seth Godin

Case Study: So Popular,
No One Goes There Anymore
Here’s a great case study of how the Purple Cow cycle
works.
   Stew Leonard started an ordinary dairy store in
Connecticut. It was less than twenty thousand square feet,
selling milk, cheese, and the usual dairy store essentials.
Stew didn’t want to settle for a tiny store, though, so he
embraced the Cow.
   He put a petting zoo out front. He developed a cus-
tomer service policy so simple and important he had it
carved in a 6,000-pound block of granite and put in
front of the store. He started featuring unique or unusu-
al products, and he sold many items for dramatically
reduced prices. The store was stuffed with robotic mooing
cows, dancing milk cartons, and a violin-playing chicken.
   As the suburbs near his Connecticut store grew, so did
the legend of his Purple Cow. Stew expanded the store
more than ten times, eventually showing up in Ripley’s Believe
It or Not! He was lauded in one of Tom Peters’ major books.
He was an advisor to politicians and a friend of Paul
Newman. Stew also sold more Perdue chicken every day
than did any other store in the world.
   The store and the innovation it stood for were so spec-
tacular that I took each and every employee I hired and
drove them an hour north to Connecticut just to see how
customer service and showmanship could combine to cre-
ate a world-class organization.
   That was ten years ago.
   Today, Stew Leonard’s is run by his son, and the store
has expanded to several locations. One of them is just two
miles from my house. I never go there.

114
                        Purple Cow

   Why?
   Because it’s too popular. And it’s boring.
   The new Stew (Stew Jr.) used the Purple Cow to spread
the word and to grow. And it worked. But now that he has
already spread the word, it’s more profitable to milk the
Cow. Stew exchanged me (someone with a food and serv-
ice otaku and a big-time sneezer) for ten ordinary grocery
consumers. The products at Stew’s are no longer unique.
He carries nothing organic, no brands you’ve never seen
before, nothing at a remarkably low price. The customer
service is merely okay. Ask someone in the fish department
where to find canned pumpkin, and he’ll point in a vague
direction and say, “Over there.” In the old days (when
Stew’s was still remarkable), someone would walk you over.
   There used to be a suggestion box at the exit. If you sub-
mitted a suggestion, more often than not you got a letter
back from Stew (Senior) himself. Today, the suggestion
box is still there, but don’t count on getting a letter back.
The business is too profitable to worry about that.
   So . . . when your parking lot is full to bursting, and
you’re making far more money than you ever did before,
does that mean you don’t have to worry about the Cow?
   In the short run, Stew Junior’s strategy is brilliant. He’s
using the brand his father built and creating significant
wealth. It’s cynical but it’s true — dumbing down his store
for the masses (not the sneezers) was the way to get rich in
a hurry. If your business is in a similar situation, your
shareholders probably want you to do precisely the same
thing.
   The grocery business is pretty special in that once you
stake out a location, you can profit from it for a very long
time. There’s also not much chance that grocery stores are
going to go out of style, so your ride on top is pretty long
indeed.

                                                           115
                        Seth Godin

   If, on the other hand, your goals are growth and impact
and building an ever-larger and sustained business, it’s
hard to imagine how this strategy scales. If Stew opens a
store in Houston, Texas (an area well-served by big super-
markets and where virtually no one has heard of Stew’s
Purple Cow), he’s just not going to do very well. And if
Stew’s business was as subject to the vagaries of fashion as
yours is, he’d have more to worry about as well.
   The Purple Cow is just part of the product life cycle.
You can’t live it all the time (too risky, too expensive, too
tiring), but when you need to grow or need to introduce
something new, it’s your best shot.
   Next time you go to Stew’s, say hi for me. You’ll find me
and my friends at Brother’s, the fast-growing, very prof-
itable, and quite remarkable vegetable market around the
corner.

116
                         Purple Cow

Is It About Passion?
My hero Tom Peters asks, “Does the work matter?” The
idea of adding passion and Wow! and magic to what we do
is compelling to many of us. All of the great ideation and
risk-taking and multidisciplinary magic that Tom and
those who followed him have riffed about are so impor-
tant – but they don’t appeal to many of the people we work
with.
   The people who say, “How can we make it appeal to a
broader audience?” or “Wal-Mart won’t take it,” or “We
can’t afford silly meetings or product failures” aren’t being
moved by the heroic tales of innovative marketers. The
skeptics think the whole passion thing is sort of flaky.
They’re not buying it. Nope, those people don’t care about
the why. They just want to do what’s going to work.
   And that’s the point of the Cow. You don’t have to like
it. You don’t have to be a Fast Company junkie, a new-prod-
uct guru, a make-work-matter apostle. No, you just have
to realize that nothing else is working. The proof is there. The
big brands, the big successes, the profitable start-ups (big
and small, worldwide and local) have all (okay mostly)
been about the Cow.
   You don’t need passion to create a Purple Cow. Nor do
you need an awful lot of creativity. What you need is the
insight to realize that you have no other choice but to grow
your business or launch your product with Purple Cow
thinking. Nothing else is going to work.
   That means that launching ten products for $10 million
each is a lot smarter than investing $100 million in TV to
launch just one product. It means that if all ten products
fail, you’ve just learned ten ways that aren’t going to work.
You’re still ahead of where you’d be if the one TV launch
had failed (which is far more likely than not.)

                                                             117
                        Seth Godin

   If your boss wants focus groups to prove that a new
product is guaranteed to be a success, don’t bother. If the
focus group likes it, they’re probably wrong. If your com-
pany wants you to pick one and only one product to fea-
ture this Christmas, start working on your résumé. You’re
not going to invent a Purple Cow with those sorts of odds
and that kind of pressure. Things that have to work rarely
do anymore.
   You don’t need a book about creativity or brainstorming
or team building. You’ve already got a hundred (or a
thousand) ideas your group doesn’t have the guts to
launch. You don’t need more time or even more money.
You just need the realization that a brand new business
paradigm is now in charge, and once you accept the real-
ity of the Cow, finding one suddenly gets much easier.
   J. Peterman knew how to reach New Yorker readers. He
knew it was too late to become Lillian Vernon, so he didn’t
try. For the audience he was targeting, his catalog and his
voice were magical. No big mail-order company would
have invested in his vision at first. Too untested, too
“unusual.” Some might even call it weird.
   When Comedy Central focus-group-tested South Park, it
set a record, scoring just 1.5 out of 10 points with women.
Three of the women in the group cried, they hated it so
much. Scary? Sure. Weird? To some. But the group that
mattered – adolescent boys and those who act like them –
spread the word, and the show was a monster hit.
   Remember, it’s not about being weird. It’s about being
irresistible to a tiny group of easily reached sneezers with
otaku. Irresistible isn’t the same as ridiculous. Irresistible
(for the right niche) is just remarkable.

118
                         Purple Cow

True Facts
Interbrand values the top one hundred brands in the
world every year. Interbrand combines a bunch of myste-
rious factors and determines which brands are worth the
most. Here’s the list for 2002:
1. Coca-Cola         35. Nike            69. Rolex
2. Microsoft         36. Gap             70. Time
3. IBM               37. Heinz           71. Ericsson
4. GE                38. Volkswagen      72. Tiffany
5. Intel             39. Goldman Sachs   73. Levi’s
6. Nokia             40. Kellogg’s       74. Motorola
7. Disney            41. Louis Vuitton   75. Duracell
8. McDonald’s        42. SAP             76. BP
9. Marlboro          43. Canon           77. Hertz
10. Mercedes         44. IKEA            78. Bacardi
11. Ford             45. Pepsi           79. Caterpillar
12. Toyota           46. Harley          80. Amazon.com
13. Citibank         47. MTV             81. Panasonic
14. HP               48. Pizza Hut       82. Boeing
15. Amex             49. KFC             83. Shell
16. Cisco Systems    50. Apple           84. Smirnoff
17. AT&T             51. Xerox           85. Johnson & Johnson
18. Honda            52. Gucci           86. Prada
19. Gillette         53. Accenture       87. Moët & Chandon
20. BMW              54. L’Oreal         88. Heineken
21. Sony             55. Kleenex         89. Mobil
22. Nescafé          56. Sun             90. Burger King
23. Oracle           57. Wrigley’s       91. Nivea
24. Budweiser        58. Reuters         92. Wall Street Journal
25. Merrill Lynch    59. Colgate         93. Starbucks
26. Morgan Stanley   60. Philips         94. Barbie
27. Compaq           61. Nestlé          95. Ralph Lauren
28. Pfizer           62. Avon            96. FedEx
29. JPMorgan         63. AOL             97. Johnnie Walker
30. Kodak            64. Chanel          98. Jack Daniel’s
31. Dell             65. Kraft           99. 3M
32. Nintendo         66. Danone          100. Armani
33. Merck            67. Yahoo!
34. Samsung          68. adidas

                                                                   119
                       Seth Godin

   Of these top one hundred, seventy are brands that were
valuable in this country more than twenty-five years ago.
Of these brands, virtually all were built with heavy adver-
tising on television, in magazines, or at retail. These com-
panies grew their brands back when it was easy and cheap
to do it the old-fashioned way. These brands maintain
their lead, blocking newcomers who don’t have the same
vacuum to fill.
   Of the remaining thirty brands, half were built almost
entirely through word of mouth (Hewlett-Packard,
Oracle, Nintendo, SAP, Canon, IKEA, Sun, Yahoo!,
Ericsson, Motorola, Amazon.com, Prada, Starbucks, Polo
Ralph Lauren, and Armani). While some of these
brands — like Lauren and Sun— spent heavily on print
advertising, it’s pretty clear that without a remarkable
product and significant word of mouth, they wouldn’t have
acquired the value and cachet they now hold.
   That leaves just fifteen brands. Some, like Cisco
Systems and Microsoft, acquired their value through mar-
ket power (either by acquiring competitors or bullying
them out of the way). Others, like Apple, used both
remarkable advertising and word of mouth. That leaves
only a tiny handful (Compaq, Dell, Nike, The Gap, MTV,
AOL, and perhaps Nivea) that built their brands the old-
fashioned way. I’d argue that MTV doesn’t really count
since they advertised only on their own channel, which
people found through word of mouth.
   Notice that just one of the companies on the list is the
product of the last ten years of media excess. Only AOL
was able to spend hundreds of millions of dollars and
convert that investment into a valuable brand. All the
other companies that tried, failed.
   So the question you need to ask yourself is this: If only
6 percent of the most valuable brands used the now-

120
                       Purple Cow

obsolete strategy of constantly reminding us about their
sort-of-ordinary product, why do you believe this strategy
will work for you?

   The big question is this: Do you want to grow?
  If you do, you need to embrace the Cow. You can
  maintain your brand the old way, but the only
  route to healthy growth is a remarkable product.

                                                       121
                         Seth Godin

Brainstorms
While we can’t predict what’s going to be remarkable next
time, we can realize that there aren’t too many unexplored
areas of innovation – just unexplored combinations. Here’s
an annotated checklist. With just thirty-four examples, it’s not
complete by any means, but it might get your juices flowing.
  While this checklist may elicit an “of course,” I wonder
how many struggling products have actually been through
this analysis. Is your most recent offering the mostest of any
of these attributes?
                            
When I went to buy some new tools, I did some-
thing I almost never do. I went to Sears. Why? Because
almost without exception, the people I like and trust who
spend a lot of time with tools told me that I couldn’t go
wrong with Craftsman. Why? Not because they’re beauti-
fully designed or easy to use. Solely because they last a long
time and are guaranteed forever. KitchenAid, on the
other hand, has lost legions of sneezing bakers because the
company decided to save money in the way they make their
mixers. Online bulletin boards are filled with stories of
frustrated people who quit the brand after going through
three or four mixers. In both cases, the stories are based
on remarkable durability (or the lack thereof).
                            
The oxo line of kitchen gadgets sells to people who
don’t even cook. Why? Because these non-cooks have vis-
ited the kitchens of people who do cook. And those cook-
ing sneezers (always open to something that would make
their lives in the kitchen better) were delighted to show off
their funky-looking (and very, very functional) carrot
peelers, lime zesters, and ice cream scoopers.

122
                         Purple Cow

Why did Yahoo! defeat AltaVista, Lycos, and Infoseek
in the race to become the center of the Internet? And how
did Yahoo! forget that lesson and let Google do it again?
In each case, Yahoo! and Google had the same things
going for them. Unbelievably simple interface (for the
first few years of Google, there were only two buttons – and
one of them was “I feel lucky”). Fast loading. No decisions.
When people asked someone else where to go to get what
they needed online, the recommendation was simple.
   Here’s a great Google story I heard from Mark Hurst: It
turns out that the folks at Google are obsessed with the
email they get criticizing the service. They take it very seri-
ously. One person writes in every once in a while, and he
never signs his name. According to Marissa Meyer at
Google, “Every time he writes, the e-mail contains only a
two-digit number. It took us awhile to figure out what he
was doing. Turns out he’s counting the number of words
on the home page. When the number goes up, like up to
52, it gets him irritated, and he e-mails us the new word
count. As crazy as it sounds, his e-mails are helpful,
because it has put an interesting discipline on the UI
team, so as not to introduce too many links. It’s like a scale
that tells you that you’ve gained two pounds.” (Yahoo! has
more than five hundred words on their home page now.)
                            
A long time ago, Hertz and Avis grew their brands with
TV and print advertising. Today, it’s too late for their
competitors to catch up using the same technique. So
National and Alamo struggle. Enterprise Rental Car,
though, has an entirely different strategy. They’re not at
the airport and they don’t cater to business travelers.
Instead, they created a new Purple Cow – they’ll pick you
up with a rental car when your regular car is in the shop or
totaled in an accident.

                                                            123
                          Seth Godin

  Targeting this niche seems obvious, but the ability to be
radically different has also made them profitable and fast-
growing. Safe, it seems, is risky.
                             

The Bloomberg, as it’s known, should have been
replaced by the Internet, yet this customized computer is
on the desk of just about every important player on Wall
Street. After all, the Net has access to huge amounts of
information, it’s relatively easy to use, there are multiple
sources for it, and it’s largely free. The Bloomberg, on the
other hand, is very expensive (more than a $1,000 a
month) and very tricky to use. And that’s why traders and
other investors insist on it. They’ve gone through the pain
of learning how to use it, and they’re not prepared to give
up that expertise.
                             
Why does Ted Leonsis, billionaire owner of the
Washington Wizards, stay at the Four Seasons in
Manhattan? I mean, he could stay anywhere he wants to. As
best as I can tell, he stays there because the entire staff at the
café knows how to bring him his iced tea. In a tall thin glass,

124
                         Purple Cow

with ice, with a little carafe of hyper-sweet sugar water on
the side. He doesn’t ask for it; they just bring it. Every per-
son who meets with Ted at the hotel notices it. I think it
makes Ted happy that his friends notice it. Having some-
thing personalized can make one feel special.
                            
L.L. Bean can sell mail-order clothes to people who
don’t trust mail order. It’s the guarantee that makes it
work. Take a pair of pants, light them on fire, send in the
ashes, and L.L. Bean will refund your money. Stories like
that make it easy for a sneezer to spread the word.
                            
What kind of motorcycle does Shaquille O’Neal
own? Jesse Gregory James is a maker of custom motorcy-
cles – giant, $100,000 bikes. Each motorcycle is hand-
made, months in the making, and very, very profitable.
And there’s a multi-year waiting list. Someone who can
afford a motorcycle that costs this much wants (and prob-
ably deserves) to have it made just for him. The act of
making something very expensive and very custom is in
itself remarkable.
                            
The Hummer is too big, too wide, too ugly, and too
inefficient to be a car. It doesn’t belong on public roads.
It annoys most of the people who come in contact with it.
Except, of course, for the people who buy it. Most of them
don’t need to suddenly go off-road and climb steep, sandy
hills. Hummer drivers just like annoying the rest of us.
They enjoy driving a truly remarkable vehicle.
                            
Why do movie executives fly halfway across the world
to the Cannes Film Festival? While the parties are fun, they
can’t possibly make up for the inconvenience and invest-

                                                            125
                         Seth Godin

ment of time and money. The reason is simple – the execu-
tives know that something remarkable will happen there.
Some movie, some director, some star will make news. The
movie executives will discover something new, and that’s why
they go. How can your product make news? (Note that
there’s a big difference between making the news and mak-
ing news. Forcing your way onto TV with publicity hype is
not much of a long-term strategy. It works a lot better when
you’ve actually got something to say.)
                            
Where did my son go to get his new pet? Well, type in
“frog pet” on Google and you’ll find growafrog.com, the
Web site for a twenty-year-old company that does just one
thing: it sells pet tadpoles (soon to be frogs) in little plas-
tic aquariums. My son has already told twenty other
friends about these guys, and the little booklet of frog lore
they include makes it even easier to share. (Did you know
that some of the frogs they sell live to be seventeen years
old?) This company’s obsessive focus on this niche made
them the obvious choice.
   Just like the two stores in New York: one is called Just
Bulbs; the other is called Just Shades. No, they’re not
related. No, they’re not near each other. But yes, they’re
pretty remarkable.
                            
Yes, you’ve heard it about Volvo before, but the
fact remains that a tiny country created a car with a prof-
itable niche because the country made it so easy for sneez-
ers to sell to those who didn’t realize what they were miss-
ing. The fact that the Volvo was widely considered to be ugly
was the perfect conversation starter. The fact that you’ve
heard this story a hundred times before proves that it works.
                            
126
                        Purple Cow

Do you remember the long box? A ten-inch-long
sleeve of cardboard, it encased CDs for years. Record com-
panies thought the extra cardboard would give them more
marketing space, while retailers figured they would cut down
on theft. Some artists, though, complained. In addition to
consumers’ hating the packaging, the artists pointed out that
millions of trees were being needlessly killed to print this
disposable packaging, and landfills were filling up with the
debris. One of the reasons this campaign succeeded was that
it wasn’t a very big concession for anyone along the way. It
was easy news to spread, and easier still for big companies to
appear to be environmentally sensitive by giving in to the
threats of boycott and ceasing production of the long box.
                           
While computers are the obvious example of how
technology can make a product remarkable, how about
handmade watches? Some watch manufacturers charge
upwards of $50,000 for devices that can be wound just
once a week, track the phases of the moon, and automati-
cally remember leap year fifty years in the future. Amaz-
ingly, the more complex the watch, the longer the waiting
list. The most complicated watch built today has a waiting
list of more than two years. No, it’s not a mass-market
item, but it sells because it’s complicated (if the buyer
wanted accuracy and features, he’d buy a $50 Casio).
                           
Comedian Buddy Hackett learned a long time ago
that when he didn’t have anything funny to say, he should
just swear. People liked that. Today, we see movies and
records and books and bars that succeed just because they
intentionally cross the boundaries of good taste. The best
example is John Waters. His first movies were so gross,
most people consider them unwatchable. Not the early
adopters with a taste for the bizarre. They rushed to tell

                                                           127
                        Seth Godin

their friends, and Waters’ reputation was made. Today,
Hairspray, based on his movie of the same name, is the
hottest play on Broadway. Many of those who tread a more
culturally acceptable path to get to the same end have not
succeeded nearly as well.
                           
A restaurant near my house hired a teenager to wear
a clown suit and do magic tricks and create balloon ani-
mals all weekend, every weekend. The result is pretty pre-
dictable. Kids told kids, parents told parents, and the
restaurant was packed with families every weekend. It wasn’t
hard, but it was remarkable.
                           
When Best Buy changed their product (the store!)
and got rid of the commissions, that set the stage for a
growth spurt that took them from $250 million in annu-
al revenue to more than $23 billion. A retailer does more
than just move boxes. A retailer sells, with the environment
and the people who work there. Best Buy made their sales tech-
nique so different it was noteworthy.
                           
Other than its much fabled open-source origins,
why does Linux have such a following? One reason is that
becoming a Linux user requires a real commitment. Linux
is hard to install, hard to use without a lot of practice, and
not easy to integrate into a traditional corporate environ-
ment. All of these hurdles, though, created a devoted and
loyal core. This group realized that as they got more and
more people to invest their time in using and supporting
the product, the operating system would get better, invest-
ments would be made in software and user interfaces, and
internal issues would disappear. The flaws in the product

                           
itself created an asset.

128
                         Purple Cow

Most towns have one: a steakhouse that serves a three-
pound steak for $50-and then refunds your money if you
can finish it. Word gets out. People come. Not to eat the
steak (that would be stupid) but because the message behind
it is fairly remarkable. The same thing happens with ski
resorts with very difficult slopes and with video services that
let you rent as many DVDs as you want.
                            
There’s more risk than ever in our lives. That’s one
reason so many businesses ship Federal Express. When
L.L. Bean switched, it wasn’t so much because people
wanted their orders delivered faster. It was because the
certainty of the delivery date and the ability to track the
package in real time gave people needed assurance.
                            
Do you really think that any one of the ten people
who will buy out the entire production run of the world’s
fastest motorcycle (0 to 250 miles an hour in 14 seconds)
will ever take it to top speed? Of course not. But for
$250,000, they sure could. Is your product the best at
anything worth measuring?
                            
What happens when part of your product or service
breaks? How soon before someone shows up to fix it?
When my PowerBook broke, I called Apple. Two hours
later, an Airborne Express truck pulled up with a card-
board shipping box and took my Mac away – and they
brought it back 48 hours later! Wow.
   This isn’t a stunt, nor is it foolish altruism. Apple prof-
its by selling AppleCare (insurance that they’ll be there if
your machine breaks) and they enjoy the word of mouth
that a story like this generates.

                                                            129
                        Seth Godin

There is actually a contest for the loudest car stereo.
These stereos are so loud that you can’t get into the car –
you’d go deaf. The current champ is eight times louder than
a 747 jet. Yet people spend hundreds of thousands of dol-
lars in their quest for the loudest stereo. And thousands of
other people buy the winning brands – not to play them
quite that loud, but just to know they could.
                           
At the other end of the spectrum, people pay
extraordinary premiums for the last decibel of noise
reduction if they believe it matters to them. Quiet win-
dows, buildings, neighborhoods, laptops, cars– in each
case, the amount spent for each incremental decibel of
noise reduction is often double what the previous one
cost. Watch one traveler busy selling a seatmate on the
Bose noise-limiting headphones, and you can see the
ideavirus at work.
                           
IKEA is not just another cheap furniture store.
There are plenty of places to buy stuff that’s cheap. But
most of them can’t offer the brilliant combination of form
and function you get for the same price at IKEA. Last
year, the chain sold more than 25 percent of all the furni-
ture sold in its price range in Europe and the United
States. That stunning figure isn’t the result of advertising.
It’s clearly a response to IKEA’s market-beating combina-
tion of quality and price.
                           
Lottery tickets offer low investment and a big win.
When the jackpot hits record levels ($100 million is
remarkable money, even to a millionaire), ticket sales go up
exponentially. Ironically, the odds of winning are even
worse than usual, so buying when there’s a $20 million jack-

130
                       Purple Cow

pot is the smarter of two dumb choices. So why do sales go
up? Because the remarkable nature of the larger jackpot gets
people talking about it and dreaming about winning.
                           
Why do some people smoke unfiltered cigarettes or
drink high-proof alcohol? Maybe it’s the affiliation with
danger and self-destruction. The extreme nature of the
product makes it appealing to this audience.
                           
When a product or service is about risk avoidance,
a solution that minimizes that risk is worth talking about.
If I were a lawyer, I’d specialize in a very narrow niche,
becoming the best in the world at defending a certain kind
of lawsuit. If your company was the victim of one of these
lawsuits, whom would you hire? The specialist who does
nothing but defend (and win) cases like this, or your local
corporate firm? When someone has a problem like this,
he is extremely open to external marketing messages, and
he will seek out and usually find someone who presents
him with the lowest possible downside.
                           
Why go kiteboarding? I mean, you can ski or snow-
board or windsurf or water-ski. Yet kiteboarding is one of
the fastest-growing sports today. Strap a surfboard to your
feet, hold onto a huge kite, and start racing across the
water at thirty miles an hour. Unless, of course, you get
dragged along the beach. So dangerous, it’s worth talking
about. So dangerous that those who seek out new and dan-
gerous sports are drawn to it.
                           
If you’ve ever been to Sotheby’s or a Soho art
gallery, you’ll notice that almost without exception, the
men and women working there are truly beautiful. Not

                                                         131
                        Seth Godin

just beautiful on the inside, but really good looking. I
wonder why that is. What would happen if your nuts-and-
bolts plumbing supply company hired a beautiful male
model as a receptionist? People would talk.
                           
Speeding through the airport the other day, I
noticed that the clothing worn by just about everyone
working at every concession was totally unremarkable. Why
not dress the folks at the ice cream stand in pink and white
stripes and bow ties? “Hey, did you see that?”
                           
Easily overlooked, but just as important as physical
appearance, is the voice that people hear. I respond dif-
ferently when I hear James Earl Jones welcoming me to
Directory Assistance. Moviefone succeeded in its early
days largely as a result of curious people calling to hear
what their friends called “that annoying voice.”
                           
I love my doctor. Not just because I’m not sick (which
is partly his doing) but also because he spends so much
time with me when I visit. I don’t think Ray does this as a
marketing tool – I think he really and truly cares. And it’s
remarkable. Remarkable enough that I’ve referred a dozen
patients to him.
                           
No one will argue you with you if you claim that
Wal-Mart is the biggest, most profitable, scariest retailer on
earth. So, when Wal-Mart was frantically trying to catch up
with Amazon.com, what did they have plastered on a banner
in their offices? “You can’t out-Amazon Amazon.”
  It’s a great insight. Even this mighty retailer realized
that just copying Amazon’s strengths wouldn’t be suffi-
cient. Once someone stakes out a limit, you’re foolish to
132
                       Purple Cow

attempt a pail imitation. The Democrats will never be able
to out-Republican the Republicans, Reebok can’t out-
Nike Nike and JetBlue didn’t try to out-American
American. You have to go where the competition is not.
The farther the better.
                          
Does the Postal Service hire annoying people or just
train them to be that way? How many times have you told
someone about a bad experience at the Motor Vehicles
bureau? It’s not expensive, and if you’re not really and
truly a monopoly, it might be worth investing in excep-
tionally nice people as a way of being remarkable.
                          
Everyone knows that the record business is dying, that
no smart entrepreneur would start a real business trying to
make money in music. Don’t tell that to Micah Solomon,
David Glasser or Derek Sivers. Micah runs Oasis CD
Duplication, which is obsessed with making CDs for inde-
pendent musicians. One example of his remarkable
behavior: He regularly sends a sampler CD to every
important radio station in the country – and the CD only
includes music from his customers.
   David Glasser and his partners run Airshow Mastering,
which creates cutting edge CD masters for Sony – and for
individual musicians as well. He does an amazing job in
helping musicians realize their dreams.
   And where do both companies send these musicians
when the records are ready to be sold? To CDBaby.com,
the best record store on the web. Derek sells the work of
literally thousands of independent acts, doing it with such
success (and treating his partners with such respect) that
word of mouth is the only advertising he needs to attract
new musicians and new customers.

                                                        133
                          Seth Godin

  A quick visit to CDBaby.com, oasiscd.com and airshow-
mastering.com will make it clear just how remarkable
these three companies are. They understand that they have
a choice between distinct or extinct.
  Will any business that targets a dying business succeed?
Of course not. But these three prove that targeting a thriv-
ing niche in a slow-moving industry can work – if you’re
prepared to invest what it takes to be remarkable.

                             
At Brock’s Restaurant in Stamford, Connecticut,
here’s what it says on the menu (in large type):

               SORRY-NO SHARING SALAD BAR
      In order to keep our overall pricing reasonable, it is
      important that an honor system of no sharing of the
      salad bar be respected. Should you change your mind
      and wish to enjoy the salad bar, it is only 2.95 with
      a sandwich, burger or entree. For your understand-
      ing and cooperation we thank you.

  Compare this to the wine policy at a restaurant called
Frontière. The owner puts an open bottle of wine on every
table, and at the end of the meal you tell the waiter how
many glasses you consumed. The honor system.
  Which is more worthy of positive comment? Marketing
benefits aside, which leads to more incremental profit?
(Hint: Two glasses of wine pay for a whole bottle at wholesale!)

                             
Godin’s third law of restaurant dining points out that
the friendliness of the staff at a pizza place is inversely
proportional to the quality. At Johnny’s Pizza in Mt.

134
                        Purple Cow

Vernon, NY, they were still yelling at me after five years of
being a regular. At Louis’s hamburger shack in New
Haven, they will absolutely refuse to serve you ketchup
with your hamburger – a fact well-chronicled on Web sites
and by word of mouth. And of course, Al Yeganeh, a won-
derful, misunderstood soup entrepreneur, has people
waiting in line for hours to buy his Lobster Bisque.
Misread the rules, and no soup for you. Could you
improve the fame of your retail establishment by creating
stupid rules and hiring truly mean waiters? Sure, proba-
bly.

    Explore the limits. What if you’re the cheapest,
   the fastest, the slowest, the hottest, the coldest, the
   easiest, the most efficient, the loudest, the most
   hated, the copycat, the outsider, the hardest, the
   oldest, the newest, the . . . most! If there’s a limit,
   you should (must) test it.

                                                          135
                          Seth Godin

Salt is Not Boring-Eight More Ways to
Bring the Cow to Work
For fifty years, Morton has made salt a boring commodi-
ty. People at their headquarters would happily agree with
you that there was no possibility of a Purple Cow in this
business.
   Good thing the folks who create handmade salt from
seawater in France didn’t know that. They regularly get
$20 a pound for their amazing salt. The Hawaiians have
just entered the market as well, creating a stir at gourmet
restaurants. Now, ordinarily boring Diamond Kosher salt
is looking at millions of dollars in increased annual sales-
because their salt tastes better on food.

       Is your product more boring than salt?
      Unlikely. So come up with a list of ten ways to
      change the product (not the hype) to make it appeal
      to a sliver of your audience.

       Think small. One vestige of the TV-industrial
      complex is a need to think mass. If it doesn’t appeal
      to everyone, the thinking goes, it’s not worth it. No
      longer. Think of the smallest conceivable market,
      and describe a product that overwhelms it with its
      remarkability. Go from there.

       Outsource. If the factory is giving you a hard time
      about jazzing up the product, go elsewhere. There
      are plenty of job shops that would be delighted to
      take on your product. After it works, the factory will
      probably be happy to take the product back.

       Build and use a permission asset. Once you have
      the ability to talk directly to your most loyal cus-
      tomers, it gets much easier to develop and sell

136
                    Purple Cow

amazing things. Without the filters of advertising,
wholesalers, and retailers, you can create products
that are far more remarkable.

 Copy. Not from your industry, but from any
other industry. Find an industry more dull than
yours, discover who’s remarkable (it won’t take
long), and do what they did.

 Go one more. Or two more. Identify a competi-
tor who’s generally regarded as at the edges, and
outdo them. Whatever they’re known for, do that
thing even more. Even better, and even safer, do
the opposite of what they’re doing.

 Find things that are “just not done” in your
industry, and do them. JetBlue almost instituted a
dress code for passengers. They’re still playing with
the idea of giving a free airline ticket to the best-
dressed person on the plane. A plastic surgeon
could offer gift certificates. A book publisher could
put a book on sale. Stew Leonard’s took the straw-
berries out of the little green plastic cages and let
the customers pick their own – and sales doubled.

 Ask, “Why not?” Almost everything you don’t do
has no good reason for it. Almost everything you
don’t do is the result of fear or inertia or a histor-
ical lack of someone asking, “Why not?”

                                                     137
                           Seth Godin

Brand and Company Index
3M 119                             BP 119
                                   Braun 49
A                                  Brock’s Restaurant 134
Accenture 119                      Budweiser 61, 119
adidas 119                         Buick 49
Airborne Express 129               Burger King 104, 119
Airshow Mastering 133              Burton 99
Alamo 123                          Butterball 90
Allstate 95
AltaVista 123                      C
Altoids 91                         Cadillac 48
Amazon.com 38, 119, 120, 132       Canon 119, 120
Amex 119                           Cap Gemini 25
AOL 64, 119, 120                   Cap’n Crunch 14, 15, 19
Apple 48, 87, 99, 119, 120, 129    Cascade 15
Archer Daniels Midland 15          Casio 127
Archie McPhee 86                   Caterpillar 119
Armani 119, 120                    CDBaby.com 133, 134
AT&T 119                           Chanel 119
Avis 123                           Charmin 15
Avon 119                           Cheer 15
                                   Cisco Systems 119, 120
B                                  Citibank 119
Bacardi 119                        Coca-Cola 23, 119
Band-Aid 74                        Colgate 119
Barbie 19, 119                     Colgate-Palmolive 33
Battling Tops 19                   Comedy Central 118
Beetle 18, 19                      Compaq 119, 120
Ben & Jerry’s 75                   Cover Girl 15
Best Buy 105, 128                  Crest 15
BIC 61                             Curad 74
Blair’s After Death Hot Sauce 79
Bloomberg 124                      D
BMW 119                            Danone 119
Boar’s Breath 79                   Dario Cecchini 65
Boeing 119                         Dave’s Insanity 79
Bold 15                            Dawn 15
Bose 130                           Dell 119, 120
Bounce 15                          Diamond Kosher salt 136
Bounty 15                          Disney 65, 119

138
                            Purple Cow

Downy 15                          Head & Shoulders 15
Dr. Bronner’s 19, 68, 69          Heineken 119
Dr. Bukk 19                       Heinz 119
Drugstore.com 49                  Herbal Essences 15
Ducati 38                         Herman Miller 53, 54
Duracell 119                      Hertz 119, 123
Dutch Boy 81, 82                  Hewlett-Packard 119, 120
                                  Honda 119
E                                 Honeywell 19
Enterprise Rental Car 123         Hooters 87, 88, 102
Ericsson 119, 120
Excedrin 19                       I
                                  IBM 119
F                                 IKEA 106, 107, 119, 120, 130
Fast Company 79, 80, 117          Infoseek 123
Federal Express 119, 129          Intel 119
Fidelity 61                       Interbrand 119
Folgers 15                        Irish Spring 15
Ford 90, 119                      Ivory 15
Four Seasons 20, 124
Frontière 134                     J
                                  Jack Daniel’s 119
G                                 Jeep 15, 80
Gap 119, 120                      JetBlue 19, 38, 85, 86, 96, 106,
GE 119                                    133, 137
General Foods 99                  John Hancock 15
General Mills 100                 Johnnie Walker 119
Gillette 119                      Johnny’s Pizza 134
GM 101                            Johnson & Johnson 55, 119
Goldman Sachs 119                 J. Peterman 70, 118
Google 35, 36, 38, 123, 126       JPMorgan 119
growafrog.com 126                 Just Bulbs 126
Gucci 119                         Just Shades 126

H                                 K
Häagen-Dazs 89                    Kellogg’s 100, 119
Hallmark 108, 109                 KFC 119
Hard Candy 100                    Kleenex 119
Hard Manufacturing 61             Kmart 23, 55, 113
Harley 119                        Kodak 119
Hasbro 96                         KPMG 22
HBO 38                            Kraft 8, 119

                                                                 139
                             Seth Godin

Krispy Kreme 83, 84                Mr. Clean 15
                                   MTV 119, 120
L
Levi’s 119                         N
Lillian Vernon 118                 National 123
Linux 19                           Naxos 40
Lionel Poilane iii, 58             Neiman Marcus 20
L.L. Bean 125, 129                 Nescafé 119
Logitech 60                        Nestlé 119
L’Oreal 119                        Nice ’n Easy 15
Lost in Boiling Lake 79            Nike 33, 119, 120, 133
Louis’s hamburger shack 135        Nintendo 20, 119, 120
Louis Vuitton 119                  Nissan 98
Lycos 123                          Nivea 119, 120
                                   Nokia 20, 93, 119
M                                  Noxzema 15
Mad Cat 79                         NyQuil 15
Mad Dog 357 79
Mad Dog Inferno 79                 O
Magic Cards 19                     Oasis CD Duplication 133
Marlboro 19, 119                   Oil of Olay 15
Marriott 64                        Oracle 119, 120
Marvel Comics 64                   Otis 25, 26
Max Factor 15                      Outback Steakhouse 19
Maxwell House 64, 95               OXO 122
McDonald’s 19, 103, 119
MCI 97                             P
McIntosh 75                        Pain 100% 79
Melinda’s XXXX 79                  Palm 49, 64
Mercedes 119                       Pampers 15
Merck 119                          Panasonic 119
Merrill Lynch 15, 119              Patagonia 99
Microsoft 119, 120                 Pepsi 119
Miss Clairol 15                    Pepto-Bismol 15
Mobil 119                          Pfizer 119
Moët & Chandon 119                 Philips 119
Morgan Stanley 119                 Phoenix 44
Morton 136                         Pizza Hut 119
Motel 6 19, 20, 106                Poland Spring 96
Motorola 93, 104, 119, 120         Polo Ralph Lauren 119, 120
Moviefone 132                      Prada 119, 120
MP3 19                             Prell 19, 68

140
                           Purple Cow

Pringles 15                         Tide 15
Procter & Gamble 14, 15, 27, 33     Tiffany 87, 119
Prozac 19                           Time 119
Prudential 15                       Toyota 119
                                    Trailer Trash 80
Q                                   Travelers Insurance 97
Quaker 14
Quisp 95                            U
                                    United Airlines 19
R                                   United States Postal Service 77,
Ray’s Pizza 46                                                   133
Reebok 133
Reuters 119                         V
Revlon 14                           Vanguard 38, 61, 99
Rolex 119                           Vicks
                                    Vidal Sassoon 15
S                                   Volvo 126
Safeguard 15                        VW 18, 19, 119
Sam Adams 61
Samsung 119                         W
SAP 119, 120                        Wal-Mart 20, 27, 55, 106, 117,
                                               132
Satan’s Revenge 80                  Wall Street Journal 21, 22, 53,
Scharffen Berger 99                                     119
Scope 15                            Wendy’s 38
Sears 113, 122                      Wheaties 95
Secret 15                           Wisk 15, 95
Shell 119                           Wrigley’s 119
SiteSpecific 53
Smirnoff 119                        X
Sony 40, 119, 133                   Xerox 119
Sotheby’s 131
SoundScan 43                        Y
Starbucks 19, 38, 63, 64, 86, 96,   Yahoo! 35, 42, 64, 119, 120, 123
           99, 119, 120             Yamaha 61
Stew Leonard 114, 137
Sun 119, 120                        Z
Sweet Mama Jamma’s Mojo Juice       Zara 59
79
                                    Zespri 15, 62
T                                   Zest 15
Tampax 15
Target 113

                                                                  141
                       Seth Godin

What Would Orwell Say?
A few clip-’n’-save slogans for you:

                      
      Don’t Be Boring

                      
          Safe Is Risky

                      
      Design Rules Now

              Very Good
               Is Bad 
142
                           Purple Cow

About the author
Seth Godin is a professional speaker, a writer and an agent
of change. He’s the author of four worldwide bestsellers,
all of which you can find at www.sethgodin.com. His other
titles include Permission Marketing, Unleashing the Ideavirus, The Big
Red Fez and Survival Is Not Enough.
   Seth periodically hosts Purple Cow workshops at his loft
outside of New York, and you can find details about attend-
ing one (or having one at your office) at sethgodin.com.
   You can reach him by email at sethgodin@yahoo.com.
He doesn’t do consulting, but he does read all his mail.

                                                                  143
                        Seth Godin

More Information
To find out more information about Purple Cow, please
visit www.apurplecow.com. No, it won’t be a remarkable
multimedia experience, but hey, it’s free.
  This book is available for bulk sale. To inquire about
pricing for ten or more copies (sold at a dramatic dis-
count, non-returnable), please send a note to
discount@apurplecow.com.
  Is your company stuck? Enmeshed in a post-TV-
Industrial-Complex funk? The only way to fix your com-
pany is to teach them about the Cow. Go ahead. Buy a
book for everyone.
  This book was designed by Red Maxwell and copyedited
by Catherine E. Oliver. Special thanks to the Lark brain-
trust: Karen Watts, Lisa DiMona and Robin Dellabough.
And to Julie Anixter, too. Helene & Alex Godin, Chris
Meyer, Alan Webber, Bill Taylor and Lynn Gordon were
kind enough to read the manuscript in the early stages.
Michael Cader helped brainstorm our remarkable distri-
bution strategy. Thanks!
  The only reason you’re holding the hardcover edition of
Purple Cow in your hands is the hard work of Adrian
Zackheim, Stephanie Land and Will Weisser at Portfolio.
Thanks, guys!
  As always, before this book was a book, it was a riff on my
blog, and readers of my blog read it first. You can sub-
scribe to my free blog (and find out what a blog is!) by
visiting www.sethgodin.com. Just click on my head.

144
                         Purple Cow

Drink a Purple Cow—for Free!
Silk, the milk-free soy beverage that’s enjoying enormous
growth, is obviously a Purple Cow. How now?
   There’s not a lot of growth left in the milk business.
People who drink milk have already solved their milk-
drinking problem, and getting nonmilk drinkers to start
is almost impossible. New products that act like old prod-
ucts won’t get very far, in this market or any other.
   Steve Demos, president and founder of White Wave,
realized that the secret was to be remarkable, so he put his
Silk soy milk in a milklike carton and placed it in the
refrigerator at mainstream grocery stores—and Silk sales
tripled almost overnight.
   If you’d like a free half gallon of Silk, just rip this page
out and mail it to me with a self-addressed stamped enve-
lope (or send me your receipt for buying this book). I’ll
send you a coupon (because the carton of Silk won’t fit in
the envelope). Just one more Purple benefit we bring to
you, our loyal reader. Offer good only while supplies last.
   Send it to: Seth Godin, Box 305, Irvington,
N.Y. 10533. For more of my riff on Silk, visit
www.apurplecow.com/silk.

                            
I Want to Share the News on how a company called
bzzagent worked behind the scenes to promote this book,
but that wouldn’t be timely enough. Instead, visit
www.apurplecow.com/bzz for the details.

                                                            145
