departmental chairpersons to plan assignments more carefully—to trade off among the conflicting pressures of professional development; client demands for quality, cost
effectiveness, and speed; and the preferences of the firm’s mem­ bers. Actively managed work assignment systems are not easy to imple­ ment: Unless composed of powerful
individuals, a committee may find it hard to enforce the discipline of routing staffing requests through the proper channels. Moreover, short-run pressures often force the
sacrifice of this longer-term goal. To make such a system work, there must be firmwide recognition of the need for it and broadbased commitment to its success. As in so much of
professional service firm management, developing this commitment is the responsibility of the firm’s leaders. COACHING Work assignments are, of course, only part of the story. A
junior professional may have received a rich and varied set of experiences, but this alone will not guarantee that he or she will learn the right skills. The difference is in the
ability to derive the correct lessons. What is needed to turn exposure into usable knowledge and skill is good coaching—guided experience. One senior professional puts it this way:
“If I want to help my people acquire the skills I have, I must get them involved in planning 158 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm the work, understanding how their task
fits in, and interpreting the discoveries made as the project unfolds. There is no use in their sitting in on client meetings unless I am prepared to discuss with them why I
handled myself as I did. They could too easily not realize the contextspecific factors that affect my decisions. I’m not trying to train them to Jo , I’m trying to train them to
think as I do.” Being a good coach or mentor is not easy. It takes a genuine interest in helping juniors improve, not just in appraising their performance. The coach has to ensure
that assignments provide stretching but real­ izable challenges, and that feedback on what was done right and what needs work is detailed and prompt. The professional quoted above
takes his coaching responsibilities seriously. Yet all too often one hears young professionals complain about a lack of attention and specific, helpful advice from the partners
they work for. In turn, partners too frequently view these requests as unreasonable, or at least as less pressing and less important than the other (very real) demands on their
time. Clearly, coaching is a time-intensive investment in the long-run health of the firm. Frequently, however, the firm’s organization, struc­ ture, method of performance
appraisal, and culture discourage men­ toring. Other responsibilities—business getting and servicing of clients— are usually more visible and have quicker “paybacks” to the
individual. For example, most partner-compensation systems reward short-term business getting and billable hours more than the time spent working with junior staff. The
professions, no less than industrial companies, find it all too easy to sacrifice the long-term profitability— building actions in the name of short-term pressures. Accordingly,
coaching is not recognized and rewarded, and it tends to fall to those who find it personally fulfilling or who value the future benefits to the firm more than their own short-term
self-interest. Coaching can yield short-run payoffs. In the fee-sensitive world of the professions, firms can ill afford write-offs of professional time resulting from poorly
trained juniors taking too long to accomplish tasks that a more skilled professional could do in a fraction of the time. Clients are as prepared as ever to pay the high fees of the
supe­ rior professional. What they are less willing to do is subsidize ineffi­ How to Build Human Capital 159 cient training of junior staff. The days when juniors could be trained
by bringing them along to client meetings as “bag carriers” (and bill­ ing their time to the client) are gone. It’s still an excellent coaching device (accompanied by appropriate
debriefing), but firms must view it as their own investment in training. Attention to coaching is no longer an option at many firms, it is mandatory. In a rapidly growing firm, the
need is obvious. But even in a firm that anticipates slow growth and high turnover, training is im­ portant: The firm must maintain its attractiveness to potential asso­ ciates so
they will join in spite of diminished partnership prospects. One of the best ways to accomplish this is by providing superior train­ ing, which makes it worth having been at the
firm even if one doesn’t make partner. TEACHING PARTNERS The need to develop skills does not cease on becoming a partner. Senior partners should continue to coach junior partners.
The results of failure to pass on senior-partner skills can be seen at many secondgeneration firms where client getting was the responsibility of the founders of the firm and
junior partners were charged with doing the work that the rainmakers brought in. With the rainmakers’ departure, the partnership is left without skills essential to the success of
the enterprise, and the younger (and now senior) partners are forced to develop the missing skills on their own, without the guidance of good coaches. At other firms, a failure to
develop human capital has resulted in a situation in which all of a firm’s expertise in a given area or for a certain class of clients is in the head of a single partner (or a
small group). A departure (for whatever reason) leaves the firm with little, if any, capability to serve the given markets. ADDING TO THE KNOWLEDGE BASE I have focused to this
point on skills already possessed by the firm. However, even more important in building human capital is adding to the firm’s skill and knowledge. A firm should be constantly
seeking to increase its understanding of client industries, to improve service, and 16 0 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm to add to technical capabilities. As obvious as
this need is, it is fre­ quently neglected. In a variety of contexts, I have asked members of professional ser­ vice firms to write down what they have learned from their
activities over the past year that has made them better at what they do—to identify something they learned about serving clients, managing projects, or approaching certain matters
in a new way. In many cases, this has proven a difficult exercise. The professionals seem to have been too busy rushing from project to project to stop and reflect on their
experiences. They say that they feel they have learned something, but they cannot either identify or communicate what it is. This doesn’t mean they haven’t learned it— but it does
mean the experience has not been converted into knowledge that can be shared. One mechanism for sharing knowledge is provided by a prominent consulting firm: Every Monday morning
all professional staff, senior and junior, attend a one-hour meeting. At each session one staff mem­ ber presents a case his team has worked on and describes how they handled it,
what new approaches were attempted, how they dealt with client problems, and so on. In brief, the staffer reports on what was learned on a recent matter. Discussion follows, with
junior and senior colleagues providing critical feedback and examining whether the ac­ tivities described offer anything useful to others in the firm. Each per­ son (or team) has
to take a turn at making a presentation. Since everyone knows this is coming up, each is forced to reflect continually on his or her experiences; thus, each is more likely to
succeed in con­ verting the knowledge available from his experiences into a shared resource. In addition, such meetings provide an opportunity for the senior partners, through the
questions they ask, to communicate the diag­ nostic process that is a large part of their professional skill. (“Did you try .. . ?” “How did the client respond to . . . ?” What
would have happened if . . . ?) Specific client or industry knowledge can be rapidly communicated to others who may find it useful. And the firm ensures that everyone knows who is
working on what. In small, close-knit firms, sharing of experience and knowledge takes place informally, over drinks and in the corridors, and everyone knows whom to call for
assistance. In larger (particularly departmen­ talized or multioffice) firms, leveraging the collective skills of the mem­ How to Build Human Capital 161 bers is more complicated.
For this reason, some firms have created client-industry committees that cut across functional or disciplinary boundaries. One barrier to this kind of effort, however, is created
by many of the common systems of rewarding and appraising profes­ sional performance. Most rely strongly on individual (or departmen­ tal) performance and thus discourage efforts
on the firm’s behalf. And even if such efforts are taken into account in compensation, they don’t afford the same status as client work does. A departmental structure can both help
and hinder knowledge shar­ ing and skill building. Placing professionals working in similar areas closer together forces them to interact. But it also reduces interaction with
professionals in different areas. For this reason, rather than or­ ganizing departments around functional professional disciplines, some firms are reorganizing to create groupings
where the opportu­ nities and need for sharing knowledge or getting new knowledge are greatest: small-business-client groupings, for example, or industrybased departments. Short of
this, other firms are starting interdisci­ plinary (or interoffice) committees to encourage communication between otherwise isolated professionals. MANAGING THE PROJECT MIX Perhaps
the most important decisions about managing the develop­ ment of human capital are those made in selecting client engagements. If professional skill and knowledge are developed
through experience, then the best way for the professional firm to improve its skill base is to take on projects that not only exploit the firm’s existing skills but provide for
further development. This goal is harder to accomplish than it would at first appear. “Frontier-type” projects can be among the least profitable that the firm undertakes. They are
among the least leveraged, requiring a high proportion of partner time. In addition, the firm may be forced to write off substantial amounts of time spent gearing up for the new
work. In contrast, continuing to practice in familiar areas allows the firm to capitalize on existing knowledge and skills, use its junior time more effectively (and more
profitably), and bill all full rates. Deciding which and how many “investment projects” the firm should undertake should be the task of a firmwide committee. Indi­ vidual partners
may feel an incentive to go after the most profitable 16 2 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm work (for which they will receive appropriate kudos and, probably,
compensation) at the expense of developing new skills and knowl­ edge. Moreover, the firm’s investments in its future should be part of a larger strategic plan. As noted at the
beginning of this chapter, the essence of strategic planning for the professional service firm is a clear sense of direction, not only as to which markets to serve and areas of
practice to engage in, but in terms of recognizing and developing the skills needed to succeed. CHAPTER 15 THE MOTIVATION CRISIS Motivating junior professionals is harder today
than it used to be, and it is more important to the success of the professional service firm. In the past, the up-or-out partnership structure of the typical profes­ sional service
firm provided all the motivating force that was required. Young professionals knew that if they worked hard and well, added continuously to their skills, and kept out of trouble,
they had a rea­ sonable chance of reaching for the brass ring: the generous rewards (financial and otherwise) of partnership. Personal attention by part­ ners to motivating juniors
was not necessary: the system, combined with the inherent ambition of young professionals, took care of the problem. A number of changes have occurred which make this “automatic”
motivational system cease to function as well as it did. Today’s young professional can see that the odds of making partner are lengthening in most firms. Talk of tougher (and
changing) partnership standards, prolonged times to partnership and permanent nonpartner positions are common in every profession. Rather than inspiring juniors to even more
strenuous efforts to be chosen as one of the select few, the length­ ening of the odds has the opposite effect: Juniors are increasingly ques­ tioning whether the game is worth the
candle. This attitude is being reinforced by both economic and cul­ tural trends. Given the competitive intensity of today’s professional 163 164 M anaging th e P rofessional S
ervice F irm world, the economic and psychological satisfaction of being a part­ ner at many (if not most) professional firms is not as great as once it was. It is not unusual to
hear partners make comments (in private conversation) such as “The practice of law [or accounting or med­ icine or consulting] is just not as much fun anymore. Today’s clients are
demanding, cynical about the value they receive, and treat you less as a professional and more like an ordinary vendor. The pace, intensity, and workload are greater than ever, and
the firm atmo­ sphere is competitive rather than supportive, and certainly less col­ legial. With all this concern about profitability, it seems like we’re being asked to work even
harder for what might turn out to be less money.” Similarly, in conversations with mid-level junior staff inside ac­ counting, consulting, law, and other professional firms, I
frequently hear things like “The closer I get to the firm’s partners, the less attrac­ tive their lives seem to be. I’m increasingly questioning whether what they have is what I
want. Professional life requires significant sacri­ fices, for both my spouse and me, and I’m no longer certain that the rewards are there to justify them.” Motivation levels are
also affected by the range of options open to young professionals, which is greater today than ever before. It is no longer considered unethical, or even unusual, for young
professionals to move between firms to advance their careers: In all professions, the mobility of individuals is on the rise. Satisfying, and frequently less intense, professional
careers are also increasingly attainable inside corporations, at salaries that are competitive and sometimes superior to those offered by professional service firms. In addition,
in-house professionals are no longer treated as second class citizens in the pro­ fessions: They continue to accumulate the power, responsibility, and respect that historically was
the preserve of the outside professional provider. Finally, we should note that not only is competition for clients in­ tensifying in the professions, but so is the competition for
talented young professionals. The baby-boom generation has passed through its apprenticeship years. Today’s twenty-five to thirty-five-year-olds are less numerous than their older
siblings, and recruiting, motivating, and holding onto the talented among them is becoming an increas­ ingly challenging task. The Motivation Crisis 165 THE IMPORTANCE OF
MOTIVATION IN PROFESSIONAL WORK A less than fully motivated work force is a competitive disadvantage for any business organization. For a professional firm, it is a death knell. In
few professional firms does the opportunity exist to achieve productivity and quality through the systems, procedures, close su­ pervision, and technology upon which industrial
companies have tra­ ditionally relied to control work pace and quality of output. For professional work, both productivity and quality are highly corre­ lated with the degree to
which the professional worker is engaged and committed to the task at hand. All professionals must have had the following experience: You are responsible for a piece of work about
which you just cannot seem to get excited. It is not that the task is too difficult, too easy, or even inherently uninteresting: just that the spark is not there. Nevertheless,
being dutiful, you sit at your desk and try to work at it, being neither productive nor doing your best work. Then the next morning, for some obscure reason, you begin to see the
work in a new light. You approach the work in a new way, and begin to delve into the problem. Gradually, what had appeared as mundane now has an element of interest, which grows
into curiosity, into fascination, and ultimately into involvement, effort, and produc­ tive, creative work. No amount of procedural work plans, tight su­ pervision or incentive
schemes could ever substitute for the inner motivation described here as a means to achieve productivity, quality and, not coincidentally, professional satisfaction in a job well
done. This link between motivation and performance in professional work results in an interesting and important phenomenon: the moti­ vation spiral (see Figure 15-1). The elements
of this spiral are as fol­ lows: high motivation leads to high productivity and quality, which leads to marketplace success. In turn, this results in economic success for the firm,
allowing the firm to be generous with its rewards, includ­ ing high compensation, good promotion opportunities, and challeng­ ing work. This atmosphere of ample reward breeds good
morale, which results in high motivation—and the cycle begins anew. Of course, the spiral effect also works, all too effectively, in reverse. Poor marketplace success means poor
economic success which means fewer rewards available to be shared. With lesser rewards, morale, 1 66 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm FIGURE 1 5 -1 The Motivation Spiral
and hence motivation, is low. This, inevitably and inexorably, leads to poor productivity and less than top quality, which reinforces the lack of marketplace success. In
professional work environments, success breeds success, and failure sets the scene for more failure. The spiral can begin, up or down, at any point. But once launched, its forces
are hard to resist. In consequence, the motivation crisis is a very serious problem for any firm that allows it to take hold. Addressing the problem of motivation in a professional
firm re­ quires an examination of all of the firm’s managerial systems and practices, from recruiting, through work assignments, performance appraisal and feedback, promotion, and
outplacement. However, the responsibility for achieving high motivation rests not only with those who exercise management functions within the firm: Changing the systems is only a
partial solution. Increasingly, it will become the re­ sponsibility of every partner to nurture the motivation level of junior staff by developing good supervisory skills.
MOTIVATION AND THE RECRUITING PROCESS If high motivation inside the professional firm can no longer be as­ sumed, but must be carefully nurtured, how then does one go about this?
There is a school of thought that asserts that it is difficult, if not impossible, to motivate anyone who does not have an inner drive, ambition, or energy level. The best that can
be done, according to this view, is, first, to avoid demotivating an ambitious individual (a result The Motivation Crisis 167 that many organizations, particularly those that are
slow-growing or bureaucratic, seem to achieve all too often); and second, to channel that drive into fruitful, productive efforts. Consequently, a significant component in
achieving the highly motivated organization is the re­ cruitment process itself, which, if it is to serve its purpose, must screen as much for drive, energy and ambition as it does
for intellectual ca­ pabilities and technical skill. In his Pulitzer prize-winning book The Soul o f a New M achine,1 Tracy Kidder describes the “signing on” process used by Tom
West, the manager of a team of young computer design engineers, to recruit and select the members of his team. Rather than make unfulfillable promises by, for example, minimizing
the scale of the effort required, or by presenting the project as one that would allow for a balanced life-style, Tom West took the opposite approach. He described accu­ rately the
high demands that the work would place on people, and presented the project as one that only the “best and the brightest,” the truly committed, would be suited for. Not
surprisingly, he screened out early those who would not be able to take the pace, and generated an enthusiasm and commitment to success from the very beginning. In their eagerness
to attract the junior professionals needed to staff engagements, I have observed many professional firms compromising the simple principle embedded in the Tom West story: that, to
serve the firm’s interests, it is more sensible to ensure that potential recruits truly know what they are letting themselves in for. Subtle misrepre­ sentations during the
recruiting process (about workloads, variety of work, extent of client contact, the degree of counseling, or any of a number of issues of concern to young professionals) may serve
to bring more people (bodies?) on board, but will quickly work against the firm’s interests as new recruits discover the realities of the practice: a prime example of how to
demotivate. One lawyer I know describes his firm’s recruiting process as fol­ lows: “I describe the real life of being a lawyer as best I can. Then I ask them ‘Do you really want
to be a lawyer?’ It’s amazing how many hesitate. And if they do, I don’t want them. I’d rather take someone with slightly less skill but with fire in their belly than a brilliant
but naive student who doesn’t understand what it’s all about.” Such an approach to recruiting may not produce the raw numbers that many firms think they need (because potentially
good candidates are ‘scared off’), but this is a less serious error than the opposite result: 168 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm bringing people on board who are not
temperamentally suited to to­ day’s practice realities. Furthermore, a professional firm should al­ ways have slightly more work than it can handle with its current staff putting
in a normal work week. Professionals flourish with a full workplate in an atmosphere of challenge. Expressions of discontent, complaints about the firm, and poor morale never
surface more fre­ quently than when there is not enough work to keep everyone occu­ pied. I have observed more firms get into trouble by attempting to hire too many people than by
hiring too few. THE PROFESSIONAL PSYCHE Are professionals different from other types of workers? Do they need to be managed (and motivated) in special ways? While it is difficult
to support the assertion that all professionals are different from all other workers, my work has led me to suspect that, when it comes to mo­ tivating forces, the average
professional is different from the average worker in other environments: a difference based, I suspect, not on such things as educational levels, but on the psyche of those who
choose professional careers. The typical professional is apt to describe him or herself in the following way: “I am the type of person who gets bored easily. I hate doing
repetitive sorts of work, and always like to seek out new chal­ lenges. Once I know I can do something, it tends not to satisfy me anymore.” This is, of course, a somewhat
self-flattering description. In my experience, however, it is an accurate one. Professionals, cer­ tainly the best among them, are constantly driven to seek out the new, the
unfamiliar, the challenging. The key word here is driven. People who feel the (neurotic?) need to constantly and repeatedly test their skills against unfamiliar problems with an
uncertain proba­ bility of success are frequently insecure, with a low sense of self-worth (never expressed in public), in constant need of external tests of their merits to prove
(to themselves) that they have still “got it.” Many professionals, I would assert, are prime examples of what is now termed “The Impostor Syndrome”— successful people who live in
constant dread that someone will, one day, tap them on the shoul­ der and say “We’ve found you out. You’ve been faking it all these years.” The Motivation Crisis 169 Because of
this, professionals tend to exhibit some clearly defined behavioral characteristics. They require continual challenge and per­ sonal growth to retain their interest, and are
impatient when they do not receive it. They constantly ask themselves, and their superiors, “Am I still on track?” Because of their insecurity, and the ambiguity that surrounds the
definition of “good work” in professional con­ texts, they need quick, repeated feedback on their performance to validate their efforts. They tend to be “scoreboard-oriented”:
eager for visible, well-defined measures of success that can reassure them (see Table 15-1). They like to have unambiguous goals to shoot at. From their need to achieve
self-respect by receiving the respect of oth­ ers, it follows that professionals value both autonomy in their work and involvement in policy decisions, whether on engagements or
firmmanagement matters. As much as these “rewards” are valued in their own right, they are valued more as signs that the organization trusts and respects them. MOTIVATION AND
SUPERVISORY STYLE From these observations flow some simple rules for maintaining mo­ tivation among professionals. You must provide clear goals; give prompt feedback and reward
performance quickly; treat them like T A BL E 1 5 - 1 Motivational “M aintainers” 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 Provide clear goals Give prompt feedback Reward performance quickly Treat
them like winners Involve in decision making Seek their opinions often Provide autonomy in work Hold accountable for results Tolerate impatience Provide varied work opportunities
Keep them aware of upcoming challenging goals Source: C. Bell, “ How to Create a High Performance Training Unit,” T r a in in g , October 1980, pp. 4 9 - 5 2 1 70 M anaging th e P
rofessional S ervice F irm winners, involving them in decision-making and seeking their opinion often; give them autonomy in their work, but hold them strictly ac­ countable for
results; be tolerant of their impatience, and provide va­ riety in their work experiences, always keeping the next challenging goal out front. As straightforward as these
principles may seem, they are fre­ quently missing in many professional work environments I have en­ countered. Unfortunately, the demotivating forces of ambiguous goals, lack of
variety, an absence of feedback, and postponed rewards are all too present in professional firms. The best method I have seen of preserving a high level of motivation in a
professional work group is the maintenance of a constant chal­ lenge to individuals composed of two key statements: “Yeah, you’re good . . . But how good are you?” Both parts of
this challenge are essential to its effectiveness. The first, “Yeah, you’re good,” is neces­ sary to speak to the typical professional’s delicate ego (“Treat them like winners” ).
The second part, “But how good are you?” is neces­ sary to keep the air of challenge needed to engage the professional’s determination to succeed (“Always keep the next goal out
front” ). A good example of the successful application of this management approach is also given in The Soul o f a New M achine. A young pro­ fessional suddenly had a flash of
brilliance about how to solve a par­ ticularly difficult problem that had appeared intractable. He rushed in to his supervisor, saying “I’ve solved it, I can have it finished in
two months!” (a short time in the world of computer design). Instead of saying “Terrific, well done. I’ll certainly remember you at bonus time,” the supervisor merely said, “Oh,
come on!” whereupon the young professional said “Well, maybe six weeks”—thus committing himself (an important point) to a self-imposed goal. Given the importance of eternal
challenge in a professional’s life, there is nothing so motivating as a statement like “ Bet you can’t do this.” One does not motivate a professional by being the “good guy” and
lessening the pressure: rather one does it by helping that individ­ ual accept the pressure as a challenge to his or her professional pride. Motivating professionals is somewhat
akin to being the coach of an athletic team: Both roles involve trying to bring out the best possible performance in talented individuals. The techniques of doing so are similar in
both environments. A good coach is simultaneously the The Motivation Crisis 171 chief cheerleader and chief critic: demanding and supportive (one without the other is
insufficient). When the high jumper is attempting to clear a given height, the coach is supportive and helpful. But as soon as that accomplishment is reached, up goes the bar by an
inch or two. The next goal, challenging but achievable, is kept out front. (Raising the bar by six or seven inches would clearly be demotivating. The scale of the challenge is
clearly important.) Good coaching requires that close attention be paid to the individ­ ual’s activities, so that specific, constructive advice can be made about how performance
can be improved. While good coaches rarely cosset those in their charge (the best coaches tend to be abrupt, demanding, and frequently SOBs), they clearly demonstrate a commitment
to helping their athletes: a commitment that is rewarded with high mo­ tivation and high performance. THE IMPORTANCE OF MEANING In a survey of research on the management of
professionals (“ Lead­ ership and the Professional,” in Scientists, Engineers and Organiza­ tions2), Morgan McCall notes that successful leaders spend less time worrying about
getting their (professional) subordinates to do some­ thing and more about supplying their subordinates with a meaningful understanding of what they are doing. This conclusion
matches my own observations and experience. As discussed above, a piece of pro­ fessional work can either strike me as incredibly stimulating, inspiring the energy and attention
necessary for creative, productive work, or it can appear meaningless, repetitive, and dull: It all depends on whether or not I can readily see where the challenge in the work
lies, and whether or not I feel that this piece of work is a “worthy” application of my talents. The implication of this is that, perhaps above all else, it is the role of the
supervisor of professionals to help create the conditions under which the forces of commitment, creativity, and involvement can be unleashed. The supervisor must help the
professional find the mean­ ing in the work to be done. In managing the work of others, in any environment, one can choose to focus either on what it is to be done; how it is to be
done; or why it is to be done (its purpose or meaning). In the management of professionals the supervisor should be very clear on the what (“provide clear goals” ), spend only the
bare mini­ mum of time on the how (“involve them in decision-making,” “pro­ 1 72 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm vide autonomy” ) and spend a lot of time on the why
(“provide meaning” ). This is particularly important for junior professionals. On any given professional project, there is an admixture of diagnosis and cre­ ativity together with
seemingly picayune but no less important execu­ tion tasks: drafting memoranda, crunching numbers, documenting progress, and the like. Here, above all, the manager must help the
professional worker place the task in context, see its importance, and accept the task as worthy of professional effort. Young professionals are no fools: they know that their work
will contain a significant proportion of less-than-frontier-level activities. However, it is profoundly demotivating when this work is presented with the attitude, “Yes, I agree
it’s dull and boring, but it’s got to be done and you’ve been chosen to do it.” The good manager can convey the spirit that “There’s no task too trivial to be done well: there’s
just as much opportunity to do good or bad work here as there is any­ where else in the project. It’s all important.” This is, of course, no more than the truth. But in their own
personal distaste for “mun­ dane” work, too many partners I have observed fail to convey this sense of importance. Rarely have I heard of young professionals becoming demotivated
because of too much work; most often (all too often) demotivation results from too much meaningless work. And since almost no work done by a professional firm is in fact
meaningless (it is all, or should be, valuable to clients), this syndrome represents a failure of manage­ ment. MOTIVATION AND PROMOTION A great deal of the motivation of
professionals is accomplished through the interpersonal interactions between the professionals and the partners who lead them. However, as we saw above in our dis­ cussion of the
role of recruiting, the systems and structure of the firm also play an important role. The work assignment system (how indi­ vidual projects are staffed) clearly plays a critical
role, since it is this system that determines the variety and the challenge of the work to be done by an individual, both major determinants of motivation. In some cases, work
assignments can also be used to ameliorate the ef­ fects of diminishing promotion prospects. The Motivation Crisis 173 Such approaches, however, can never completely substitute for
ca­ reer progress, inside or outside the firm, as a motivating force. Pro­ fessionals, certainly the ones any organization would want to keep, are, almost by definition, ambitious.
Any environment where contin­ ued career progress is compromised is almost certain to result in less­ ened motivation. Whatever its other defects, the up-or-out partnership system
has the great virtue that it maintains an air of dynamism, of continued progress, of challenge, that plays to the psychological needs of professionals. Further, by removing weaker
performers from the organization, the system avoids the (very strong) demotivating effect on good performers of showing tolerance for weaker, less productive people. In today’s
environment, this last point takes on a special impor­ tance. In a professional organization where the odds of making part­ ner are either lengthening or where the criteria for
partnership are shifting (i.e., in most professional organizations), the level of ambi­ guity felt in the middle and upper ranks of the nonpartner staff rises rapidly. In such an
environment it is inevitable that many nonpartners will begin to question their opportunities within the firm, and ask themselves whether or not they should begin to look
elsewhere. If the atmosphere is truly ambiguous, and all nonpartners are kept equally in the dark, it is more than likely that it will be the best young professionals, the most
marketable, who will leave to seek greener pastures, leaving behind the less-than-superior individuals. Clearly, to avoid this, professional firms must begin to make distinctions
be­ tween the best and the competent at an earlier stage, and ensure that those the firm wishes to keep know that they are valued. Only then will it be the weaker performers who
will be encouraged to leave. In their attempts to hold on to more nonpartner staff short of partner­ ship, many professional firms are adversely affecting the overall level of
challenge and motivation felt in the junior ranks. Given today’s competitive environment, no professional firm can provide continued career progress to every junior professional
within the boundaries of the firm. Yet we have seen that commitment to career progress is one of the defining characteristics of the profes­ sional. Fortunately, there is a
relatively simple way out of this di­ lemma: outplacement. A firm that is truly committed to (and actively works at) placing its “alumni” (not passed-over partnership candi­ dates)
in good positions can respond to the career progress needs of all 174 M an aging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm of its juniors, and thereby create a highly motivational
atmosphere. As I observe the professional service sector, more and more firms are discovering the power of outplacement, not as a humanitarian effort, but as one of the key
elements of the firm’s management system. CONCLUSION The appropriate organizational response to the motivation crisis in the professions is not to try to make the atmosphere of the
organiza­ tion less intense. The economics of the practice today do not allow this option. Future success in the professions will flow only to those indi­ viduals and firms who are
willing to gird their loins and meet the intensity demanded by today’s practice. If today’s young profession­ als appear less motivated than in the past, it is not because they
cannot be motivated. Rather, it is because the sources o f motivation that ex ­ isted in the past, and the mechanisms through which they w orked, are no longer as forceful or
effective as they w ere. However, with more attention to personal supervisory skills and a reexamination of the firm’s recruiting, work assignment, feedback, and outplacement sys­
tems, the professional firm of tomorrow can be as highly motivating (and as satisfying) as the firm of yesteryear. CHAPTER 16 ON THE IMPORTANCE OF SCHEDULING The scheduling of work
assignments is the single most important man­ agerial activity in a professional service firm. Whoever makes the work assignment decisions is the person really managing the
practice. Although any single scheduling decision may not have the impact of, say, a major recruiting or marketing choice, the very frequency of scheduling decisions makes having
the “right” system a matter of par­ amount importance. Yet many firms view scheduling as a more or less routine administrative matter. That it is not. It is, above all, a mana­
gerial procedure that can powerfully influence the direction and suc­ cess of the firm. By allocating the right resources to different assignments, there is the opportunity to
influence the cost of the work, its quality, and the timeliness of its delivery. Scheduling has longer-term consequences as well. Over time, the pattern of assignments given to
professionals will profoundly influence their professional developm ent, their worth to the firm and to clients, their satisfaction with the firm, and, as a result, their
motivation and productivity. Viewed as a connected set of deci­ sions, assignments will also play a large role in the dissemination o f expertise throughout the firm, acting as a
primary vehicle for convert­ ing the experience and knowledge of individuals into the experience and knowledge of the firm as a whole. 175 176 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice
F irm Scheduling decisions require a delicate balancing act among goals that often conflict— profitability versus quality service, short-term ver­ sus long-term benefits to the
organization, putting the needs of one client before another, the morale and development of one staff mem­ ber before another, WHAT MAKES A “GOOD” SCHEDULING SYSTEM? P R O F IT A B
IL IT Y C O N SID ERA TIO N S Since, in the short run, staff expenses are fixed, some firms are lured into acting as if a good assignment system is one that results in high overall
utilization of staff resources. Indeed, in many firms, this is the dominant consideration in scheduling. The system is driven by the “Gotcha!” approach— when a new matter is
brought in, we look to see who is not yet fully chargeable and say “Gotcha! You’re assigned.” In such firms, scheduling is predominantly an administrative activity, designed to
