the differences in points. This is up from 59 percent for age and billing rate alone, implying that busi­ ness development performance explains 15 percent of the differences in
points that age and billing rate cannot explain. Figure 2 4 -4 shows that “Total Dollars Billed as Client Partner” played some role in compensation setting (there is somewhat of a
rising trend), but that it was probably not a dominant influence (there is a lot of scatter). While the relationship seems to have a strength of 21 percent, there is a lot of
overlap with other factors: Adding this factor to those we have already considered only adds (according to the nongraphical analysis) an incremental 2 percent to the 74 percent we
have already explained. The last two graphs are revealing. Figure 2 4 -5 shows that there is a barely observable relationship between points and the percentage of standard fees
collected (the “realization rate” ). (If anything, it seems as if there is a slight trend downwards.) It would appear that “good profitability management” was not applied across
the board as a fac­ tor in determining points. This does not prove that the compensation committee did not take into account this factor in individual cases. It does show that they
did not apply a consistent pattern across the range of partners. Finally, Figure 2 4 -6 reveals that our fictional firm did not, for bet­ ter or for worse, place much reliance on a
partner’s personal billable hours in setting compensation— there is no observable trend. (While unusual, this may be an appropriate finding. If too much emphasis is given to
individual partner hours, there might be an incentive to hoard work that should more appropriately be done by others.) 276 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm We have
examined each of our available quantitative factors. Can anything be said about the qualitative factors used by the committee? At least this: If one takes together simultaneously
all of the six quan­ titative factors, then a total of “only” 76 percent of the differences in points can be explained. (This result comes from the “multiple regres­ sion”
statistic referred to earlier.) Therefore, we can conclude that the compensation committee relied on qualitative factors for 24 percent of its decision making. We cannot tell
whether these other factors were sensible (quality of work, associate training, cooperativeness, etc.) or not (politicking, arbitrariness, etc.) But we have shown that our
fictional firm’s system is not purely a formula driven one. Is 24 percent weight given to judgment too much or too little? As always, that’s for the firm to decide. But at least
the partners know. For better or for worse, the ambiguity of “What’s rewarded around here?” has been significantly reduced. Of course, it has not been elim­ inated. There is still
that 24 percent judgmental component that we cannot explain. (Although it is worth noting that the device used in awarding a “grade” for business development can be applied in
other judgmental areas such as associate coaching, thereby turning a judg­ mental factor into a quasi-quantitative one.) There is also a degree of ambiguity left because of the
overlap be­ tween performance factors. If, for example, “billings as client part­ ner” and “personal billing rate” tend to move together, which is really being rewarded? It’s not
easy to say precisely. However, progress has been made. With six simple graphs (and a few statistics) we, and the partners of the firm, have a pretty good fix on what’s been done
in this firm. I can easily tell, as a partner in this particular firm, that I’d be better off focusing on my billing rate and my contribution to business development as a means of
getting more points, and should worry a little less about my billable hours. I may not like those conclusions, but I now know what is given attention and what is not. And I don’t
have to rely on believing or trusting the compensation committee. It should be pointed out that the graphical/statistical approach to disclosure of compensation awards still
permits a significant degree of confidentiality to be preserved if the firm so wishes. The “dots on the page” do not identify which partner is which. Accordingly, the ap­ proach
can still be used by those firms with policies against disclosure of individual partner compensation. (There will be the potential for a Patterns in P a r t n e r Compensation 277
breach of confidence in a small firm where one or two partners are “away from the pack” and hence show up as readily identifiable on a graph.) However, many firms who do follow a
nondisclosure policy do so because they fear misinterpretation of the results (i.e., questions of the form, “Why did X get more than me?” ). If they provided the type of analysis
recommended here, where the overall patterns of compensa­ tion are made clear, there would be fewer disadvantages to disclosure of compensation. Naturally, any compensation
committee would want to review this analysis before disclosure to the partners. I can hear the conversation now: “Did we really intend to give little or no weight to the profitable
management of matters (the realization rate)? Of course not! That’s not the signal we intended to send. We thought we were taking it into account in our individual decisions. Yet
when you put it all together, there is no pattern. Perhaps we should review the decisions again!” In this fashion, the graphical (and statistical) analysis, used on a “trial
balance” basis, can become a useful decision-making tool within the committee to ensure that the pattern of its decisions sends the right signals to the partners. Naturally, there
are many possible enhancements to this approach. Some firms may wish to analyze how the percentage change in points relates to performance factors, not just the absolute level of
points. Others will want to examine performance data over a period of time (say, a three-year average) rather than just the latest year. Many such enhancements are sensible. The
key issue, however, is sharing the anal­ ysis with the partners. A compensation committee has not done its job until it can show (not just tell) the partners precisely “what is re­
warded around here.” CHAPTER 25 PIE-SPLITTING In 1983, I decided to conduct a simple study of compensation prac­ tices among law firms to see how different firms would deal with
different types of partners. Although the results are both old and from a single profession, I still get comments from clients about the survey and hear that they still use it to
test views within their firms. So I have decided to include it here. With the assistance of Steven Brill, the editor of The American Lawyer, and Bruce Heintz, a law firm
consultant, I invented seven archetypal partners of a fictional firm and provided statistical and descriptive information on each (see Table 2 5 - 1 ). Those who partic­ ipated in
the study were asked to indicate for each archetype what the likely range of compensation (high and low) would be in their firm relative to the compensation of an average partner.
Each of the archetypes can be given a brief label: A is the average partner, B is the rising young superstar, C is the unproductive older partner, D is the individualistic solo
operator, E is the hardworking “back-room” lawyer, F is the executive committee member actively maintaining a prac­ tice, 279 TABLE 2 5 -1 The Archetypes: Eight Partners of a
Fictional Firm Partner A Partner B Partner C Partner D The typical lawyer Young and entrepreneurial; has built a loyal group o f associates around him. Seems to have run out o f
gas; suspect som e personal problems at hom e. “Jou rney­ m an” A lawyer; prima w orks donna hard, E xecu­ solo but tive oper­ com ­ brings ator; in little mittee likes busi­ m em
ber; high ness; tries to visi­ relies do ev­ bility on oth­ erything; ers; a m ajor cases; a little “partner force in too associ­ the firm. glib. ate. ” Billable Hours Worked 100
141 74 105 115 Nonbill­ able Hours Worked 100 152 51 92 Dollars Managed 100 198 33 Write-off Performance 100 120 Unbilled Dollars 100 Collections Per­ formance Partner E Partner G
Partner H M an­ ages branch office, which has p oo r profit­ ability. M ajor rain­ m aker; passes on cli­ ents and w ork for others to han­ dle. 92 95 35 60 243 156 150 45 55 129
90 112 50 102 101 150 63 132 105 59 40 93 121 80 108 100 110 72 50 95 115 83 103 Business Getting 100 200 25 73 15 175 74 312 Billing Rate 100 64 129 104 103 112 108 139 Age 38 34
55 42 41 49 49 60 280 Partner F TA BLE 2 5 - 1 (CONT.) Department Corporate Real estate Tax Litigation Corporate Corporate Corporate Average Excellent Average Above Average
Slightly Above Average Average Not Known Outside Very Visible Not wellKnown Very WellKnown Thought to be WellKnown Superb Not Good: Some­ what Territo­ rial Very Cooperative Not
Very Coop­ erative Very Willing Very WellLiked Not Per­ ceived as Coopera­ tive Not Coop­ erative Average Out­ standing Poor Poor Average Out­ standing Not Enough Evi­ dence Not
Good Average Not Much Willing But Rarely Chosen None Will Serve When­ ever Asked Exten­ sive A GreatDeal Used to be In­ volved But Not Any­ more 100 p p p p p p p Quality of Legal
Work Average Excellent External Respect in Community Average Excellent Cooperativeness with other partners Average Ability to Develop Associates Committee Work & Firm Management C
O M P E N S A T IO N Probate All numbers shown (except for age) are expressed as percentages of the average for all the firm’s partners. Figures above 100 represent superior
performance: Thus, for example, Partner D worked 5 percent more billable hours than the firm average, but 8 percent fewer nonbillable hours. When it came to the amount of work
performed for his clients but not billed (unbilled dollars), Partner D’s performance was only 4 0 percent, far less than the firm average. Similarly, his performance on collections
was 50 percent: He took twice as long to collect as the average partner. 281 282 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm G is the struggling branch manager, and H is the major
rainmaker who doesn’t put in many billable hours. Table 25-1 gives a more developed picture of each. Before reading on, you may wish to complete the survey, by filling in what
compensation each archetype would receive at your firm, compared to the average. Alternatively, you may wish to circulate the survey among all of your partners, to determine the
degree of consensus that exists concerning what should be rewarded at your firm. In my survey, forty-six firms sent usable responses, a response rate of approximately 20 percent,
which is low but not unreasonable for surveys of this kind. The responses yielded some provocative findings. In spite of low billable hours and textual hints of noncooperativeness,
partner H, who combined seniority and major business-getting ability, would receive the highest compensation in most of the respon­ dent firms (Figure 2 5 - 1 ). This is
understandable: Bringing in business is often the most highly valued characteristic in awarding partner com­ pensation. But the message contained in the survey responses is more
compli­ cated: While most firms would award partner H more than the other archetypes, they differ drastically in how much more. The median award for partner H was 175 percent of
the average partner’s com­ pensation, but a quarter of the firms would give H less than 25 percent more than the average partner’s compensation, and a tenth would give less than 10
percent more than the average. Three firms even reported that they would assign less than the average partner’s com­ pensation to partner H! At the other extreme, a tenth of the
firms would assign partner H more than 210 percent of the firm average and, for a quarter of the firms, the share would be more than twoand-one-half times the average partner’s
compensation. The range expressed in these results is truly astounding. Ignoring the bottom and top tenths of responses, we see that partner H could receive anywhere from 110 to
250 percent of the firm average. FIRM SIZE DOESN’T MAKE A DIFFERENCE Flow partner H (or any of the other partners) is treated does not appear to be related to the size of the
respondent’s firm. Analyzed by firm size, the survey responses showed the same basic pattern as they did when FIGURE 25-1 What You Make Depends on Where You Work Pie-Splitting 60
70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 150 160 170 180 190 200 210 220 230 240 250 Percent 283 284 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm taken as a whole. Within each size group, the
awards to partner H cen­ tered on the 160 to 190 percent range, but there were dramatic swings within each group that swamped any statistical differences between the groups. For
example, one small firm (fifty lawyers or less) would give partner H only 62 percent of the firm average, while another would award 262 percent. Among the largest firms (150
lawyers plus), an­ swers ranged from 115 percent to 250 percent. (The absence of a sta­ tistical relationship between the size of the firm and the compensation decision holds true
for all of the archetypes, not only partner H.) A similar story is revealed when the responses are analyzed by form of governance. Of the firms responding, 72 percent identified
them­ selves as electoral democracies, while 22 percent said they were ruled by an oligarchy of powerful partners and 6 percent described them­ selves as benign dictatorships. For
none of the archetypes could a statistical difference be found between what the democracies would award as compensation and what the others would award. Again, the main message
from the data was one of huge variability between firms. The same conclusion holds true for different methods of choosing a compensation committee: There were no statistically
significant dif­ ferences between the 68 percent of firms that elected their committee, the 15 percent that appointed it, and the 17 percent whose compen­ sation committee was
hereditary. Could the wide range of answers for the different archetypes be due to an uncertainty on the part of the respondents as to what each ar­ chetype would receive in their
firm? It appears not. For each archetype, respondents were invited to indicate a “high” and a “low” figure, to allow for factors affecting compensation that were not accounted for
in the exercise. The vast ma j ority of firms gave estimates that ranged no more than 20 percent from the high figure to the low, and very few firms (less than one in ten) exceeded
a 30 percent range. Thus, it seems that most respondents felt that they had sufficient information to place the archetypes reasonably and accurately within their own systems. THE
OTHER RESPONSES: WHO GETS HOW MUCH? We have discussed partner H. What of the remaining partners ? As anyone familiar with law firms would probably guess, the part­ ner most highly
rewarded after partner H was deemed to be partner F: the executive committee member who works close to the firm average Pie-Splitting 285 on billable hours, more than double the
average on nonbillable hours, and has “origination credits” 75 percent above average. The median award given to this individual by the forty-six firms was 155 per­ cent—50 percent
of the respondents would give less than this, and 50 percent more. As with partner H, the range of treatment of this hard­ working executive committee member by different firms was
dra­ matic. One-quarter of the firms would award less than 130 percent of the firm average, while one-quarter would assign partner F more than 190 percent. Ignoring the top and
bottom 10 percent of responses, we find a compensation range of 120 to 225 percent of the firm average. Even though firms might have significantly different averages, this is again
an incredible range. It is interesting to compare the relative treatment of partners H (the “big rainmaker” ) and F (the “major force of the firm” ). Even though the median awards
to F and H vary by only 20 percent, there was significant disagreement among the forty-six firms surveyed as to which of these two should receive the higher compensation: 54 per­
cent gave more to partner H, but 46 percent gave more to partner F. The exercise was designed to explore these different reactions. Busi­ ness getting is important, and partner H
excels at this (as well as being more senior). However, billable hours and firm management, partner F’s relative strengths, are also important, and he has a respectable
business-development statistic. As expected, the different firms split about evenly on the matter of who is more valuable to the firm (if, indeed, a single year compensation award
can be interpreted in that light). Most firms agreed that the older rainmaker and the middle-aged ex­ ecutive committee member would receive significantly more than any other of
the archetypes. However, the same trade-off between business getting, firm management, and seniority was revealed at the next level. After H and F, the next two most highly
rewarded partners were B and G. Partner B was our fictional firm’s rising young superstar, with billable hours 41 percent above firm average, origination credits (and su­ pervisory
responsibility) double the firm’s norm, and nonbillable hours 52 percent higher than average—all at the tender age of 34. In contrast, partner G, the branch manager, underperformed
all of the firm’s norms except two: nonbillable hours (presumably management activities) and age (49, compared with the average of 38). Who gets the greater share? Half of the
firms in the survey chose the superstar, and half the more senior branch manager. In each case, the 286 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm median award was 112 percent of
firm average, although as before, the variation exhibited among the forty-six firms was large. The young su­ perstar would earn more than the average compensation at 29 percent of
the firms surveyed, while another 29 percent would give her or him in excess of 140 percent of average (with some ranging up to the 190 to 200 percent range). Similarly, more than
one-quarter of the firms would give the branch manager less than the firm average, and an equivalent percentage would award him or her more than 135 percent. Moving down the
rankings, we find D and E our next interesting pairing, both of whom were awarded compensation close to firm av­ erage. Partner D— the “prima donna solo operator”—worked an av­
erage number of billable and nonbillable hours but had origination credits some 27 percent below firm average. By comparison, one would expect A, the average lawyer, to be more
highly valued because of A’s superior business development record. However, 55 percent of the firms would give partner D at least 100 percent of firm average (partner A’s reward ),
34 percent would give at least 10 percent more than A, and 17 percent would award at least 25 percent more than A. Presumably, D’s age (42, compared to A’s 38) accounts for this
difference. Most firms ranked partner E, the journeyman back-room lawyer, significantly below partner D. The majority of the firms would award E less than firm average, and 15
percent would give less than 87 per­ cent of firm average. Another 25 percent, however, would give E 110 percent or more. Partner D’s comparative strength is business getting,
although he is below average in this and exhibits a poor collections performance; E works more billable hours, has better collections and write-off performances, but has
significantly fewer origination cred­ its. As noted, most firms would give D more than E, but not much more. The median compensation for D was 100 percent of firm aver­ age for E,
97 percent. Finally, the majority of firms in the survey agreed that the lowestrated partner was archetype C, the 55-year-old lawyer working only 74 percent as many billable hours
as the average partner and scoring below the average on every measure except age and billing rate. The median firm in the survey would award this partner only 90 percent of the
average partner compensation. (So much for seniority!) However, as in all previous cases, the range of awards among the forty-six firms was dramatic. A tenth of the firms in the
survey would award less than 65 percent, while another tenth would award at least 170 percent Pie-Splitting 287 (presumably due to seniority). Almost half the firms would give
part­ ner C at least as much as partner D or E, and (to my eyes) an amazing one third of the firms would give C more than the young superstar, archetype B! NO CONSENSUS Clearly,
the most significant lesson to take away from this study is the single word “confusion.” The most important parts of the table of results are not the relative rankings of H, F, D,
or E, but the amazing differences exhibited in the pie-splitting practices of different firms, in particular the relative weights they give to the factors of seniority, business
getting, billable hours, management responsibilities, and col­ lections performance. Variations in the criteria firms use in splitting the partnership pie are understandable and,
indeed, desirable. Different strategic posi­ tions in the marketplace require different compensation systems. A firm with a large institutional client base and with
multidisciplinary matters will probably need to give less weight to business origination and more to billable hours and supervisory and management respon­ sibilities. A firm
dependent on small transactional matters will need to have a broad base of business getters and will therefore tend to rate origination credits higher. A diverse, multisite firm
will have a greater need for management skill and will tend to reward this more highly than a relatively homogeneous, single-site firm would. Compensation system experts note that
any compensation scheme, if it is to stand up over time, must pass two tests: that of internal equity and that of external equity. Internal equity requires that, whatever the rules
are, they be applied in a consistent manner. Even when internal consistency has been achieved, there remains the test of external eq­ uity: Do the compensation rewards in the firm
reflect the economic realities of the open market? In the past, law firms have not had to confront this issue because, until recently, there has been no appre­ ciable market in law
firm partners. It is clear from the results of this survey, however, that, as this market develops, many firms will be forced to make significant shifts in the relative rewards
they allocate to different types of partners. CHAPTER 26 PARTNERSHIP GOVERNANCE The design of a governance system for a professional partnership is an exercise in constitution
forming, and the lessons of history and political science in this area are instructive. Two models of governance have his­ torically been in contention: the aristocratic (in which
appointed lead­ ers have significant power to make decisions on behalf of citizens) and the democratic (which emphasizes the autonomy of the citizenry). The aristocratic model is
applicable where strong leadership is cru­ cial to the success of the organization and where the requisite skills for leadership can be readily defined and identified. However, it
runs into problems when the standards of skill, wisdom, and virtue are unclear. Who, after all, is to judge the judges, and on what criteria? Popular election does not appear to
screen for skill, virtue, or wisdom. More important, how, in an aristocratic system, can we ensure that the cho­ sen leaders receive the consent of the governed? The problems of
democracy are no less clear, no less damning. Is it really possible to maintain equality of influence and power over gov­ ernment? Does not power tend to concentrate in the hands
of a mi­ nority with great wealth, political skill, or determination? If everyone is to have an equal say, how can decisions be made with sufficient knowledge? How can a popular
government act with vigor, speed, and decisiveness, particularly in crisis? How can a democracy handle 289 290 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm the twin problems of the
tyranny of the majority and the obstruction­ ism of the minority? One solution is to adjust our view of what democracy entails. In early Greek society, particularly in Athens,
democracy meant the equivalent of a permanent town meeting— all decisions of conse­ quence were made in public assembly. As many professional service firms have rediscovered, this
view of democracy tends to result in much wasting of time, slowness of response, and extreme conserva­ tism in action. The consensus decision making that such processes imply is
only feasible, Rousseau argued, among small, highly homo­ geneous bodies of people. (Even in Athens, disruptive citizens could be banished from the town meeting.) As they grow, all
societies be­ come more diverse, and consensus democracy increasingly infeasible. Accordingly, the world has changed its view of democracy, allowing elected representatives
accountable to the populace to act according to their conscience and their greater knowledge of the facts surround­ ing a specific situation. Between elections, the government is
free to act without repeated referenda; it is judged on its long-term perfor­ mance. WHAT MAKES PROFESSIONS DIFFERENT? In spite of the success of this model in national life, all
kinds of pro­ fessional service firms continue to struggle with the tension between the desire for autonomy and for the benefits of government. Why should this be so? Why is
Athenian democracy so eagerly defended among the professions, when that battle was lost decades or even centuries ago in other commercial enterprises? The explanation is in part
economic. Democracies flourish when the nation is at peace and the harvest is bountiful— as, historically, was the environment of the professions in the post-World War II era.
However, when war is declared or the crops fail, even the most ardent democracy selects a government that will direct the troops and tell factories what to produce. The style, if
not the structure, of govern­ ment changes. The national purpose calls for more centralized power, more authoritative (if not authoritarian) behavior. Since the peaceful, bountiful
environment the professions enjoyed in their peak is no more, Athenian democracy is increasingly inappropriate. Yet the tran­ sition is a difficult one, largely due to the nature
of professional work and those who choose it. Partnership Governance 291 It is a common complaint that professionals are unmanageable. In every profession I have studied, managing
partners say theirs is an im­ possible task because of the independent nature of the “prima donnas” they are supposed to lead. Samuel Butler, the presiding partner of Cravath,
Swaine & Moore, has likened his role to that of the only fire hy­ drant on a street with fifty dogs. Another managing partner, well informed about a variety of professions,
observes that “professional service firms are managed in one of two ways: badly or not at all.” In my experience, the problems of the ill-managed firm frequently derive not from a
lack of skills on the part of the manager, but from the unwillingness of others to allow the manager freedom to act. This pattern—common in law, medicine, architecture, indeed in
all the pro­ fessions— suggests that there are forces in professional work that cause this “unmanageability.” One of the most salient psychological characteristics of those who
choose professional careers is a strong need for autonomy. People choose professions (rather than, say, corporate careers) because the work is not routine or rigidly structured.
Thus, the professions have more than their share of people with an aversion to taking directions. One of the most important features of partnership is the seeming ab­ sence of
hierarchy among partners. Of course, there usually is a hier­ archy, but the game of equal status is played on the surface. The decision-making process is as much a device for
certifying status—the right to participate— as for getting things done. A final attribute, I believe, contributes to the unmanageability of professionals: their daily roles as
“experts.” In many professions, es­ pecially the advisory professions, clients need trust and reassurance, and, to be successful, professionals must project an air of omnipo­ tence
and omniscience. Naturally enough, this manner carries over into other areas of the professional’s life and breeds a sense of selfconfidence, of mastery, that can seduce the top
professional into be­ lieving that he or she can handle anything. Hence, every partner has an opinion on how the firm’s affairs should be conducted and believes that no decision
should be made without his or her input. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE The prevalence of participatory democracies in professional partner­ ships can be explained by more than the
economic and psychological 292 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm factors given above. Perhaps most important of all is the nature of professional work itself. In a service
in which the “technology” is well established, which can be delivered with a reasonably routine set of actions, specializa­ tion and division of labor are possible (and demanded by
the market­ place); organizations that deliver this type of service tend to be bureaucratic, hierarchical, and “managed.” Where a service is so cus­ tomized or complex that its
execution remains more of an art than a science, organizations tend to be more free-form, less hierarchical, and less bureaucratic. Sociologists of business refer to these two ex­
tremes as “mechanistic organizations” and “organic organizations.” Part of the turbulence affecting professional-service-firm gover­ nance, I would argue, is that a growing portion
of the work is becoming less of an art and moving more toward the science end of the spectrum. In all areas of practice, services that begin as the domain of the creative,
experienced professional inevitably “mature” and can be delivered by using more junior personnel and relatively well-specified procedures. Accordingly, as the proportion of such
services increases, professional service firms are becoming less “organic” and more “mechanistic.” If they wish to avoid a bureaucratic future, they must strive to get work that
truly demands a high proportion of creative, artlike approaches. Routine work, though temptingly profitable because past experience can be leveraged to cut costs, inevitably
results in a routinized work environment—anathema to those who choose professional careers. Partners’ autonomy has been justified in the professions because of the need to
customize work activities to fit each client’s needs. Profes­ sionals have demanded (if not always retained) the right to practice as they see fit, subject to minimal constraints:
Only the service provider knows a particular client’s circumstances and needs; no one can second-guess. This view, however, was more valid in the days of the generalist than in
today’s marketplace of specialization. Partners are more interdependent than when each served his own stable of clients: Now, coordination of a number of specialists is a
requirement, bring­ ing with it a demand for leadership. THE EMERGING NORM While it remains true that there are a broad variety of governance systems among the best professional
firms, it can nevertheless be stated that there is an emerging norm, which has the following components: Partnership Governance 293 a. An elected board of partners, whose function
is to discuss and resolve matters of firm policy, meeting three to four times a year. This board is not an executive body, running the firm, but in­ stead focuses on long-run
policy issues. b. A managing partner who devotes a significant proportion of his or her time to the executive function (50 to 100 percent). This individual is either elected by the
partnership at large or ap­ pointed by the board, most commonly the latter. c. A high-level business manager (or chief financial/administrative officer) who serves as the
“right-hand man (or woman)” to the managing partner, to free him or her from administrative duties and business analytic tasks. d. An executive committee, formed from the
(appointed) heads of practice areas and offices, who serve as part of the management team headed by the managing partner. e. A compensation committee formed from the executive
commit­ tee, supplemented by additional members either directly elected or appointed by the board. Like the nation state, these elements can be divided into three groups. The board
(and occasionally, the partners as a whole) represents the legislative branch whose duty it is to approve or disapprove the pol­ icies under which the polity will operate. The
managing partner, to­ gether with the executive committee and the business manager, form the executive branch. Finally, the compensation committee represents the judiciary. THE
BOARD The ultimate “approval” body in a professional firm is, of course, the partnership, which reserves the right to approve major policy deci­ sions on such matters as mergers,
new partners, and the like. How­ ever, among the largest firms, a distinction is made between a “decision-making” role and an “approval” role for the partnership. Sheer numbers
(and, increasingly, geography) prevent the partners, en masse, debating every policy decision. In consequence, most large pro­ fessional firms elect a board of partners whose task
it is to examine policy issues and either decide or present decisions to the partnership for ratification. This board of partners corresponds closely to the corporate model of a
board of directors representing the interests of the “shareholders” 294 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm (in this case, partners). Like a corporate board, a primary
function of this body is to oversee and monitor the activities of the executive (the managing partner) to ensure that the shareholders’ interests are being served. Some
professional firm boards meet monthly, but, as with corporate boards, a more common pattern is three or four times a year. In most large professional firms, members of the board
are elected by the partnership for terms typically ranging from two to four years, sometimes with restrictions on the number of consecutive terms an individual may serve (i.e.,
three two-year terms, two threeyear terms, etc.). This last constraint is more often harmful than helpful, since it may force a valuable board member who has the support of his or
her colleagues to step down. The opposite argu­ ment, that individuals may serve too long, can be accommodated through the electoral process. Most multisite large professional
firms make some efforts to ensure that the board is broadly representative of the practice. This is ac­ complished most usually by each operating unit directly electing its
representative. Occasionally, heads of practice units (offices or disci­ plines) become de facto members of the board, although this is less common, due to the fact that these
heads (see below) are frequently appointed by the managing partner, who is, in turn, appointed by the board. It should be stressed that a significant shift has taken place in the
roles and responsibilities of the board. Historically, many firms asked the body described here as the board to run the firm, that is, serve an executive, rather than a policy,
function. However, a number of forces have led to a shift. First, many firms have observed that where the firm’s highest committee serves both a policy and an executive role, the
day-to-day minutiae tend to dominate the committee’s delibera­ tions and real policy debates are neglected. Accordingly, most firms have found it wise to separate the policy and
executive functions. This same conclusion is generated by a “division of powers” consideration. By separating the policy and executive functions, the firm avoids hav­ ing too much
power located in one body. Finally, most firms have recognized that the managerial task, involving the day-to-day running of the professional firm, requires a distinctly different
set of skills and abilities than those required at the policy level. Partnership Governance 295 THE MANAGING PARTNER The skills necessary to fulfill the prime managerial role (the
managing partner, the chief executive officer, or chairman of the executive com­ mittee) are a combination of both “business skills” and “personal skills.” (See Chapter 19, How
Practice Leaders Add Value.) The man­ ager’s role involves a great deal of time spent working with individual partners, helping them resolve their issues and dealing with
conflicts, in ail senses of the word. Much of good management in a professional firm depends on per­ suasion, interpersonal dealings, dealing with delicate and often pri­ vate
matters with and for the partners. The best manager is often neither the most outstanding professional, the best business getter, nor even the best “financial brain.” Rather, it
requires someone who is skilled at building consensus, and able at resolving disagreements. Such skills do not always come to the fore in open, contested, direct elections.
Specifically, it is wise to empower the board with choosing the firm’s managing partner. However, it should also be said that to obtain the credibility to lead, this selection (or
nomination) should be ratified by the partners through a vote. In this way, the partners retain the right to veto an unwise selection, and the “manager” will receive a mandate to
exercise his or her function. Most commonly, the managing partner position is for a term (typ­ ically two to five years), thereby subjecting the managing partner to the discipline
of receiving the support of partners (or their represen­ tatives, the board) in order to retain his or her position. While this formal reappointment of the managing partner on a
periodic basis is typical, it is increasingly the case that once an effective managing part­ ner is found, the person tends to retain the position for a significant period of time.
Among major professional firms, the days of “rotat­ ing” the managing partner’s function appear to be on the wane, if not gone. Some firms have continued the practice of having the
executive function shared by an executive committee, with the managing part­ ner, as chair of this committee, being no more than “primus inter pares” in relation to the other
committee members. There are dangers in this model of succumbing to “committee-itis.” If too many people are jointly responsible for the execution of firm business, the chances
that implementation will be deferred increase exponentially. Accord­ 296 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm ingly, most professional firms are evolving to a model of
governance whereby executive committees, where they exist, serve an “advise and consent” role to the managing partner of the executive committee, but managerial responsibility is
focused in that individual. In structuring a governance system, it is important to note that there is a potential trade-off between structure and process. For ex­ ample, if those
charged with a responsibility adopt the process of ex­ tensive prior consultation, then the need for structural guarantees (such as representative committees) can be diminished.
Increasingly, professional firms are reducing their dependence on committees to get things done. Rather than appoint a group with “shared responsibil­ ity” (which all too often
turns into no one’s responsibility), firms ap­ point a single individual to take responsibility for a given area, subject to the condition that the individual is expected to be
consultative, involve others in the reasoning process, and build consensus before acting. Thus the virtues of involvement and implementation are achieved in a time-conserving
