ensure that everyone is kept busy. In fact, high utilization should be a major (and probably the major) objective for any sched­ uling system. However, it is far from the whole
story. CLIEN T SERV IC E Scheduling decisions clearly affect the level of client satisfaction to a significant degree. One senior staff member may be particularly ex­ pert in a
field required by two competing projects. The decision to assign that individual to one project or the other will regrettably, but inevitably, affect the quality of service
delivered to each client. Decid­ ing which client will receive the services of the “office superstar” is a profoundly strategic decision. Such necessary trade-offs between clients
go beyond technical skills. One staff member may be particularly well suited to a particular client because of a match in “style.” Although equally competent, another staff member
may not be appreciated as much by that client. Perhaps the second person works best with small businesses and that client is a large firm; the problem is not one of the
individual’s defi­ ciencies, but merely very real client preferences. Choosing the right team to match the “personality” of the client will be a major influence on the project’s
success, and is an issue of profound strategic impor­ tance. Wise use of assignment decisions can profoundly influence the chances of earning follow-on business and strong
referrals. On th e Importance of Scheduling 177 SK ILL BUILDING As well as profitability and client service, the needs of professional development must also be met. In a
professional firm, skills are devel­ oped on assignments, through exposure to new challenges and new responsibilities. The assignment system thus influences (and may even
determine) the amount of skill building that takes place in any given period. The issue is not only one of the amount of skill-building, but its na­ ture. The pattern of
assignments will determine how functional or in­ dustry skills are built up. If the same individual is always assigned to the same functional topic, the firm builds a functional
expert. If it wishes, it can manage the pattern of assignments to build an industry expert. Or it can not manage the process at all, and develop generalists. In making these
decisions, the firm must balance the interests of the firm with those of the individuals. Above a certain level, there may be no benefit to the firm in an experienced staff member
performing yet one more assignment on the same industry. He or she may be well down the learning curve, and the firm’s interests might be better served by having someone else
assigned to the project in order to build breadth in the firm’s expertise. Yet the system also must be responsive to individual staff member’s needs for development. In most
profes­ sional firms, the prospect for advancement is a prime motivating force among junior personnel. Accordingly, the scheduling system must provide individuals with the
opportunity to gain the experiences and develop the skills required. Considerations of development imply not only that individuals are assigned to the relevant mix of industries,
functional areas, and types of tasks, but also that they are exposed to a variety of senior staff members. This is important for two reasons. First, senior staff mem­ bers differ
in their capabilities and their willingness to share knowl­ edge, skills, and expertise. A junior who always has worked with the same senior staff member is less likely to be
exposed to the range of talents and knowledge that are expected to be developed. Unless he or she is exceptionally well rounded and particularly capable of helping juniors, no
single senior can fulfill all of the needs in the development of an individual. There is another reason that juniors should be assigned to work with a variety of senior staff
members. In most firms, promotion de- 178 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm cisions are based on the judgments of senior staff who have worked with the individual
concerned. The more senior staff members that have worked with a given junior, the more likely it is that good deci­ sions will result from the promotion process. M O TIV A TIO N
AND M O RA LE Finally, we must add another evaluative criterion to profitability, ser­ vice, and development. This is the criterion of staff satisfaction and morale. While the
personal fulfillment of the work force is important in any enterprise, it is particularly crucial to the professional service firm. Professional firms compete not only for their
services, but also in the highly competitive market for superior professionals. Profession­ als are strongly motivated by their opportunities for development not only in
organizational terms (“Will I get promoted?” ) but also in professional terms. They seek challenge; they seek self-improvement. Furthermore, they have their own interests. Their
personal prefer­ ences for specific assignments are a valid “input” to the scheduling system. On a more mundane but no less real level, staff satisfaction with assignment decisions
is determined not only by the professional con­ tent of the work but also by such practical matters as: location (“I’ve been out of town on my last three jobs; I deserve one at
home” ), urgency (“Every one of my projects has been a crisis situation; I know not all of our jobs are like that” ), colleagues (“Don’t give me Ted or Julie again; they’re very
competent, but we just don’t click” ), and a host of other personal matters. The last of these mentioned is particularly important. Most profes­ sional projects, and the
productivity of the effort put into them, will be significantly affected by how well the team works together. The explicit criterion of building successful working teams is
included in many firms’ assignments procedures. Even without this factor, how­ ever, professional firms must take som e account of the staff’s personal preferences in assignment
decisions. SCHEDULING RELATES TO OTHER SYSTEMS If the importance of wise management of scheduling decisions needs further demonstration, it is worthwhile to examine scheduling in
the On the Importance of Scbeduling 179 context of the firm’s other human resource management systems. The linkages are shown in Figure 16-1. The link between scheduling (work
assignments) and recruiting is strong. It is a common experience in all professions that potential recruits carefully investigate how their work pattern will be deter­ mined. “How
soon will I have to choose a specialty?” “Will I get a chance to work with a variety of individuals, in a variety of industries, in a variety of functional areas?” “How much
freedom will I have to choose the work I prefer?” These are common recruiting interview questions. Since a large part of the long-term success of any professional ser­ vice firm is
determined by its ability to attract and retain superior professionals, the role of the assignment system in marketing the firm to young professionals should not be neglected.
Apart from this per­ spective, there is another link between scheduling and recruiting. If the firm’s scheduling system requires the individual to take the initia­ tive and lobby
to get on good assignments, then there is little point in recruiting those individuals who are seeking direction in their early FIGURE 1 6 -1 Relationship Between Major Human
Resource Systems in the Professional Services Firm 1 80 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm professional years. Conversely, a highly centralized, closely adminis­ tered
scheduling system will strongly influence the personality of the firm and hence the type of people best to recruit. (It is not uncommon for professional firms to place heavy weight
in their recruiting on whether or not a given individual “fits in with our way of doing things.” ) Many firms have no formal training and development program. Often, the pattern of
work assignments is the program—no other for­ mal administrative procedure exists to influence the development of human capital. If such a program does exist, it affects the design
and function of the scheduling system: The two administrative systems must be matched. Similarly, the performance appraisal and counseling system that the professional service firm
requires must be accommodated to the procedures for work assignments. Where work assignments are cen­ trally administered through a formal department, the discretion of the
individual to be assigned may not be great. But if the assignment sys­ tem allows for more active involvement of individuals, whereby they can or must ask for, choose, or lobby for
specific assignments, then career counseling of juniors becomes an important task. They must be guided as to what is useful work, who are useful partners to work for, and what the
firm’s expectations and criteria are. There is, of course, a relationship between work assignments, per­ formance, and performance evaluation. The performance of a given individual
on a given project will be context-specific. It will depend on the individual’s past assignments and experience. In most firms, the team or project leader will be responsible for
any feedback procedures that are used. If performance is to be judged in relativistic terms (i.e., performance demonstrated versus the individual’s stage of development), the eval­
uation system becomes intimately connected with the assignment system. For example, an individual’s willingness to undertake an oth­ erwise undesirable project will be influenced
by how strongly the sub­ sequent performance is to be judged in context. If no mechanism exists to take this factor into account, work assignments will be heavily influenced. Forms
of compensation for professionals vary widely and are var­ iously related, at different firms, to performance, utilization, value to On the Importance of Schedul i ng 181 the firm,
experience, profitability of projects and of the firm, and many other factors. Each is significantly affected by the decisions that flow from the assignment system. The link
between assignments and compensation may be explicit, as in a system that ties an individual’s compensation to the person’s billability or utilization, or it may be implicit, when
compensation is influenced by subjective determinants of performances. In either case, the compensation system must be designed around the work assign­ ment system or vice versa.
They are not independent. The pattern of assignments will influence an individual’s promotability through the variety of experiences they have provided, the ex­ posure to different
partners, and the staff member’s subsequent performance. The relationship is two-way. If promotion criteria are such that certain standards must be met (such as demonstrated com­
petence in a variety of areas), the work assignment system must allow for, and perhaps encourage, the relevant experiences. WHO SHOULD HANDLE ASSIGNMENTS? In order to understand
the problems inherent in the design of sched­ uling systems, let us imagine that a firm has decided to appoint a scheduling “czar” (or “czarina” ) to be responsible for all such
deci­ sions. What information must be collected in order to make informed judgments? First, our decision maker would want information about each of the projects: a specific list of
the tasks to be performed and, from that, a list of the skills required. This information should indicate when each phase of the project is due and hence what time constraints and
flexibility exist. Next, the scheduler would need information on the skill levels and time-phased availability of each of the staff members. If our decision maker really wanted to
do the job properly, he or she would consider not only who feasibly could do the work but also how much each individual’s time would cost in relation to the likely pro­ ductivity
and quality of that individual’s work. Unfortunately, our service firm scheduler has even more facts to collect, absorb, and take into account. What are the professional needs of
the individuals to be scheduled? If these have not been determined, the scheduler needs to review the recent assignments for each of the staff members— what industries they have
worked in, what tasks they 1 82 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm have performed, what roles and responsibilities they have undertaken in their project teams, what
geographical locations they have been sent to, with which partners they have worked. Apart from the objective development needs of the individuals (as determined by a review
committee or the scheduling czar/czarina), the individual’s own preferences may or may not be relevant to the deci­ sion. Does the individual have a special, personal reason for
wanting to work on a particular industry? Does he or she need to work close to home this month? Is there a personal magic between this individual and particular managers or
partners? Such considerations may not carry large weight in the assignment process; but if they carry any weight at all, the information must be collected and given to the de­
cision maker. What of the preferences of managers and partners? Do they prefer to have one professional on their team rather than another? Finally, perhaps our scheduler will want
to know if there are client preferences either for individual staff members (for example, on repeat projects for the same client) or for certain categories of staff members (“This
is a ‘preppy’ client, so don’t give me Joe. He’s smart, but he’ll rub them the wrong way” ). Also relevant to the decision is the client’s relative importance to the firm. If a
client or project is a critical one, it should be a higher priority in receiving the firm’s best people. Without good judgment in this area, poor trade-offs in client service and
client re­ sponse may result. We have already created for our scheduling genius a problem of some complexity. (See Figure 16-2.) There is an extensive data bank of facts,
judgments, and perceptions concerning the staff members and the projects. In matching the many staff members to the many projects, the scheduler must achieve an “optimum”
allocation that is a function of the four major variables of profitability, client satisfac­ tion, staff morale, and professional development. The scheduling system is, above all,
a way to assemble and process large volumes of information and to make strategic (not administra­ tive) choices based upon that complex set of facts, judgments, and guesses. Our
scheduler needs a procedures to ensure that the four variables are appropriately and consistently weighted, and second, a source of accurate, relevant information—on real project
skill require­ ments, real capabilities and real developmental needs. A scheduling system consists not only of the decision making process itself, but all On the Importance of
Schedul i ng 183 FIGURE 1 6 -2 The Structure of the Assignment System CLIENT-RELATED INFORMATION Specification of Tasks and Skills Required Timing and Location of Work Client
Preferences __ for Staff Profitability Assessment o f ______ Importance STAFF INFORMATION Skill Level Availability Quality & Service Scheduling System Skill Building — Morale &
Motivation Past Assignment History — Future Development Needs Work Preferences Effective Cost (Salary) Fit with Team Leaders the various organizational devices that are used to
communicate in­ formation to and from the scheduler. This analysis clearly leads us to the conclusion that scheduling de­ cisions need to be truly managed. And managed by someone
in a position to make sound strategic trade-offs. It is not a task that can be delegated very far from the practice leader (or managing partner or partner-in-charge). Only such
people have the knowledge and judg­ ment to take a practice-wide view of scheduling decisions. For example, it is sometimes necessary for the scheduler to “chal­ lenge” the
staffing requests of a powerful partner, who has requested many of the best personnel to be assigned to his or her matter. Only a system which had a powerful scheduler (perhaps
even the practice leader himself or herself) could force the necessary reflection on the best use of the practice’s resources. Wise, strategic allocation of re­ sources among
competing uses to accomplish competing strategic goals cannot come from a system that is run by an administrator, nor (as is all too common) from a “political, lobbying,
horse-trading” process wherein each senior professional negotiates with the others to 18 4 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm get the best resources (“I’ll let you have
Susan this time, if you’ll give me Fred” ). There is nothing wrong with powerful partners lobbying to get the best possible staff for “their” projects— indeed they should act this
way. But someone needs to be on the other side of that discussion, thinking of the good of the practice as a whole, asking such questions as: “Why do you need the office superstar
on this one? Couldn’t you take one of our less qualified people who needs to work on a project like yours and train them? Maybe you could lower your project costs and also build
skills for our practice by doing that.” It is through such negotiations that the practice leader has the chance to really control the trade-offs between profits, quality, skill
building, and motivation. And if the practice leader isn’t doing it, then someone else (or some­ thing else) is really managing the practice. CHAPTER 17 ON THE MEANING OF
PARTNERSHIP The defining characteristic of the professional service organization as an organizational type is the expectation of all professionals that they will, with time and
personal development, proceed through the ranks to be considered for some form of ownership or partnership. Profes­ sionals want careers, not jobs. Because of this characteristic,
most professional service organiza­ tions effectively have an “up or out” system. Even if the firm does not enforce this policy, the career expectations of individual professionals
will lead them to seek better opportunities elsewhere if their progress is halted. Reinforcing this system is the tendency of every firm to view itself as an elite group.
Traditionally, the typical professional firm has acted as if it could afford to take in only the elite as partners; there has been no room for those who did not excel in the full
range of “partner skills.” Increasingly, firms are beginning to wonder whether this approach is still appropriate. They wrestle with decisions about partner candi­ dates who may
not meet all the criteria for elevation to premier status, yet represent assets to the firm. They do not want to lose such people, and are increasingly asking, “How can we keep
people without mak­ ing them partners? Should we consider instituting some new position or title, such as ‘principal,’ to handle cases like these?” 185 186 M anaging the P
rofessional S ervice F irm This issue raises an important question: What is the meaning of partnership? What does it symbolize? What are its essential ingredi­ ents? Traditionally,
admission to partnership in a professional firm has brought with it a complex bundle of rewards: • Equity Participation. Partners share in the net profits (or losses) of the firm,
while nonpartners receive salaries and perhaps bonuses. • Tenure. In most situations, partners cannot be removed except by an extraordinary vote of the partnership. • Autonomy.
Whereas juniors must accept the direction or influ­ ence of partners (if only because they will be subsequently judged for admission to the partnership by the partners), a partner
has, in many firms, a significant degree of autonomy in what and how he or she practices. A partner’s work is no longer subject to automatic review by others. • Participation in
Policy Making. As an equity participant in the firm, a partner usually has a right to be consulted on major policy decisions of the firm and has a say in how it is to be managed. •
Incom e. While not necessarily a right of partnership, partners usually earn significantly more than nonpartners. For some, the main benefit of being made partner is not autonomy,
equity, tenure, or be­ ing consulted: It is the simple fact of reaping the financial rewards that they worked so hard for in their apprenticeship years. • Internal Status and
Recognition. Apart from all of the foregoing benefits, partnership in the firm is also often eagerly sought because of the internal status and recognition it represents.
Professionals, per­ haps even more than other types of workers, seek the approbation of their peers: an acknowledgment of their worth. In the culture of most firms, this
recognition is embedded in the transition to partnership. To be accepted into the partnership represents an anointing and admis­ sion into the ranks of the full professional. To be
denied partnership is to be condemned to second-class status. • External Status and Recognition. Professionals seek not only the approbation of peers within the firm, but that of
those outside. In the words of one professional, “For myself, I’d accept a nonpartner po­ sition within the firm; I understand the internal circumstance. But when my friends and
neighbors say, ‘What? They haven’t made you a On the Meaning of Partnership 187 partner yet?,' it’s very hard to take.” In these circumstances it is as much the title of partner as
it is the substance that is being sought. What is significant about this list is that it bundles a large number of separate (or at least separable) rewards into one decision. If
you are made a partner, you receive, in most firms, all six rewards. If you are turned down, you are denied all six. This strikes me as a somewhat blunt instrument to use in
allocating organizational rewards: It is an unforgiving system that does not allow for subtle distinctions to be made. The world is not divided into two types of people: partner
material and nonpartner material. There are degrees. These reflections suggest that it might be wise to try to unbundle the six rewards and not embed them all in one “go/no go”
decision. It is certainly feasible. There is no reason why equity participation need be synonymous with partnership. Indeed, a number of professional ser­ vice firms that are
incorporated (though operating on partnership principles) spread equity participation to ranks below that of partner equivalent, thus giving a greater number of professionals a
stake in the firm’s success. Even income levels can be separated from partnership. In some firms a fully productive junior can earn more than a less-thanproductive partner, a
scheme many other firms could usefully imitate. Similarly, it is possible to separate tenure from partnership— in ei­ ther direction. Nonpartners can be given security of
employment with­ out being made partner, and many large professional firms have partnerships without a guarantee of tenure. Like senior officers at any large corporation, partners
can be (gently) asked for their resignation if they cease to perform or meet the firm’s standards. Participation in policy making can also be separate from partner­ ship. At a
number of firms there are, in effect, two classes of partner: nominal partners and real partners. The latter wield all of the power and make all of the important decisions. They
rarely consult the nom­ inal partners, and while there are partnership votes, these tend to be “rubber stamps” of decisions already made by those in power. I am not suggesting that
this is the way to run a firm, although it has its merits: The point is that there are ways to separate membership in the partnership from policy making. Autonomy, likewise, is a
matter of degree. In some firms, partners are truly autonomous, subject only to the constraints of the partner­ ship profit-splitting system. In other firms, junior partners
continue to 188 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm act under the direction of department heads and other more senior partners. The degree of autonomy granted to partners
(and expected by them) is a function of the internal culture of the firm and the choices the firm has made in this regard. It is not preordained. Finally, status— internal and
external. The relative importance of partnership as a sign of internal status differs significantly between firms. In firms with a well-developed class consciousness, the differ­
ence in status between partner and nonpartner is all important. Part­ ners are royalty and all others are “the common people”: A real “usthem” mentality prevails. In such firms,
the status value of being a partner is immeasurable. However, it need not be that way. In other firms, junior nonpart­ ners serve on important committees, take significant
responsibility, and, within the internal culture, are treated with as much respect as partners. The difference in status (which still exists) is minimized, and the privileges of
rank are suppressed. In such firms, partnership is not sought because of status needs. Failing to achieve partnership, or be­ ing delayed in achieving it, has its disappointments,
but a loss of face in the organization is not one of them. Such firms are more likely to be able to retain desirable professionals short of full partnership. External status can
also be managed. A number of professional service firms have ceased to make any distinctions in the outside world as to the rank of staff members. One I know calls everyone an
“asso­ ciate” regardless of tenure, income, internal status, responsibilities, and accomplishments. Internal titles might be used to reflect internal work assignments (manager,
department head, executive committee chairman), but to the outside world, all members of the firm have equivalent titles. This is not to say that differences in external status do
not exist, due to reputation, performance, and the like, but the firm does not go out of its way to accentuate these. External status is a function of the individual’s abilities,
not his or her place in the hier­ archy. So what does all this mean? It means that professional firms have more options in distributing their rewards—“hard” and “soft”— than many
have acknowledged. They have more ways of recognizing indi­ vidual performance and distinctions between people than the sledge­ hammer of the partnership decision. By “unbundling”
the mixture of rewards represented by partnership, it should, indeed, be possible to retain good people without making them partners. CHAPTER 18 SURVIVING THE PEOPLE CRISIS
Professional service firms compete in two marketplaces: They com­ pete for clients and they compete for staff. While acknowledging this truism, most professional firms’ strategic
thinking has nevertheless focused overwhelmingly on the client marketplace alone. Strategy, in most firms, has just been another name for marketing. Human re­ source issues, such
as recruiting, training, and development have been dealt with as matters of administrative detail, not competitive strat­ egy. This, however, is about to change. In the next decade
and beyond, the ability to attract, develop, re­ tain, and deploy sta ff will be the single biggest determinant o f a p ro­ fessional service firm's competitive success. How do we
know this? Simple demographics. Each year since the mid-1960s, the number of new entrants into the work force, in every developed economy, expanded dramatically as the “Baby-Boom”
gen­ eration reached their twenties. For example, in the United States, the number of people in the twenty-five-to-thirty-four age group rose be­ tween 1965 and 1985 from
approximately 17 percent of the total population to nearly 23 percent. A similar growth took place in every developed economy. The increase in numbers was not the only trend
favorable to pur­ chasers of professional labor. During this same twenty-year period, in 189 190 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm many countries, an ever-increasing
percentage of women entered the work force, particularly the professional work force. Further, the “Baby-Boom” group had a higher percentage of university graduates than any
previous generation, favoring recruiting organizations that offered professional careers. In this environment, the relative neglect of strategic thinking about the people
marketplace by professional firms may have been appro­ priate: You don't worry too much about something that is in plentiful supply. However, this environment has begun to change.
In every developed economy, the percentage of the population in the twenty-five-to-thirty-four age group has started to decline from its 1985 peak, and will continue to fall over
the next twenty years. In the United States, this group will decline from 23 percent to 17 percent of the total population in the next fifteen years. The changing supply picture
must be placed against the background of what is happening to the dem and for professional workers. Most observers of the world’s developed economies have noted a shift to the
“knowledge economy.” Educated people with a few years of business experience are in increasing demand by businesses of all types, and will have many more options in building their
careers than their BabyBoom elders. To place the potential impact of this in perspective, consider the following statistic: The “oil shock” of the early 1970s was caused by only a
5 percent shrinkage in worldwide supply. Professional firms are facing a 25 percent shrinkage in their nonpartner labor force. There is going to be a huge people shortage, and its
effects will be major. Evidence of the changing supply-demand imbalance was clearly seen in the United States in the late 1980s as entry level salaries es­ calated rapidly in the
accounting, legal, and consulting professions. Its effects have been hidden in the recession of the early 1990s, lead­ ing many to believe that there is now an abundance of
available peo­ ple to be hired. However, an examination of the underlying statistics suggests that the effects of the changed supply-demand imbalance will return with full force
once the recession is over. Surviving the People Crisis 191 FROM RESOURCE RICH TO RESOURCE CONSTRAINED To understand the implications of the shift in the supply-demand bal­ ance of
human resources, imagine you are a manufacturer of products made out of gold, in an environment where gold is relatively cheap and in plentiful supply. How would you mine for gold
in such an environment? You would dig out a mound of earth, stress it out, keep the obvious nuggets and throw the rest away! (The “Up-or-Out” system). When gold is cheap and
plentiful, it isn’t worth a lot of effort to try to turn medium-grade ore into refined product— it’s cheaper and faster just to go dig some more and look for more nuggets. In the
Baby-Boom years, turnover at professional firms was high (by design) as many more were hired than were expected to make it through the ranks to become owners or partners, and
little emphasis was given to converting medium-grade staff into high performers. In most firms, you made it on your own, or you didn’t make it. This was a perfect policy for a
resource-rich envi­ ronment. When gold is cheap and plentiful, what is your concern about seek­ ing out efficiency improvements in the use of gold? In principle, effi­ ciency is
always a good idea, but in practice, firms don’t worry very much about the efficient use resources that are cheap and plentiful. In the 1980s few professional firms spent much time
and effort looking for new ways to reduce the cost of delivery of their services. As a consequence, few staff members were consistently put to their “high­ est and best use.”
Resource allocation decisions (such as staff sched­ uling processes) were driven by criteria such as the short-term “keep people busy” principle, rather than being driven by issues
of produc­ tivity, efficiency, and best use of resources. When gold is cheap and plentiful, how much do you worry about the relative profit margins of the different uses to which
you put the gold? Again, product-line profitability is a “nice idea,” but the reality is that when the resource is cheap, it’s not worth worrying about: Just make whatever you can
sell! What about your policy toward growth? In a cheap resource environment, you grow as fast as you can, what­ ever way you can. If you can sell it, you’ll make money at it. What
this discussion shows is that there has been a sound logic to some common managerial policies among professional firms: 192 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm • Up-or-out
survival of the fittest • More preaching than execution of coaching • Opportunistic resource allocation policies • Lack of attention to seeking ways to reduce delivery cost • Lack
of project-level profitability analyses • Business development activities that ignore or downplay the prof­ itability of different kinds of work All of these policies and practices
are smart— as long as the environ­ ment remains resource rich. But what if it changes? Then the policies firms have used successfully for twenty years might not be so sensible.
When resources become relatively scarce and relatively costly, it sud­ denly does make sense to invest in coaching and training in order to extract the maximum value from
“medium-grade ore.” It suddenly does become sensible to worry about the efficient use of resources, and to schedule them carefully, looking for ways to improve productivity (not
just production). It is now necessary to have a good “job-costing” system so that firm management can track whether resources are be­ ing used on the right applications. And growth
as a prime strategy is now no longer obviously correct. Care must be taken that high-price resources do not get tied up in too much low-value work. The changing supply-demand
balance for human resources clearly affects far more than just recruiting and starting salaries. In fact, these may be the least important aspects of the issue. Many of the en­
trenched management practices that have proven to be so appropriate for the last twenty years, if preserved, may lead to the firm’s downfall over the next twenty years. The key
will be the willingness to chal­ lenge and reexamine policies that have served the firm well. Will Rog­ ers put it best: “It’s not what we don’t know that hurts us, it’s what we
know for sure that ain’t so.” WHAT CAN BE DONE? The changing supply-demand imbalance has three dimensions: scar­ city (firms might not be able to recruit sufficient numbers of
people for their needs), high cost (salaries will escalate for all employees), and retention (firms will find it harder to hold onto mid-level employees who will be courted not
only by traditional professional firm compet­ itors, but by many other businesses). Of these dimensions, scarcity of entry-level hires is likely to be the least of the problems.
Most professions provide attractive initial ca­ Surviving the People Crisis 193 reer opportunities relative to other industries. Law school graduates will probably continue to join
law firms, accounting graduates to join accounting firms, and business school graduates will continue to find consulting and investment banking attractive first jobs. The real
impact of the people crisis will be felt in absorbing the high costs that will result from competition for educated young workers, and continuing to make the professional-firm
career path attractive in an environment when mid-level employees will receive numerous “head-hunting” calls. To accommodate an environmental shift as large as the one de­ scribed
will take more than tinkering. No single stroke will solve the problem: What will be required is a cohesive strategy built on many avenues of attack. Among these avenues, we can
identify three broad approaches that must be considered (see also Table 18-1): a. Find ways to improve the productivity of higher-priced re­ sources; b. Find ways to reduce need
for costly resources; c. Investigate the possibilities of substitution for costly resources. PRODUCTIVITY STRATEGIES Even if firms attract the numbers of people they need (i.e.,
deal with the scarcity issue), they will continue to face the fact that the bulk of their traditional hires will be at inflated salaries. Accordingly, ways will have to be found to
recoup these higher costs by increasing the value of the output produced by the higher-priced resources. Doing this will be the most significant avenue of attack in dealing with
the people crisis. In the competition for scarce, high-priced labor, those firms that can put high-priced people to better (more produc­ tive) use than their competitors will be
best able to pay higher salaries. Ensuring and raising the productivity of high-priced assets will remain the strategic issue of the coming decade. W ORK M ORE H O URS The most
obvious way to obtain more output from any productive resource is to work it harder. A similar thought has occurred to some professional firms who have attempted to extract a “quid
pro quo” for higher staff salaries by requiring more billable hours from each of them. 194 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm TABLE 1 8 -1 Tactics for Dealing with the
People Crisis PRODUCTIVITY STRATEGIES Speed up apprecticeship process so that costly resources can handle higher value w ork Rew ard partners explicitly fo r g o o d coaching
Change engagement staffing so that all are put to “highest and best use” Use technology to enhance productive capabilities o f sta ff members Increase expected billable hours from
sta ff Change pay schemes to reward perform ance differentials. REDUCE NEED STRATEGIES Withdraw from som e services and markets that cannot support new salary levels Drop
“up-or-out” system to reduce turnover Rethink fast grow th strategies Em phasize profitability more, volume o f fees less SUBSTITUTION STRATEGIES Use m ore paraprofessionals Use
technology to substitute fo r labor Hire “nontraditional” candidates and offset by training Hire people fo r “jo b s ” instead o f “careers” A ccom m odate part-time, flex-time,
“alternate life-style” w orkers It is less than clear that this is a sustainable, viable strategy for dealing with the people crisis. The increase in billable hours (of the order
of 5 to 10 percent) does not offset completely the salary in­ creases, and may work against these firms. The whole point of the escalating salaries seen in the late 1980s (and
predicted to return) is that there is a scarcity, and hence a need to be m ore attractive to recruits in a competitive marketplace. Adding to the workload is un­ likely to make a
firm competitive with others. At best this is a stopgap measure until the other actions discussed below can be implemented. Surviving the People Crisis 195 CHANGE M ETH O D S FO R
PERFO RM IN G CLIENT W ORK If a manufacturing company was faced with a doubling of the price of a key machine, it would reexamine the way in which it uses that ma­ chine to ensure
that it was producing the maximum value of output and was not being wasted in any way. Similarly, a professional firm will need to reexamine whether or not its productive resources
are truly being put to “highest and best use.” Evidence from my consulting and research suggests that many firms have significant room for improvement here. For understandable rea­
sons—their overriding concern for quality and effectiveness—few professional firms have paid much attention to efficiency in their op­ erations. In a majority of professional
firms, even the best managed, there is a significant degree of “systemic underdelegation”—work be­ ing done by a higher-priced person that could, with more organization and
training, be done by someone more junior (and less costly). (See Chapter 4, Solving the Underdelegation Problem.) In many firms as much as 50 percent of the entire productive ca­
