assumed to leave the firm. We now have fifteen juniors left. However, with five seniors, and ten managers, the firm requires twenty-five juniors: it must hire ten. These changes
are summarized in Table 1-3, which follows the same logic for years 1 through 9. In year 5, the first batch of middle-level staff that were promoted from junior in year 1 will be
ready to be considered for promotion to senior. It will be recalled that there are four of them. If promotion opportunities are to be maintained, then two will be promoted (i.e.,
50 percent) and two will leave. This creates a total of ten seniors. With a total of ten seniors in year 5, twenty middle-level staff are required. Of the sixteen in the firm the
previous year, four have been promoted or have left, meaning that a total of eight juniors must be promoted. Fortunately (but not fortuitously) ten juniors who were hired in year 1
are to be considered for promotion. The expected 80 percent target may be maintained! What must be stressed at this point is that we have arrived at these staffing levels solely by
considering the interaction of the firm’s leverage structure with the promotion incentives (career opportuni­ ties) that the firm promises. What we have discovered by performing
these calculations is that the interaction of these two forces deter­ mines a target (or required) growth rate for the firm. As Table 1-3 shows, Guru Associates must double in size
every four years solely to preserve its promotion incentives. If it grows at a lower rate than this, then either it will remove much of the incentive in the firm, or it will end up
with an “unbalanced factory” (too many seniors and not enough juniors) with a consequent deleterious effect upon the firm’s economics. If the firm attempts to grow faster than
target rate, it will be placed 14 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm in the position of either having to promote a higher proportion of juniors, or to promote them in a
shorter period of time. Without cor­ responding adjustments, this could have a significant impact on the quality of services that the firm provides. We have seen that the leverage
structure and the promotion policies together determine a target (required) growth rate. It should be ac­ knowledged, however, that there is another way of looking at the
relationship between these variables. An equivalent way of stating the relationship would be to observe that if given a growth rate and a leverage structure, the promotion
incentives that result can be speci­ fied. We may see this by examining Table 1-3 once more. Suppose that we had constructed this by specifying the growth rate and the project team
structure. We would then have discovered that we could afford to promote only four out of five juniors and one out of two managers. We would also have discovered that we would have
a “built-in,” or target, turnover rate averaging over 4 percent (two res­ ignations per year for the first four years while the average number of nonsenior staff was 45.5). TABLE 1
-3 The Consequences of Guru Associates’ Promotion Policies S taff Numbers 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Senior 4 5 6 7 8 10 12 14 16 20 Middle 8 10 12 14 16 20 24 28 32 40 Junior 20 25 30 35
40 50 60 70 80 100 TOTAL 32 40 48 56 64 80 96 112 128 160 New Hires 10 10 10 10 20 20 20 20 40 Resignations 2 2 2 2 4 4 4 4 8 Annual % Growth in Staff 25 20 17 14 25 20 17 14 25 A
Question of Balance 15 In this example, Guru Associates can achieve what would be con­ sidered an extremely low target turnover rate if it achieves its optimal growth. However, the
norm in many professional firms is a much higher rate than this, often reaching as high as 20 to 25 percent (for example in some CPA firms). The key point to note here is that,
given a growth rate and an organizational structure, the target turnover rate of the firm can be specified. (This does not, of course, tell us what the actual turnover experience
of the firm will be. We are considering here the turnover that the firm requires to keep itself in balance. While it may be able, through its promotion system, to ensure that the
actual rate does not get too low, it may have to use other devices to ensure that the actual turnover rate does not get too high through too many people quitting.) In most
professions, one or more firms can be identified that have clearly chosen a high target rate of turnover. Partners (or sharehold­ ers) can routinely earn a surplus value from the
juniors without hav­ ing to “repay” them in the form of promotion. This high turnover rate also allows a significant degree of screening so that only the “best” stay in the
organization. Not surprisingly, firms following this strat­ egy tend to be among the most prestigious in their industry. This last comment gives us the clue as to why such firms
are able to maintain this strategy over time. Individuals continue to join these organizations, knowing that the odds of “making it” are very low. In the eyes of many potential
recruits, the experience, training, and as­ sociation with the prestigious firms in the industry make the poor promotion opportunities at such firms worthwhile. Young professionals
view a short period of time at such firms as a form of “post-postgraduate” degree, and often leave for prime posi­ tions they could not have achieved as quickly by another route.
In­ deed, most of the prestige firms following this strategy not only encourage this but provide active “outplacement” assistance. Apart from the beneficial effects that such
activities provide in recruiting the next generation of juniors, such alumni are often the source of future business for the firm when they recommend to their corporate em­ ployers
hiring their old firm (which they know and understand) over other competitors. The ability to place ex-staff in prestigious positions is thus one of the prerequisites of a
successful churning strategy. (An exception might be provided by those professions where legal requirements such 16 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irM as professional
certification necessitate that juniors spend time in a firm. However, even here the prestige firms provide active outplace­ ment assistance.) GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY Before we
leave the topic of growth, we should take a quick peek back at Guru Associates. How did its growth contribute to its profitability? Let us perform our analysis on the basis of
constant (year 0) dollars, to remove the effect of inflation. By implication, this means that the salaries and billing rates at each staff level remain the same. What does the
firms’ profit and loss statement now look like? Table 1-4 repeats the analysis of Table 1-2, using year 5 staffing levels instead of year 0. The result? Per-partner profits have
not increased! In fact, they have remained precisely the same! What this simple example shows is that there is no necessary rela­ tionship between growth and profits. As we have
seen, growth in a professional firm is driven primarily by the need to attract and retain staff, and is critical for that reason, but is not a guarantee of higher per-partner
profits. Why is this so? We shall explore the reasoning in greater detail in subsequent chapters, but the basic fact is this. If a firm grows subject to two conditions, as Guru
Associates has, whereby: (a) the mix of client projects (and hence fee levels) remains the same; and (b) the project staffing (or leverage) is such that the same proportion of
senior or partner time is required to handle each project; then the number of seniors or partners that the firm requires will correspond exactly to the growth rate. In consequence
of this, the profit pool may increase because of the higher volume, but it must be shared among a corre­ spondingly increased number of partners. If per-partner profits are to
increase, then one of the two conditions must be broken. Either the firm must bring in a different mix of busi­ ness commanding higher billing rates (i.e., find higher-value work
for its people to do), or it must find ways to serve the same kinds of work with an ever increasing proportion of junior time, and a declining proportion of senior time. It is
interesting to note that few prominent professional firms act as TABLE 1 -4 The Economics of Guru Associates (Year 5 in constant dollars) Level No. Target Utilization Target
Billable Hours @ 2,000 Hours per Person per Year Senior 10 75% 15,000 $200 $3,000,000 Middle 20 75% 30,000 $100 Junior 50 90% 90,000 $50 Billing Rate Fees Salary per Individual
Total Salaries $3,000,000 $75,000 $1,500,000 $4,500,000 $32,000 $1,600,000 $10,500,000 TOTALS Fees $10,500,000 Salaries (3,100,000) Contributions $7,400,000 Overhead * $3,200,000
Partner Profits $4,200,000 Per Partner * Assume overhead costs of $ 4 0 ,0 0 0 per professional $420,000 $3,100,000 18 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm if growth were
profit neutral. Indeed, rapid growth is often listed as a primary goal of the firm, and advances in top-line growth are used as a primary internal and external measure of success.
If justified in the name of providing career opportunities for staff, this indeed makes sense. However, if desired on profitability grounds, it would appear that many professional
firms are fooling themselves! SUMMARY: THE KEY ROLE OF LEVERAGE Perhaps the most significant management variable to be disclosed by the previous analysis is the choice of the mix
of projects undertaken, and the implications this has for the (average) project team (i.e., le­ verage) structure. As we have seen, this latter variable is a significant force in
influencing the economics of the firm, its organizational struc­ ture, and its positioning in the client and people markets. The leverage structure, in the sense used in this book—
as the average or typical proportion of time required from professionals at different levels— has not been a variable that is routinely monitored by firm manage­ ment. However, as
we have shown, its role in balancing the firm is critical. It is possible, and not uncommon, for the firm’s project team struc­ ture to change over time. If it is possible to
deliver the firm’s services with a greater proportion of juniors, this will in general reduce the costs of the project. Competition in the market for the firm’s services will, over
time, require the firm to seek out lower costs for projects of a particular type, and there will often be opportunities for an increas­ ing proportion of juniors to be used on
projects that, in the past, required a high proportion of senior time. What in past years had the characteristics of a Brains or Grey Hair project may, in future years, be
accomplishable as a Procedure project. When considering new projects to undertake, it is usually more profitable for the firm to engage in one similar to that recently per­ formed
for a previous client. The knowledge, expertise, and basic ap­ proaches to the problem that have already been developed (often through a significant personal and financial
investment) can be capi­ talized upon by bringing them to bear on a similar or related problem. Frequently the second project can be billed out to the client at a similar (or only
slightly lower) cost, since the client perceives (and receives) something equally custom-tailored: the solution to his problem. How­ ever, the savings in costs incurred by the firm
in delivering this cus- A Question of Balance 19 tomization are not all shared with the client (if, indeed, any are). The firm thus makes its most money by “leading the market” :
being able to sell as a fully customized service (at a fully customized price) what increasingly becomes a service with reproducible, standardized ele­ ments. While it is in the
best interests of the firm that similar or repetitive engagements be undertaken, this is often not in accord with the desires of the individuals involved. Most individuals that
join professional firms do so out of the desire for professional challenge and variety and the avoidance of routine and repetition. While they may be content to undertake a similar
project for the second or third time, they will not be for the fourth or sixth or eighth. The solution, of course, is to convert the past experience and ex­ pertise of the
individual into the expertise of the firm by accepting the similar project, but utilizing a greater proportion of juniors on secondor third-time projects. Apart from requiring a
lesser commitment of time from the experienced seniors, this device serves the admirable purpose of training the juniors. For all these reasons, we might suspect that, over time,
the propor­ tion of juniors to seniors required by the firm in a particular practice area will tend to increase. If this is allowed to proceed without corre­ sponding adjustments
in the range of practice areas, the basic project team structure of the firm will alter, with significant impacts on the economics and organization of the firm. The dangers of
failing to monitor the project team structure are thus clearly revealed. Examples of failure in this regard abound in many professions. One consulting firm which learned how to
utilize junior professionals in­ creasingly in serving its clients aggressively began to hire new junior staff. After what all concerned considered the reasonable period of time
for the promotion decision, the firm realized that, at the rate it had been growing, it could not promote its normal proportion of can­ didates: It did not need as many partners
and managers in relation to the number of juniors it now had. Morale in the junior ranks suffered, as did productivity. (This latter impact was not surprising: there is a close
connection between morale, commitment, and productivity in professional service firms.) An investment banking firm discovered that, over a period of years, it had so increased the
range of analyses and services it provided in 20 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm advising its clients that it, too, needed more juniors on each project. Successfully
integrating this new project team structure required ma­ jor changes in all of the firm’s administrative procedures, particularly its human resource and professional development
activities. For these firms, as for all professional service firms, successful management be­ came a question of balance. CHAPTER 2 THE PROFESSIONAL FIRM LIFECYCLE In any
professional service there are three key benefits that clients seek: expertise, experience, and efficiency. However, even within the same practice area, the relative priority that
a given client places on these elements can vary dramatically. A client with a large, complex, high-risk, and unusual problem will appropriately seek out the most creative,
talented, or innovative individual or firm he can find— at almost any cost. Prior experience in the clients’ industry, or past ex­ posure to problems of a similar type, may be
useful but are secondary to the client’s need for frontier expertise. While many professionals would like to believe that all client needs fall into this Brain Surgeon category,
such clients represent only a small proportion of the aggregate fees spent in any given practice area. A much larger client base exists for what I term Grey Hair approaches to
practice. These types of client recognize that their problems have probably been faced and dealt with by other companies, require less complete customization, and are probably not
crisis issues. Accord­ ingly, they will be shopping less for the sheer brain power of critical individuals and more for an organization that can bring past experi­ ence to bear in
solving these problems. A high level of expertise is still required, and efficiency is not irrelevant, but extensive experience with similar problems is worth more to the client
than an extra degree of intellect or a few dollars of savings. 21 22 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm There will also exist within the same practice area a third group of
clients, who have problems that they know can be handled compe­ tently by a broad range of firms. Rather than looking for the highest possible expertise, or the most prior
experience, these clients will be seeking out a professional firm that can meet their needs for a prompt start, quick disposition, and low cost: They will seek the efficient firm.
Since clients of each of these types exist within every practice area, it would be tempting for a practice group to try and respond to all of these various needs, particularly in
these competitive days when pro­ fessional firms are hungry for increased revenues. However, accom­ modating the varying needs of these different types of clients within a single
practice group is an almost impossible task. A group that wishes to attract the “high expertise” engagements must organize its affairs and methods of doing business in such a way
that will make it an unlikely candidate to be chosen by a client who places most emphasis on efficiency and, of course, vice versa. Rather than discrete categories, the expertise,
experience, and effi­ ciency labels are obviously meant to describe only points along a spec­ trum of practice (see Figure 2 -1 ). However, as we shall see below, every aspect of a
practice group’s affairs, from practice development to hiring, from economic structure to governance, will be affected by its relative positioning on this spectrum. Increasingly,
firms will have FIG U RE 2 - 1 Spectrum of Practice BRAINS GREY HAIR PROCEDURE High Diagnosis Intensive High Execution Intensive Highly Customized Programmatic High Client Risk Low
Client Risk Few Qualified Vendors Many Qualified Vendors High Fees High Fee Sensitivity The Professional Firm L i f e cycle 23 to decide which type of client need they are
attempting to serve, and organize their affairs appropriately. THE EXPERTISE PRACTICE To justify this conclusion, we shall examine, in turn, the optimal forms of management for
each of the three types of practice. First, imagine a professional practice group (or firm) that focuses its attentions on serving the needs of clients with frontier problems. How
would you run such a practice? True to the professions’ traditional self-image of being elite practi­ tioners, the staffing requirements of this “expertise-based” practice would be
such that the firm would need to seek out and attract only the top percentile graduates from the best schools, in order to generate top-notch apprentices who could meet the quality
needs of the fron­ tier practice. Training would best be accomplished through an infor­ mal apprenticeship system and, since standards would be high, a rigorous up-or-out promotion
system would ensure that the firm re­ tained only the best and the brightest. While some large-scale engagements might require large numbers of junior professionals to draft
documents, perform analyses, or con­ duct client interviews, most expertise engagements would tend to re­ quire a high percentage of senior professional time, due to the high
diagnostic component in the work. Accordingly, we would expect the expertise practice area to be relatively unleveraged, with low fixed costs and high margins. The firm would make
its profits through high billing rates or some form of value billing, justifiable and sustainable because of the criticality, complexity, and risk in the client engage­ ment.
Optimal marketing of an expertise practice matches closely the forms of practice development traditional in the professions. Since for this type of critical engagement the client
would be seeking the best available talent, prominence and reputation would be the keys to winning clients. The best practice development techniques would be writing articles or
books, giving speeches or being quoted in the appropriate media, thus establishing credentials as an “expert.” Prac­ tice development would tend to revolve more around building the
reputation of individuals rather than the firm, as in the common client comment “I hire lawyers, not law firms.” Reputation within the pro­ fession would play an important role in
practice development. 24 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm Since few clients would have regular ongoing needs for top-flight critical expertise, the client mix of
professionals practicing in this area would tend to be diverse, and constantly shifting. With relatively low leverage and an up-or-out system, the internal pressure for growth
would be less than in other practice area types and (appropriately) growth would not be a major goal for the firm. As in all aspects of firm management, the best form of governance
in an expertise-based practice area would fit the traditional profes­ sional mold: a collegial partnership of peers headed (if at all) by a leader who symbolizes the firm’s
commitment to high standards. De­ cision making would be by consensus, and management (to the extent that it existed) would largely be accomplished by inspiration. The autonomy of
the individual partner would be among the most su­ preme virtues in the firm, with little use made of formal internal struc­ turings. No individual or group of individuals could be
said to “own” the firm. Rights to participation in the firm’s future profits would be “given away” by senior professionals in order to retain top talent. THE EXPERIENCE-BASED
PRACTICE Now consider a firm whose practice-mix was made up predominantly of clients who, rather than needing the profession’s most creative tal­ ent, wanted to find a firm that
had accumulated experience in han­ dling certain types of problems, and would not take an expensive “start with a blank sheet of paper” approach to the problem. The marketing task
of such a firm would be different. Rather than relying on individual talents, the firm would need to create more of an insti­ tutional reputation, based not only on the “raw”
talent of key indi­ viduals but on the ability of the firm to bring to bear its collective knowledge derived from past engagements. For such firms, practice development would
involve identifying, documenting, and promoting their specialized knowledge, through brochures describing previous engagements, client newsletters, or spe­ cial seminars on topics
related to the firm’s particular area of experi­ ence. Experience based practice areas would tend to have a more clearly focused and stable mix of clients, with steady
relationships becoming increasingly important. In contrast to the “frontier practitioners,” the work content of the typical engagement would require less time spent on diagnosis
and The Professional Firm Lifecycle 25 more on executing increasingly predictable (if still technically de­ manding) tasks. Accordingly, the ratio of junior to senior professional
time would increase, with profits from increased leverage offsetting the generally lower billing rates. It is in this middle experience stage of practice area maturity that
time-and-expenses billing practices would be (and are) most relevant and common in all professions. The firm’s hiring needs would expand to include a major role for less skilled
professionals and more paraprofessionals, since the in­ creased structuring of familiar engagement types would allow the firm to employ an increasing degree of systems and
procedures and hence require less mature talent. Training approaches would become in­ creasingly formal with greater use of out-of-hours classroom sessions and practice manuals.
Since individuals who had worked in the firm for any period of time and absorbed the knowledge and skills of the firm would remain pro­ ductive and marketable team members even if
they did not have the abilities to progress to the top rank, there would be less need for the firm to enforce an up-or-out system, and it could make use of a system of “permanent
associates.” While the need for senior talent would remain high, the group could accommodate a broader array of talents since it would have the ability to empower an individual by
supple­ menting his or her talents with the experience base of the firm. Hiring could not only be more broad based (the group would not have to restrict its attentions purely to
the upper reaches of the grade-point average), but could accommodate increasing numbers of lateral ex­ perienced hires. Training would need to become a little more formal and
structured in order to capture and disseminate internally the firm’s experience base. Because of a greater requirement for team approaches in delivering services, the need to
disseminate internally and organize the firm’s collective experience and knowledge, professionals in the firm would become more interdependent and there would be a greater need for
formally recognized departments and areas of specialization. The managerial task of focusing the collective efforts of the firm’s princi­ pals around carefully chosen areas of
experience would become in­ creasingly important, and firm management, a more clearly delineated position, more formally recognized. While growth might still be controlled, there
would be increasing pressure to provide career opportunities to the proportionately larger 26 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm number of junior professionals who had
accumulated valuable expe­ rience that the firm could ill afford to lose. Since the value added that the firm brings to its clients would be less embedded in individual people and
more in the firm’s collective experience, a greater sense of equity ownership would prevail, and new partners or shareholders might be required to buy their future participation in
firm profits by contributing to partnership capital or, in some instances, purchasing shares. THE EFFICIENCY-BASED PRACTICE Finally, let us consider a practice area that had a high
preponderance of clients who were mostly interested in the efficiency with which the firm dealt with low-risk, familiar types of problems. The firm would be squarely in the
business of demonstrating that it had established systems and procedures to handle specific types of problems. Cost, reliability, speed, and other such characteristics would come
to the fore, and practice development tactics would involve highly targeted and specialized brochures, competitive presentations and, as in some professions today (including
accounting, medicine, architecture, and investment banking), selected use of advertisements promoting spe­ cific services. The client mix in such practices would tend to be fo­
cused around a core of high volume clients. Client fee sensitivity would require that engagements be staffed at the most junior level possible, including maximum possible use of
paraprofessionals and increasing use of technology to substitute for professional labor. Fee pressures would be offset by increasing use of staff and technology leverage; and
pricing would increasingly become a matter of fixed-price contracts or bids. As yet infrequent in some professions (such as law), fixed-price contracts or bids are increas­ ingly
common in investment banking, medicine, consulting, and ar­ chitecture. Efficiency practices, with their relatively high fixed cost structure and many juniors, would need to take a
more studied, planned ap­ proach to growth in order to capture the volume necessary to offset lower margins. The needs for both management and administration would increase, in
order to devise optimum ways of dealing with fa­ miliar engagement types and to monitor and supervise the project teams to ensure that the best procedure is indeed being followed.
Rather than the heavy use of judgment employed in expertise-based The Professional Firm Lifecycle 27 practices, efficiency practices have high needs for short-interval mea­
surement systems both for quality assurance and productivity. Rather than inspirational leadership styles, efficiency based practices would need managers who are disciplined,
organized, and detail oriented. Since the value-added of the firm would be more solidly based in its operating systems, procedures, and marketing programs, rather than on the
individual talents of the professionals, ownership would tend to be closely guarded. Indeed, in a wide variety of professions, there are an increasing number of efficiency-based
practices formally orga­ nized as corporations, with equity ownership held by a small group. Transfers of ownership are accomplished by selling stock, internally or externally, at
fair market value. OTHER DIFFERENCES In the analysis above, we have found significant and incompatible differences between the three “ideal” practice types in marketing, pric­ ing,
leverage structure, hiring needs, promotion structure, ownership structure, and leadership styles. Yet these are not the only differences to which one can point. For example, as
one examines a variety of professions, it is also possible to identify different location strategies across the spectrum of practice types. Expertise-based practices, as a
generalization, tend to be based in a single location relying on the development of a national or regional reputation to attract clients. As the practice matures through experience
to efficiency-based practices, it is more common to find multiple-location firms, frequently orga­ nized into profit centers. This evolution is to be expected, since the essence of
a multiple-location strategy is to enhance the ability of the individual office to serve clients by drawing upon the experience base and systems of the network. Compensation
approaches also vary significantly over the practice life cycle. At the expertise end, it is appropriate (and not uncommon) to find profit-sharing and bonus pool systems for junior
professionals, while in experience-based practices greater use is made of straight salary, with increases deriving from seniority and the accumulation of increasing amounts of
experience. At the efficiency stage, salary struc­ tures can frequently be found (for example, in accounting and engi­ neering firms) which are, in essence, better described as
wage systems, with provisions for overtime payments for the most junior personnel. Not only do the tactics of marketing change over the professional 28 M anaging the P rofessional
Service F irm life cycle, but so does the organizational responsibility for practice development. In expertise practice areas, business development tends to be a personal
responsibility of each partner (or partner equivalent). As the practice area matures, the firm needs to develop more struc­ tured, organizationally based approaches to market. In
some profes­ sions (including actuarial services, engineering, and medicine), certain service areas have evolved to the point that they require the equivalent of an in-house
marketing department, headed by a marketing special­ ist from outside the profession. IMPLICATIONS The degree to which professional marketplaces have already recog­ nized and
embodied the overwhelming differences between expertise, experience, and efficiency practices varies significantly. In some, such as architecture, consulting, or public relations,
where competition has been intense, differences between firms practicing at different parts of the spectrum are readily identifiable. In other professions, the differ­ ences are
only now beginning to emerge. Two trends in the professions make understanding (and imple­ menting) the distinctions between expertise, experience, and effi­ ciency practices
critical to the success of the professional service firm. First, greater sophistication of clients means that they are increasingly able to analyze their true needs in different
types of engagements and distinguish between firms whose style of practice matches the specific benefit they seek. Second, the evolution of practice areas through the stages of the
spectrum is becoming very rapid. In every profession, one can point to practice areas that, in only a few short years, moved rapidly from being frontier activities handled only by
a handful of innovative firms to high-volume practices offered by increasingly large numbers of competent firms. As this evolution takes place, firms are continually confronted
with a basic dilemma. On the one hand, they can choose to follow a prac­ tice area down its life cycle, adapting organization structures, staffing strategies, pricing, leadership
styles, and all else we have discussed above to the new requirements of the marketplace. Of course, in so doing they will be transforming the fundamental nature of their firm. The
life cycle of the practice becomes a life cycle for the firm. On the other hand, they can choose to gradually abandon maturing practice areas in order to maintain stability in firm
culture and management, The Professional Firm Lifecycle 29 requiring them to move into new practice areas that more closely match the basic approach of the firm. The third
available (and most frequently selected) option—main­ taining a firm with diverse practices at various stages of the life-cycle spectrum— is a challenging managerial task. The
conflicting eco­ nomic, behavioral, and managerial requirements of different practice areas are sufficiently great to create severe internal tensions and stress as firms struggle
to establish firmwide management philosophies to accommodate these diverse needs. The most common, and successful, approach to resolving these ten­ sions is through the use of
departments and divisions: in effect estab­ lishing “Chinese walls” between operating groups, allowing each to evolve its own management approaches, appropriate to the market­
place it serves. As potentially divisive as this may sound, it is fre­ quently a more sensible solution than the attempt to impose increasingly inappropriate management practices
on a firmwide basis. A classic illustration of this approach is given by some large account­ ing firms who allow variations in various management practices be­ tween their
accounting, tax, and consulting divisions. One can even observe elements of this approach inside law firms where litigation, corporate, tax, mergers & acquisitions groups, and
others appear to be run (appropriately) on very different bases. In firms that take this approach, it is important to ensure that the aggregate mix of practice area “ maturities”
remains reasonably sta­ ble, and evolves gradually, if at all. Even if a firm has a diverse mix­ ture, there nevertheless remain certain aspects of firm management that must be
addressed at the firm level. How these are decided is heavily influenced by the relative proportions of expertise, experience, and efficiency practices that make up the firm. A
firm cannot be run smoothly if one year its practice is dominated by fees from expertise services and the next year efficiency services are in greatest demand. For many firms the
greater course of wisdom may be to reach for some internal consistency between and among its practice areas, so that a single approach to management practice can be devised. Such
consistency would provide not only internal benefits, but also a com­ mon identity in the marketplace. Experience has shown that it is dif­ ficult, if not impossible, for one part
of the firm to create a strong “frontier expertise” reputation when the firm is already well known as a low-cost provider. Similarly, a firm with a national reputation as 30 M
anaging the P rofessional Service F irm being on the cutting edge is unlikely to be able to create and sustain a group going after the mature marketplace segments. In most profes­
sions, a consistent image in the marketplace is a valuable asset, which can be rapidly compromised if the firm attempts to serve too diverse a set of client needs. Few firms, in my
experience, have a clear picture of their true positioning along the expertise, experience, efficiency spec­ trum. Indeed, given the diversity of practices contained inside many
professional firms, no single answer could be derived. It is this reason above all that has led to the failure of so many strategic planning and firmwide marketing efforts inside
professional firms. A second problem for firms attempting to understand their true market positioning is the natural temptation of all professionals to underestimate the progress
of a practice area down the life cycle. In numerous (anonymous) surveys I have conducted inside professional firms, I have been consistently surprised at how high a proportion of
their personal work professionals at all levels report could be done by more junior staff. (Firmwide averages sometimes exceed 30 or 40 per­ cent. ) Even allowing for some client
preferences to deal with high level professionals, these results show that many practice groups continue to maintain expertise-based approaches to running their affairs when their
marketplace is probably closer to the efficiency stage. Given the broad array and diversity of client needs, there is plenty of room in the professions for firms and practices of
all types. There will always be a need for expertise-based firms, experience-based firms, and efficiency-based firms, any one of which, if managed ap­ propriately, can be as
successful as any other. However, we will in­ creasingly see these firms being run in very different ways. The message is simple: Match management practices to the practice.
CHAPTER 3 PROFITABILITY: HEALTH AND HYGIENE In a partnership, the ultimate measure of profitability is (or should be) profit per partner, which is driven by three main factors,
margin, p ro­ ductivity, and leverage. As Figure 3-1 shows, “profit per partner” should be viewed as the professional firm equivalent of “return on equity.” The time and ef­ forts
of the partners (who have a claim on the profits of the firm) can be seen as the firm’s equity investment (often called “sweat equity” ). The total assets employed in the business
are the sum of the (partner) equity investment, and the nonpartner staff, whose sal­ aries are comparable to assets financed by debt, at a fixed interest rate. In managing a
professional firm, as with any business with mul­ tiple products or service lines, or multiple locations, it is a mistake to place too much stress on one of these three subfactors
(margin, pro­ ductivity, or leverage). Different operating units can and do achieve high profit per partner in different ways. Some offices, practice units, or even individual
partners, will achieve it by being in high margin businesses, perhaps with modest leverage. Alternately, another of­ fice, practice unit, or partner may achieve an equally high
profit per partner with thin margins and modest productivity but high lever­ age. 31 32 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm FIG U RE 3 - 1 Profitability Formulas The Dupont
formula for industrial companies: Profits Profits Sales Assets --------------- = Equity --------------- X Sales --------------- X Assets --------------- Equity = Margin x
Productivity x Leverage The formula for professional firms: Profits ---------------- Partner = Profits ------------- Fees X Fees ----------- Staff X Staff -------------------
Partners Unfortunately, in many firms, the reporting systems do not provide equitably for these varying paths to profitability. For example, chargeability and realization reports
are circulated more frequently and more broadly than reports showing how well partners leverage themselves. Consequently, an individual partner who fails to leverage himself but
has high personal chargeability and high realization (i.e., good pro­ ductivity) will show up “better” in the firm’s reporting systems than one who is less personally chargeable
and commands a lower hourly fee, but keeps five juniors busy. However, the leveraged partner’s ac­ tivities may “throw off” more cash into partnership profits than the unleveraged
partner. Rather than establish firmwide goals for margins, productivity, or leverage, firms should hold each practice (or partner) accountable for a profit per partner target and
