noncompetitive, the existing client situation usually implies less pressure on fees, and a greater ability to charge full rates: The client has already been exposed to the firm and
its ability to deliver value for money. In new-client situations, where the firm and its capabilities are unknown, prospects will always be more skeptical and fee-sensitive. A
final factor contributing to greater potential profitability with existing clients is that there is a higher probability that the firm can work with them, over time, to integrate
more juniors into the delivery of services to the client, by building up the client’s acceptance of, and comfort with, the juniors. In contrast, a new client may not be fully
comfortable with this new provider, and will often insist on extensive Marketing to Existing Clients 99 senior-professional involvement. Thus new client opportunities may be less
leveraged than is possible with existing clients, and the higher profitability that comes with greater leverage is more difficult to achieve. A fourth reason to give priority to
existing clients is that if firms are to grow their capabilities, and strengthen their position in the mar­ ketplace, then they must conscientiously pay attention to the types of
work they bring in. They must seek new types of work that give the firm the opportunity to stretch and build its skills. By very definition, the firm does not have an established
track record of performing this work, and it is work that is hard to market to a new prospect. How­ ever, once existing clients have developed an appropriate level of trust and
confidence in their providers, they are more likely to “give them the chance” to work on more challenging matters. It is in the existing client base that firms are most likely to
find the opportunity to con­ duct the type of work that not only contributes to this year’s bottom line, but adds to its capability to earn more (and higher) fees in the future: to
make a contribution to the firm’s intellectual capital, and not just exploit its existing capabilities. THE IMPORTANCE OF WINNING NEW CLIENTS If existing clients offer such
attractions, why is that so many profes­ sional firms devote the vast bulk of their nonbillable marketing time (and budget) to the pursuit of new clients? Part of the answer, of
course, is that a steady flow of new clients is important to any professional firm. New clients are needed to “reseed the gene pool,” by providing new environments for the
professionals to work in, and thus build skills. New clients provide a “freshness,” a “reinvigoration” that can be motivating to professionals who might have become overly familiar
with existing client situations. There ex­ ists somewhat of a link between the volume and variety of new clients, and the motivation, morale, dynamism, and enthusiasm of the pro­
fessional staff. If firms are active in nurturing existing client relations, existing cli­ ents can and do become “saturated,” creating the need for new clients. Even before this
state is achieved some firms are more comfortable pursuing new clients for fear that if they target existing clients too vigorously, they may be perceived by existing clients as
too “leech­ 100 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm like,” putting the firm’s need for additional revenues ahead of the client’s interests. Many firms give great priority to
getting new clients on the grounds that new clients are worth more to the firm than the value of the initial engagement, because they offer the potential for additional future rev­
enues. This simple insight leads to an important conclusion about the relationship between new client marketing efforts and marketing to existing clients. The weaker (or more
neglectful) a firm is at develop­ ing new business from existing client relationships, the lower the value (and hence the “return on marketing investment” ) of getting new cli­
ents. The better the firm is at marketing to existing clients, the higher will be the value of its new client marketing activities. The issue then is not whether firms should
pursue one or the other, but rather, what the appropriate balance should be in expending the marketing effort and budget. As noted above, my research suggests that the balance
today is excessively tilted toward new clients and away from organized attention to generating new business from ex­ isting clients. We must now try to understand why this is so.
WHY IS THERE A RELATIVE NEGLECT OF EXISTING CLIENTS? I have learned from numerous conversations on this topic with con­ sultants, lawyers, accountants, actuaries, and other
professionals that primary among all the reasons for the relative overemphasis on new clients is the simple fact that pursuing and getting a new client is more fun. New clients
provide the “thrill of the chase” in a way that nur­ turing existing relationships does not. Pursuing a new client proposal opportunity usually has the characteristics of a
well-defined, finite project with relatively clear tasks and specific deadlines. Nurturing an existing relationship often has few inherent deadlines, little obvious structure, and
more ambiguous tasks. Consequently, it is reported to me, it is a less “satisfying” activity: It doesn’t provide the same “rush of adrenaline.” If this is indeed a basic human
proclivity (“We always give more love and attention to those we’re trying to seduce than those we’re married to” ), then it is unfortunate that firm management practices reinforce
rather than try to counteract this natural bias. In most firms, I have learned, there is a tendency to overreward the bringing in of new clients, and underreward bringing in new
business from existing Marketing to Existing Clients 101 clients. As one consultant expressed it to me, “When a new client is brought in, rockets go off, bells sound, your name
gets in the firm newsletter and you can bank on a good bonus. If you bring in an equivalent amount of business from existing clients, the management yawns and says ‘at last he’s
doing his job’ .” In similar spirit, obtaining new business from existing clients is of­ ten taken for granted: “If we do good work, they’ll give us the new business, so we don’t
need to spend nonbillable time on it.” A related attitude is: “If it’s an existing client, everything we do is, or should be, billable. Our marketing takes place on billable time.”
As might be expected, this posture frequently leads to the result that good market­ ing activities don’t get done. Accounting practices at some firms compound this problem. If all
time spent on existing clients must be accounted for, then things done in the name of pursuing more business from existing clients often show up in the accounts as extra costs (and
hence lower profitability) on the existing engagement. As a consequence, the desirable market­ ing activities are not done. There is something strange in such environments. In the
pursuit of a new prospect, often in competition with other firms, firms appear willing to spend hundreds of nonbillable hours pursuing opportuni­ ties that have lower probability,
happily “giving away” time to bring in new revenue. But they don’t or won’t invest an equivalent (or smaller) amount of nonbillable time to bring in an equivalent volume of new
business from existing clients. Existing clients are charged for what is readily given away to prospects. Further explaining why firms tend to overallocate time to new pros­ pects,
and underinvest in existing client marketing, is the fact that the types of marketing activities necessary to get the two types of new business are fundamentally different. As we
shall see below, the pur­ suit of new business from existing clients requires an “intimate” in­ volvement with the client and his or her business: It requires getting “close” to
the client, and developing a high level of interpersonal trust. By contrast, the activities that make up a campaign to pursue new prospects are less “high-touch,” less intimate,
more detached: Doing research on the prospect (rather than dealing with him or her), writing proposals, giving seminars, making structured presentations. For bet­ ter or for worse,
I have learned that many professionals are more comfortable pursuing new clients. 102 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm Another key explanation, I have found, is that at
many firms, mar­ keting is reactive—that is, responding to an external impetus such as an RFP (request for proposal). Accordingly, available marketing time is quickly filled with
activities initiated by these external stimuli. Since existing client opportunities must be actively sought out, and brought to the surface often before the client is aware of the
need, a reactive posture inevitably results in underexploitation of existing client op­ portunities. HOW TO MAKE IT HAPPEN It is clear that there are strong forces biasing
individuals and firms away from the targeting of existing clients. Many, if not most, pro­ fessional firms could benefit substantially from a studious look at how they are
allocating their nonbillable marketing time between new and existing clients, and deciding whether they could benefit from an ex­ plicit program of targeting existing clients more
than they do at present. It is equally clear that if such a program is to be implemented, firm management must take some concrete steps to make it happen. Fortunately, once a firm
has resolved to go in this direction, the man­ agement process necessary to make it happen is relatively easy to de­ scribe and to implement. The process begins with the
identification of the key client pros­ pects in the existing client base. As with all aspects of marketing, the fundamental rule is to focus and target one’s efforts on the best
op­ portunities. Accordingly, it is not wise to launch a program of mar­ keting to all existing clients, but only to those carefully selected prospects where the firm concludes
that (a) there are additional client needs that the firm can serve, and (b) the relationship is good enough to raise the probability that a marketing effort will pay off. This
review should be conducted by the head of the firm (or office) with the senior professional responsible for each client relationship. From this review process should come a ranking
and/or prioritization of the best opportunities. Next, it is necessary to establish a budget for each target account, including both out-of-pocket expenses and, more importantly,
the al­ located amount of time that should be spent on this opportunity, given the likelihood of generating this business and, of course, its attractive­ ness. M a r k e t i nt g t
o Existing Clients 103 This budgeting should be done on an equivalency principle: First, figure out how much non-billable marketing time the firm spends to obtain a given volume of
revenue. For example, the firm may discover that, on average, 100 person hours are spent to obtain a $200,000 engagement. If there are prospects of obtaining a $200,000 engage­
ment from an existing client, then the firm should be prepared to establish a marketing budget for the existing client that approximates this amount, usually being a little less
because marketing to existing clients should be more cost effective. As an illustration, the firm might conclude that the situation warrants fifty to seventy hours in nonbill­ able
marketing time for the designated existing client. Because of the accounting problem described above (confusion be­ tween chargeable activities for the current engagement and
nonchargeable time to get the next engagement), it is wise to establish this “Marketing to Client X ” budget as a separate, formal “charge num­ ber” in the firm’s accounts. Now
there is a budget and the firm should assign responsibility for that budget to the senior professional on the engagement. That individual is now responsible for two budgets—
running the current engagement for quality and profitability and us­ ing the marketing allocation to maximum effectiveness. An advantage of this approach is that it provides a
vehicle for each member of the client service team to get involved with the business development effort. Junior members of the team can (subject to the approval of the team leader)
charge time to the marketing budget when they engage in activities directly targeted at “developing the account.” Without such accounts, it is often difficult to get junior staff
members, subject to personal billability targets, to engage in these “nonbillable” tasks. Since there is only a finite, predesignated amount in the marketing budget, there is
little chance that excessive, unpro­ ductive nonbillable activities will result. The potential role of junior members of the engagement team in the marketing effort needs to be
stressed. They often have more frequent and direct client contact (especially in the research and interview stages of the project) than more senior professionals and are in a bet­
ter position to pick up the signals and clues that the client organiza­ tion has additional needs. One major consulting firm makes it a regular practice to hold meetings of the
client service team every two weeks, not to discuss the current engagement, but to ask each team member, from the most junior to the most senior, “What have you 104 M anaging the P
rofessional Service F irm learned about what is going on in the client organization since last we met two weeks ago?” Naturally, this practice forces each team mem­ ber to keep his
or her eyes and ears open and to operate continuously with two agendas: performing the current engagement and finding the next. Once the budget has been agreed upon, firm
management should require of those senior professionals who are responsible for the “tar­ get accounts” that they formally develop a written marketing plan for obtaining the target
client’s additional business. As with all market­ ing, a written, specific plan (with target dates) provides the structure and discipline to ensure that the desired activities are
actually carried out. Once the plan has been developed by the account team it should be reviewed and approved by the head of the firm (or office), and become a concrete commitment
against which subsequent activity can be reviewed and appraised. While this may sound excessively bureau­ cratic, I have learned that only in this way can the firm ensure that
execution follows. As we have noted above, there is an inherent bias against this sort of activity, and the (hopefully) continued arrival of RFPs will continually work to distract
senior professionals from exe­ cution of the existing client marketing plans. DESIGNING THE CLIENT-SPECIFIC MARKETING CAMPAIGN If a client service team has (as a rough
approximation) fifty to seventyfive hours to spend trying to get more business from an organization via an executive with whom they already work and have access to, what should
they do with this time to maximize the chances that ad­ ditional revenues will be obtained? Successful marketing to existing clients, I have learned, has three basic stages, none
of which may be omitted. They are: (a) making the client predisposed to use the firm again; (b) increasing the firm’s ca­ pabilities to serve the client; and (c) finding and
pursuing the next engagement. M AKING THE CLIEN T PRED ISPO SED TO U SE THE FIRM AGAIN The first element, making the client disposed to use the firm again, is probably the most
critical stage of the process. If the firm is to win new Marketing to Existing Clients 105 business from an existing client, then that client must not only be “satisfied” with the
firm’s services, but “superpleased.” The pursuit of new business thus requires that time and energy be expended on the current engagement, in order to lay the groundwork for the
subse­ quent “selling” effort. The activities involved here are those that most professionals would acknowledge as good client relations on any engagement, but which most
professionals would also acknowledge are often neglected or not fully performed. They include going the extra mile on the current engagement, increasing the amount of client
contact, building both the business and the personal relationship. Some specific tactics for this stage are shown in Table 9 -1 . None of these tactics are new: What may be new is
providing the budget, the incentive, and the specific plan to ensure that these activities actually take place. There is a pro­ found difference between acknowledging the wisdom of
the tactics listed in Table 9-1 , and having an organized plan of action to ensure their execution. One or two of the activities listed in Table 9-1 deserve some elab­ oration.
“Volunteering to attend client’s internal meetings” is a par­ ticularly powerful tactic. As an illustration, suppose that a client service team learns that its client is holding a
national meeting of, say, all of its branch managers, on a topic that is not covered by the team’s current engagement. The team leader could approach the client and say “Would you
like me (or one of my partners) to attend the meeting, free of charge, to be a resource to you?” Many, if not most, clients would accept such an offer, and the firm is then in the
position to accomplish two important marketing tasks: first, attend a client meet­ ing where the client’s problems, issues and needs are being discussed, and second, have the
opportunity to demonstrate expertise and be helpful on a new issue. In terms of getting new business, there is per­ haps no other tactic that has as great a return on time
invested. The list of tactics in Table 9-1 include building both the business relationship and the personal relationship. There is no better way to build a relationship than to
find some way to be helpful or useful to the other person. To get a favor (the next engagement) one must first give a favor (do something for the client, free of charge, that
demon­ strates both caring and a commitment). It should be stressed that, in terms of impact, building the business relationship takes precedence over the personal relationship.
Making a friend of the client is helpful, 106 M axaging the P rofessional Service F irm T A BL E 9 - 1 Making the Client Disposed to Use the Firm Again 1. Going the extra mile on
the current engagement Use new business budget to fund extra analysis Use budget to im prove turnaround time, service Im prove quality o f presentation M ore documentation,
explanations, accessibility 2. Increasing the amount of client contact Telephone regularly Visit at every opportunity Schedule business mettings near mealtime Invite to firm
offices Introduce one's partners Get firm leaders involved 3. Building the business relationship Help client with contacts Put on special seminars for client's sta ff Volunteer to
attend client's internal meetings O ffer free day o f counseling on nonproject matters Send client useful articles I f possible, refer business to client 4. Building the personal
relationship Social activities Rem em ber personal, family anniversaries Obtain scarce tickets Provide hom e telephone number O ffer use o f firm's facilities but only as a
supplement to, not a substitute for, a strong business relationship. IN CREASIN G THE F IR M ’S C A PA B IL IT IES The second stage of marketing to existing clients is the
investment of time in increasing the firm’s capabilities to serve the client. The goal Marketing to Existing Clients 107 here is to do those things that persuade the client that
the firm’s knowl­ edge and talent not only can be but are customized to the specific client situation. As in all marketing, new business from existing clients must be earned, by
being seen to work for it. As Table 9-2 suggests, some of the nonbillable marketing budget should be dedicated to en­ couraging and performing the familiar tasks of increasing the
firm’s knowledge of the client’s industry, business, organization, and the client himself or herself. These activities are not just symbolic ways of pleasing the client and
demonstrating interest. If done thoroughly and well, in a planned, systematic fashion (i.e., as part of a structured marketing plan), they T A BL E 9 - 2 Increasing the Firm ’s
Capabilities to Serve this Client 1. Increasing knowledge of client’s industry Study industry magazine/newsletters thoroughly Attend industry meetings with client Conduct
proprietary studies 2. Increasing knowledge of client’s business Read all client's brochures, annual reports, other public documents Ask to see strategic plan Volunteer to critique
internal studies Conduct reverse seminar 3. Increasing knowledge of client’s organization Ask fo r organization chart Ask w ho client deals with most Ask about the client's boss
Ask about pow er structure Arrange to meet other executives Spend time with client's juniors 4. Increasing knowledge of client Find out precisely how client is evaluated inside his
or her company Find out what he or she is unhappy with 108 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm will serve to uncover new client needs, reveal areas where the client is
dissatisfied with the current state of affairs (a critical condition for him or her to commit to a new project), and also provide the docu­ mentation and evidence to persuade the
client to proceed in new areas. In essence, the firm is “preparing the proposal” as it simultaneously improves its capability to be of value to the client. FINDING AND PURSUING THE
NEXT ENGAGEMENT The third and final category for which the nonbillable marketing bud­ get can be used is the explicit process of selling the client on the new project. As should be
clear, this task has not been neglected in the first two stages, which have included the traditional sales tasks of building trust and confidence, discovering client needs, and
demonstrating spe­ cialized capabilities. If done well, the third stage often requires little time. If they have not already been done, activities in this stage involve creating
opportunities to demonstrate initiative and competence (rather than waiting for them to arise). It requires a planned program of digging out intelligence on new needs, assembling
this evidence, and crafting opportunities to make the client aware of the new need. Table 9-3 lists some of the tactics that may be employed. CONCLUSION It should be clear that few
existing client opportunities would warrant the application of all of the tactics described in Tables 9-1 through 9-3. Rather, the tables should be seen as “menus” from which the
best selected set of tactics can be chosen which (a ) fit what has been deemed to be the appropriate level of effort in each specific case (i.e., what the budget is); and (b) are
most likely to be effective in the specific client situation. In all cases, however, some time must be spent on each of the stages. As a matter of effectiveness, one cannot skip
stages one and two entirely and hope to be productive with marketing efforts solely from category three. What should also be clear is that the time spent designing and ex­ ecuting
a targeted marketing campaign for a specific client along the lines described above would indeed be more likely to result in new work than the same amount of time spent trying to
generate new leads and convert those leads into new clients. As we have seen, both need Marketing to Existing Clients 109 T A BL E 9 -3 Finding and Pursuing the Next Engagement 1.
Creating opportunities to demonstrate initiative and competence Volunteer services o f on e’s partners Arrange meetings with on e’s partners 2. Digging out new intelligence on new
needs Use entire projects team to gather info. Get invited to their meetings Arrange to meet other executives Spend time with client sta ff at all levels 3. Assembling evidence of
new need Conduct additional analysis I f possible, conduct additional interviews Conduct special studies 4. Creating awareness of new need Bring problem areas to client’s attention
early (Find ways to worry client) Document evidence o f problem s Com pare client com pany’s statistics to others Share results o f w ork done fo r other clients 5. Finding
sponsor/friend/coach in client organization Figure out w ho wants change 6. Asking for the new engagement at the right time “Point ou t” opportunities early and often, with no
“hard sell” Concrete proposal only when confident it will be accepted to be done, but firms should not forego the ripe opportunities avail­ able in the existing client base. A
final, mandatory step in capturing these opportunities is to mod­ ify the reward systems of the firm so that each line professional per­ ceives that time spent on this activity is
valued by the firm at least as much as pursuing new clients. Rewards mean not just financial com­ pensation, but celebration, status, strokes, and hoopla. If firms wish 110 M
anaging the P rofessional Service F irm to capitalize on the new business opportunities available to them in their existing client base, they must ensure that their management
practices and behavior actively encourage and reward this activity. As we have noted, there is no, or little, argument in professional circles about the desirability of the
activities described above. There is, how­ ever, significant room for firms to move in creating the environment in which these activities will actually take place. If professional
firms’ management want the substantial benefits that flow from developing existing client relationships, they can have them. But they won’t occur automatically: They must be
explicitly managed. CHAPTER 10 HOW CLIENTS CHOOSE The single most important talent in selling professional services is the ability to understand the purchasing process (not the
sales process) from the clients’ perspective. The better a professional can learn to think like a client, the easier it will be to do and say the correct things to get hired.
Fortunately, this is not difficult. Most professionals have them­ selves been through the process of retaining other professionals: lawyers retain accountants, actuaries hire
consultants, and public re­ lations counselors, like the rest of us, need tax advice. All profession­ als can deepen their understanding of what’s really going on in the purchase
process by drawing upon their own experiences as a client. Professionals traditionally view their practice development task as divided into two stages, marketing (generating the
lead) and selling (converting a lead into a sale). From the buyer’s perspective, these two stages are experienced as qualification and selection. First, I, the client, try to
reduce the large number of possible firms and professionals that might be considered down to the set of those I judge to be qualified. In this qualification stage, I consider such
facts as “Who have you worked for?” “What are your capabilities?” “What depth of personnel do you have?” “How good are your references?” Except in the most unusual of situations,
where the problem is so 111 112 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm complex and high risk that there is only one viable candidate, even the most thorough due diligence
(examination of available facts, refer­ ences, interviewing of candidates, etc.) usually ends with more than one firm or individual that is technically qualified to handle my prob­
lem. Most typically, after exhausting my abilities as a client to make technical distinctions, I am still left with a choice of reputable firms with good references, all eminently
capable of solving my problem. This leads to an important conclusion: Unless their skills are truly unique, unmatched by any competitor, professionals are never hired because of
their technical capabilities. Excellent capabilities are essen­ tial to get you into the final set to be considered, but it is other things that get you hired. Once I have decided
which firms I will consider in the final set, my focus of enquiry shifts significantly. I am no longer asking “Can you do it?” but rather “Do I want to work with you?” I am no
longer interested in the institutional characteristics of your firm, but am now trying to form a judgment about you. By the fact that you are sitting here talking to me, you can
assume that you have successfully mar­ keted your firm: now the time has come to sell yourself. WHAT IT FEELS LIKE TO BE A BUYER Buying professional services is rarely a
comfortable experience. Table 10-1 lists some of the unpleasant emotions that are frequently felt. For one thing, I feel that I'm taking a personal risk. By hiring any­ one, I am
putting my affairs, or my company’s affairs, in the hands of someone else and have to give up some degree of control. This is my area of responsibility, and even though
intellectually I may know I need outside expertise, emotionally it is not comfortable to put my affairs in the hands of others. Even if the matter is relatively routine, I will
need convincing (beyond protestations of good intentions) that my problems will receive prompt and serious attention. Pm feeling insecure. Since I find it hard to detect which of
you is the genius, and who is just good, Pm going to have to commit myself without feeling totally confident about my decision. What is more, I don’t yet know if I’ve got a simple
problem or a complex one; that’s why I need you, the specialist, to help me. But, I'm not sure I can trust you to be honest about that: It’s in your interest to convince me it’s T
A BLE 1 0 -1 What It Feels Like to Be a Buyer 1. I’m feeling insecure. I’m not sure I know how to detect which of the finalists is the genius, and which is just good. I’ve
exhausted my abilities to make technical distinction. 2. I’m feeling threatened. This is my area of responsibility, and even though intellectually I know I need outside expertise,
emotion­ ally it’s not comfortable to put my affairs in the hands of others. 3. I’m taking a personal risk. By putting my affairs in the hands of someone else, I risk losing
control. 4. I’m impatient. I didn’t call in someone at the first sign of symp­ toms (or opportunity). I’ve been thinking about this for a while. 5. I’m worried. By the very fact of
suggesting improvements or changes, these people are going to be implying that I haven’t been doing it right up till now. Are these people going to be on my side? 6. I’m exposed .
Whoever I hire, I’m going to have to reveal some proprietary secrets, not all of which are flattering. I will have to un­ dress. 7. I’m feeling ignorant, and don’t like the
feeling. I don’t know if I’ve got a simple problem or a complex one. I’m not sure I can trust them to be honest about that: it’s in their interest to convince me it’s complex. 8.
I’m skeptical. I’ve been burned before by these kinds of people. You get a lot of promises: How do I know whose promise I should buy? 9. I’m concerned that they either can’t or
won’t take the time to understand what makes my situation special. They’ll try to sell me what they’ve got rather than what I need. 10. I’m suspicious. Will they be those typical
professionals who are hard to get hold of, who are patronizing, who leave you out of the loop, who befuddle you with jargon, who don’t explain what they’re doing or why, who . . .
, who . . . , who . . . ? In short, will these people deal with me in the way I want to be dealt with? 114 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm complex. You professionals are
always making mountains out of molehills. Nothing is ever easy. I’m skeptical. I’ve been burned before by these kinds of people. I get a lot of promises: How do I know whose
promise I should buy? I’m concerned that you either can’t or won’t take the time to understand what makes my situation special. Will you be one of those typical professionals who
are hard to get hold of, who are patronizing, who leave you out of the loop, who befuddle you with jargon, who don’t explain what they’re doing or why, who . . . In short, will you
deal with me in the way I want to be dealt with? To a degree, I am also exposed. Whoever I hire, I’m going to have to reveal some proprietary secrets, not all of which are
flattering. I’m also a little threatened. You will be working on things for which I am responsible (marketing consultants are hired by the VP of marketing, lawyers by the general
counsel, actuaries by the benefits manager). By the very fact of suggesting improvements or changes, there is the risk that you will uncover things that I haven’t been doing right
up till now. Are you going to be my ally or my enemy? What all this reveals is that, among the set of qualified candidates, I am looking for the one I can trust. The act of hiring
a professional is, by very definition, an act o f faith. I must, inevitably, believe a promise. In selecting a professional, I am not just buying a service, I am entering into a
relationship. Your selling task is to earn my trust and confi­ dence—with an emphasis on the word “earn.” WHAT A BUYER LOOKS FOR How am I to determine with which candidate I want
to have a rela­ tionship? Certainly the answer is not contained in the promises you make. Talk is cheap. Someone who told me “Trust me, we’ll show a special interest in you,” is
not likely to win my confidence simply by that assertion. Inevitably, even if I view myself as a sophisticated buyer, I am forced to rely on clues obtained through the interview
process in order to guess at what kind of person you are. My impressions and perceptions are created by small actions that are meaningful for their symbolism, for what they reveal.
How you behave during the interview (or pro­ posal process) will be taken as a proxy for how you will deal with me after I retain you. Unlike the process of qualification, which is
pre­ How Clients Choose 115 dominantly rational, logical, and based on facts, the selection stage is mostly intuitive, personal, and based on impressions. The first thing that will
catch my attention is your preparation. There is little so off-putting as someone who begins the meeting by asking me some basic facts about my company or situation that she could
have found out in advance. It not only reveals laziness, but makes me feel like one more “cold call.” You don’t have a special interest in me, you’re on a fishing expedition,
trying to drum up some revenues. On the other hand, someone who can say “I noticed from your annual report that you recently opened a new plant. What has that meant for your
department?” has caught my attention. It may not have been intellectually challenging to read my annual report, but it shows that you do your homework. It tells me something about
you. The point can be taken further, for preparation is your opportunity to demonstrate initiative. Why not contact my industry association and get some comparison of my company’s
public data compared to that of my competitors? It will help you ask me more substantive questions, and will demonstrate your willingness to earn my business. If you want to bring
along some printed material, I will be a lot less impressed by your preprinted brochure than something that has clearly been put together for me. At least that shows a little
thought and consideration. Professionals who are overeager to impress, and thereby spend the whole meeting talking about their accomplishments, what their firm has done, and why
they are qualified to help me come across as in­ sensitive to me, my company, and my situation. It sounds like what it is: a standard spiel, reflecting no special interest in me. I
do not want to hear about you and your firm, I want to talk about me and my situation. The only way to influence me is to find out what I want, and show me how to get it. I hate to
be sold, but I may be willing to buy, if you can show me that I and my company have some problems to solve or some opportunities to capture. Getting me to acknowledge that there is
an opportunity or a problem won’t necessarily be easy, because I’m suspicious of your motives. First you must make me feel comfortable. Perhaps ask me what’s going well. Give me
some new information. Tell me what my competitors are up to. Tell me what you’ve been doing for other companies like mine. Find a way to be helpful to me. You’ve got to give a
favor to get a favor— 116 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm there’s no better way to win my trust than to be helpful to me right from the beginning. Someone who brings me
new ideas and suggestions, without pressuring me, comes across as someone who is really trying to help, and isn’t here just to ratchet up their own billable hours. If I’m your
prospect, treat me as if I were already a client. Give me an education. Tell me about alternate ways the common problems of my industry might be dealt with. Help me understand the
advantages and disadvantages of some of the things I have been read­ ing about. Ask me how I am doing things now, and use that as an opportunity to help me understand some options
I may have for doing things differently. Tell me something I didn’t know. If I walk away from the meeting saying “That was interesting, I hadn’t thought of that,” you’ve won. I may
or may not hire you today, but I’ll certainly want to talk to you again. Don’t be afraid to float high-risk ideas early (“just an idea” ). Demonstrate your creativity. I discount
all your assertions about your expertise until you give me some evidence to back them up. For example, don’t tell me about your experience in my industry (or on a particular
topic). Rather, illustrate it by asking questions that reveal your knowledge of key industry terminology, facts and figures, or latest events. That way, I’ll draw my own
conclusions (which I’m going to do anyway) about how well you understand my business and my issues. While I want you to know my industry, don’t patronize me by trying to tell me
what’s going on in my business. Instead of saying “Here’s the three most important things happening in your industry,” say “Our experience suggests that these are the three most
important things. Do you agree?” If I agree with you, fine. If I disagree, we can have a conversation. To avoid coming across as arrogant, patroniz­ ing, and pompous (common
experiences with you professionals), turn your assertions into questions. By doing so, you convert possible signs of assertiveness into evidence that you’ll respect my opinions,
involve me in the thinking process, and be sensitive to the need for a congenial relationship. Your manner of speech, how you choose to phrase your sentences, tells me something
about how you deal with clients. Make our meeting a conversation. Don’t talk all the time, and similarly don’t grill me. Show a sympathetic understanding of my role in my company.
Un­ derstand who I report to, how I’m measured, what my budgets are. By asking me about these things, I’ll believe you are treating me as a How Clients Choose 117 person, not just
a purchasing agent. This doesn’t mean I want you to wine and dine me or try to win my business by becoming my friend. It does mean that I want you to be sensitive to the fact that
your pro­ spective client (me) is a person, not a corporate entity. Don’t start telling me how you can solve my problems until I have acknowledged that there’s a problem or an
opportunity here. Simply asserting to me that I have problems or opportunities isn’t enough. If you say it, I can and will doubt you. If I say it, it’s true. The key talent in good
selling is being good at getting me, the client, to reveal my problems, needs, wants, and concerns. If I’m talking, telling you about my company and my needs, you’re ahead: if
you’re talking you’re losing. Professionals talk too much. Ask good questions and listen. As you try to get me talking about my problems, demonstrate your sensitivity. I do not
respond well to someone who asks me right up front “What are your problems?” That’s too assertive and you haven’t yet earned the right to an answer. Similarly, don’t ask “What’s
