Praise for Managing the Professional Service Firm by David H. Maister “David Maister steers clear of popular fads and grandiose theories. Instead, he offers a wealth of
common-sense, practical ideas that can be implemented quickly and easily. Managers of professional services firms should find his new book to be extremely rewarding.” — Lawrence A.
Weinbach, Managing Partner and Chief Executive, Andersen Worldwide “What Peter Drucker, Tom Peters and Warren Bennis have done with corporations, David Maister is doing for
professional service firms. His book cuts through all the entrepreneurial idiosyncrasies and pro­ vides a blueprint for managing the enterprise and institutionalizing success.” —
Tom Neff, President, SpencerStuart “No manager of a service business should be without this collection of sensible advice. David Maister’s ideas are among the most useful I have
found.” —Keith Reinhard, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, DDBNeedham Worldwide “A thoughtful and practical work from an experienced observer of law firm management. Readers of
every level of experience and so­ phistication will benefit from his practical advice.” — Mark Kessel, Managing Partner, Shearman & Sterling “David has the unusual ability to
combine the academic and the prac­ tical, with the result being credible, challenging and useful advice. Maister is a master for a service company that is driven to be the best.”
—Arthur J. Mirante II, President and Chief Executive Officer, Cushman & Wakefield, Inc. “David Maister’s approach has been highly effective in helping us understand our global
engineering and construction business, and in improving the effectiveness of business development in our group.” — Darryl Marshall, Vice President Sales, Mining and Metals Group,
Fluor Daniel, Inc. “David Maister’s insights on managing the professional services firm are always practical and insightful as well as analytical. His provoc­ ative metaphors and
analogies shine new light on old problems and make them seem manageable.” —Fred G. Steingraber, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, A. T . Kearney, Inc. “The more attention my
colleagues and I pay to what Maister says, the better our company performs.” —John Beardsley, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Padilla Speer Beardsley “David Maister is, quite
simply, the clearest, wittiest, smartest law firm strategist ever. And reading or listening to him is about as much fun as it is productive.” —Steven Brill, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, American Lawyer Media, L.P. “David Maister’s approaches to profitability measurement, service quality, business promotion and staff development have been widely
adopted. A key test of a management advisor is: ‘Will you act differ­ ently after exposure to his ideas and counsel?’ I consistently leave encounters with Maister with ideas which
when implemented pro­ duce real improvement.” — Edward G. Pringle, Executive Vice President, William M. Mercer, Incorporated “David Maister’s name is synonymous with the latest
thinking in pro­ fessional service firm management. This book suggests why.” —James L. Heskett, Professor, Harvard Business School; co-author of Service Breakthroughs “David
Maister’s work is not only intellectually stimulating and in­ spiring for professional practice leaders, but his articles are always practical, down-to-earth and readily
implementable. I have personally profited from David Maister’s advice, and I am convinced that his articles are most valuable to those who manage a professional firm anywhere in
the world.” —Egon P. S. Zehnder, Chairman, Egon Zehnder & Partner Inc. “David Maister’s grasp of both the theoretical and practical concepts that underlie the dynamics of a
professional partnership make him and his work incredibly valuable.” —Edward A. Kangas, Chairman and Chief Executive, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu International “David Maister’s
material is not only thought-provoking, it is actionprovoking. Golin/Harris has been a fan and a follower for years. This collection is a valuable resource for everyone in public
relations.” —Rich Jernstedt, President and Chief Executive Officer, Golin/Harris “I have found David Maister to be one of the best thinkers in the law firm consulting arena. His
writings apply common sense and a long background in business consulting to provide practical advice about law firm—and other professional service firm—management.” —Peter P.
Mullen, former Managing Partner, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom “When David Maister speaks, managers at professional service firms listen. There is no more knowledgeable
expert about professional ser­ vice firms than Dr. Maister.” —Paul H. Alvarez, Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, Ketchum Communications Worldwide “It is often said that one of an
executive’s biggest decisions these days is what to read and what to throw away. I always read David Maister’s articles. They are insightful and practical, and they demon­ strate a
true understanding of the issues facing professional service firms.” —John T . Lynch, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Towers Perrin “The work of Maister is a masterwork: the
art of managing the unmanageables.” —Rene Kottman, Managing Partner, Berenschot Group (Netherlands) “David Maister’s thoughts and writings apply original strategic in­ sight
combined with practical management advice to the difficult area of professional service management. I can think of no higher compli­ ment than that his thinking and advice are
being used on a daily basis in practice management across Europe.” —Willem Brocker, Coopers & Lybrand “David Maister understands the keys to success in professional ser­ vice
companies like no other. His insights are precise and his recom­ mendations manage to be both original and down to earth. Even the most successful managers of professional
companies can learn from his writings.” —Jon Moynihan, Group Chief Executive, PA Consulting Group (UK) “Maister’s work offers not only the strategic vision but the practical
deliverables for firms to differentiate themselves in an increasingly competitive marketplace. We’d like to keep this book a secret.” —Robert E. Hallagan, President and Chief
Executive Officer, Heidrick & Struggles Inc. “Maister’s work is enjoyable because it follows the three R ’s— it is readable, relevant and, most important, it deals with reality. He
is always both stimulating and practical.” —Ian Brindle, Chairman, Price Waterhouse, U.K. “Maister is a master at identifying the management issues and prob­ lems faced by law firm
leaders. The solutions he presents are incisive and insightful. His written materials are excellent— almost as good as his personal presentations. This collection is recommended
reading.” —Donald J. Greene, Chairman, LeBoeuf, Lamb, Leiby & MacRae MANAGING the PROFESSIONAL SERVICE FIRM DAVID H. MAISTER FREE PRESS PAPERBACKS Published by Simon & Schuster NEW
YORK LONDON TORONTO SYDNEY SINGAPORE TO KATHY AS THE YEARS GO BY, MY LOVE . FR EE PRESS PAPERBACKS A Division of Simon & Schuster Inc. 1230 Avenue of the Americas FREE PRESS
PAPERBACKS New York, N Y 1 0 020 Copyright © 1993 by David H. Maister All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or in part in any form. First Free Press
Paperbacks Edition 1997 F r EE P ress P aperbacks and colophon are trademarks of Simon Schuster Inc. Manufactured in the United States of America 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Library of
Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data Maister, David H. Managing the professional service firm / David H. Maister. p. cm. Includes bibliographical references (pp. 3 6 5 -6 6 )
and index. 1. Professional corporations— Management. H D 6 2 .6 5 .M 35 I. Title. 1993 6 5 8 — dc20 9 3 -1 4 6 1 6 CIP ISBN 0 -0 2 -9 1 9 7 8 2 -1 0 -6 8 4 -8 3 4 3 1 -6 CREDITS
Chapter 1: “A Question of Balance.” An earlier version of this chapter was published under the title, “Balancing the Professional Service Firm,” by David H. Maister, in the Fall
1982 issue of the Sloan M anagement Review (Volume 24, no. l), reprinted by permission of the publisher. Copyright 1982 by the Sloan Management Review As­ sociation. All rights
reserved. Chapter 2: “The Professional Firm Lifecycle.” An earlier version of this article was published under the title, “The Three E’s of Professional Life,” by David H. Maister,
in the Jou rnal o f M anagement Consultings Vol. 3, No.2, pp.39-44( 1986). Copyright 1986 the Jou rnal o f M anagement Consulting. Chapter 3: “Profitability: Health and Hygiene.”
First published in the July 1991 issue of the International Accounting Bulletin. Copyright 1991 David H. Maister. Chapter 4: “Solving the Underdelegation Problem.” First published
in the January 1991 issue of the International Accounting Bulletin. Copyright 1991 David H. Maister. Chapter 5: “The Practice Development Package.” First published in the April
1993 issue of The American Lawyer. Copyright 1993 David H. Maister. Chapter 6: “ Listening to Clients,” by David H. Maister. Reprinted by permission of Business Quarterly,
published by the Western Business School, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada. Spring 1989 issue. Chapter 7: “Quality Work Doesn’t Mean Quality Service.”
David H. Maister is a contributing author for The American Lawyer. This article is reprinted from the April 1984 issue of the American Lawyer. © 1984 The American Lawyer. Chapter
8: “A Service Quality Program.” A version of this chapter appeared in the October 1992 issue of The American Law yer, under the title, “Turning Talk into Action.” Copyright 1992
David H. Maister. Chapter 9: “Marketing to Existing Clients.” First published in the Jou rnal o f Man­ agement Consultings Vol. 5, No.2, pp. 25 -3 2 (1989). Copyright 1989 Journal
o f Management Consulting. V vi Credits Chapter 10: “How Clients Choose.” First published in The American Law yer, Oc­ tober 1991. Copyright 1991 David H. Maister. Chapter 11:
“Attracting New Clients.” First published in November and December 1992 issues of The American Lawyer. Copyright 1992 David H. Maister. Chapter 12: “Managing the Marketing Effort.”
First published in the International Accounting Bulletin, January 1992. Copyright 1992 David H. Maister. Chapter 14: “How to Build Human Capital.” David H. Maister is a
contributing author for The American Lawyer. This article is reprinted with permission from the June 1984 issue of The American Law yer. © 1984 The American Lawyer. Chapter 15:
“The Motivation Crisis.” David H. Maister is a contributing author for The American Lawyer. This article is reprinted with permission from the December 1985 issue of The American
Lawyer. © 1985 The American Lawyer. Chapter 16: “ On the Importance of Scheduling.” An earlier version of this chapter was published under the title, “Job Scheduling Sets the Pace
in Professional Firms,” by David H. Maister, in the Jou rnal o f M anagement Consulting, vol. 1, No. 1 (1982). Copyright 1982 Jou rn al o f M anagement Consulting. Chapter 17: “On
the Meaning of Partnership.” David H. Maister is a contributing author for The American Lawyer. This article is reprinted with permission from the October 1983 issue of The
American Lawyer. © 1983 The American Lawyer. Chapter 19: “How Practice Leaders Add Value.” This chapter is an extensively re­ written version of two earlier articles: “The Power of
Practice Leadership,” published in the March 1993 issue of The American Law yer, and “The Management Strain,” published in T he Counselor, Vol. 22, No.2 (1986). Copyright 1993
David H. Maister. Chapter 20: “How to Create a Strategy.” First published in the April 1990 issue of The American Lawyer. Copyright 1990 David H. Maister. Chapter 23: “The Art of
Partner Compensation.” David H. Maister is a contribut­ ing author for The American Lawyer. This article is reprinted with permission from the November 1984 issue of The American
Lawyer. © 1994 The American Lawyer. Chapter 24: First published in the January/February 1993 issue of The American Lawyer. Copyright 1993 David H. Master Chapter 25:
“Pie-Splitting.” David H. Maister is a contributing author for The Amer­ ican Lawyer. This article is reprinted with permission from the March 1984 issue of The American Lawyer. ©
1984 The American Lawyer. Chapter 26: “Partnership Governance.” A portion of this chapter first appeared un­ der the title, “Partnership Politics,” in the October 1984 issue of The
American Lawyer. Chapter 27: Reprinted from “The One-Firm Firm,” by David H. Maister, Sloan M an­ agement Review (Fall 1985) by permission of publisher. Copyright 1985 by the Sloan
Management Review Association. All rights reserved. Chapter 29: “Making the Network Work.” First published in Eurobusiness, March 1989. Copyright 1989 Eurobusiness. Chapter 30:
“Creating the Collaborative Firm.” First published in the International Accounting Bulletin, April 1991. Copyright 1991 David H. Maister. Chapter 31: “Coordinating Industry
Specialty Groups.” First published as “Industry Specialization: Essential but Hard to Manage,” in the J ournal o f Management Con­ sulting, Vol. 2, N o.l (Winter 1984/1985),
pp.50-55. Copyright 1984 Journal o f Management Consulting. Chapter 32: “Asset Management.” First published under the title, “Managing Your Firm’s Balance Sheet” in Management
Consulting 90, Kennedy Publications. Copy­ right 1990 David H. Maister. CONTENTS Acknowledgments Introduction xiii xiv PART ONE: BASIC MATTERS 1. A Question of Balance 3 2. The
Professional Firm Life Cycle 21 3. Profitability: Health and Hygiene 31 4. Solving the Underdelegation Problem 41 PART TWO: CLIENT MATTERS 5. The Practice Development Package 53 6.
Listening to Clients 61 7. Quality Work Doesn’t Mean Quality Service 69 8. A Service Quality Program 79 9. Marketing to Existing Clients 97 10. How Clients Choose 111 ix x Contents
11. Attracting New Clients 121 12. Managing the Marketing Effort 133 PART THREE: PEOPLE MATTERS 13. How’s Your Asset? 143 14. How to Build Human Capital 155 15. The Motivation
Crisis 163 16. On the Importance of Scheduling 175 17. On the Meaning of Partnership 185 18. Surviving the People Crisis 189 PART FOUR: MANAGEMENT MATTERS 19. How Practice Leaders
Add Value 207 20. How to Create a Strategy 223 21. Fast-Track Strategy 237 PART FIVE: PARTNERSHIP MATTERS 22. Partner Performance Counseling 245 23. The Art of Partner Compensation
255 24. Patterns in Partner Compensation 269 25. Pie-Splitting 279 26. Partnership Governance 289 PART SIX: MULTISITE MATTERS 27. The One-Firm Firm 303 28. Hunters and Farmers 321
Contents xi 29. Making the Network Work 329 30. Creating the Collaborative Firm 337 31. Coordinating Industry Specialty Groups 345 PART SEVEN: FINAL THOUGHTS 32. Asset Management
References and Sources Index 367 359 365 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This book attempts to serve managers of professional service firms by presenting both new ways of looking at the various
issues faced by such firms and by offering practical advice for their resolution. The chapters of this book are, in the main, made up of articles published separately over the last
ten years. I owe a debt of gratitude to the many journals that provided an outlet for my work (see Credits at the front of the book.) However, special mention must be given to
Steve Brill and The American Law yer, where I am currently a contributing author. Not only did the magazine publish much of my early (and recent) work, but Steve has always acted
both as a source of encour­ agement to stick with the terrifying task of writing and as an archen­ emy of sloppy thinking. I am grateful to all at The American Lawyer for their
support. Two people have played an essential role not only in this work, but also in all of the research and consulting that led to it. They are Kathy Maister, my wife, and Julie
MacDonald O’Leary, my business man­ ager. To both, I offer my gratitude and unending loyalty. A wise phi­ losopher once said that “All theory is autobiography,” and many of my
views have been formed from my own experience in running a small professional enterprise. Kathy, apart from being an outstanding and supportive coach, has taught me much about
relationships and partnership. She has always been an invaluable sounding board. Julie is the consummate professional—talented, dedicated, flexible, and al­ ways eager to take on
more responsibility. I shudder to think about what I would have done without her. xiii xiv Acknowledgments In 1991-92 our team was enhanced by the addition of Cliff Farrah who
helped to make the rest of us more effective at what we do. We follow his career with interest and high expectations. Naturally, nothing in this book could have been developed
without the support of the many clients who gave me the opportunity to work with them in developing, implementing, and revising new approaches to professional firm management. I am
grateful to those of my clients who had the courage to seek out and experiment with disruptive, provocative, and challenging ideas. INTRODUCTION Two aspects of professional work
create the special management chal­ lenges of the professional service firm. First, professional services in­ volve a high degree of customization in their work. Professional firms
must manage customized activities where little, even management in­ formation, can be reliably made routine. Management principles and approaches from the industrial or
mass-consumer sectors, based as they are on the standardization, supervision, and marketing of repet­ itive tasks and products, are not only inapplicable in the professional sector
but may be dangerously wrong. Second, most professional services have a strong component of face-to-face interaction with the client. This implies that definitions of quality and
service take on special meanings and must be managed carefully, and that very special skills are required of top performers. Both of these characteristics (customization and client
contact) de­ mand that the firm attract (and retain) highly skilled individuals. Be­ cause of this, the professional service firm is the ultimate embodiment of that familiar phrase
“our assets are our people.” What a profes­ sional service firm sells to its clients is frequently less the services of the firm per se than the services of specific individuals
(or teams of indi­ viduals). A primary consequence of this is that the professional service firm must compete actively in two markets simultaneously: the “output” market for its
services, and the “input” market for its productive re­ sources, the professional work force. It is the need to balance the often xv xvi Introduction conflicting demands and
constraints imposed by these two markets that creates the special challenge of managing the professional service firm. This book has grown from my consulting experience in the past
ten years working with professional service firms, across a broad array of professions, in more than twenty countries. In particular, I have worked closely with accountants,
actuaries, architects, consultants, executive recruiters, lawyers, public relations counselors, advertising agencies, engineering firms, money managers, investment banks, real
estate firms, and others. Many professionals may be surprised to find themselves grouped with other professions with which they feel little identity. However, while it is clear
that the management problems of professional firms are sufficiently different from industrial or mass-consumer businesses to require their own ‘‘management theory”; it is also
clear that, in spite of many differences, businesses within the professional service sector face very similar issues, regardless of the specific profession they are in. When I
began my work, I treated these propositions as hypotheses. Ten years, many professions, and countless firms later, I take them as confirmed facts. Naturally, parts of this book
will apply more to some professions than to others. The discussion of partnership issues will be less rele­ vant to those firms structured as corporations. However, it should not
be completely irrelevant. I have encountered many legal partnerships run like corporations, and many corporations run on partnership principles. My hope is that the partnership
terminology will not prove to be a barrier for the reader, and that readers from all professions will find something here to stimulate their thinking. David H. Maister Maister
Associates, Inc. P.O. Box 946 Boston, MA 02117-0946 Tel: 617-262-5968 Fax: 617-262-7907 Website: http://www.davidmaister.com E-mail: David_Maister@msn.com July 1993 PART ONE BASIC
MATTERS CHAPTER 1 A QUESTION OF BALANCE One of the most interesting discoveries in my consulting work has been the fact that (apparently) every professional service firm in the
world has the same mission statement, regardless of the firm’s size, specific profession, or country of operation. With varying refinements of language, the mission of most
professional firms is: To deliver outstanding client service; to provide fulfilling careers and professional satisfaction for our people; and to achieve financial suc­ cess so that
we can reward ourselves and grow. The commonality of this mission does not detract from its value. Sim­ ply put, every professional firm must satisfy these three goals of “ser­
vice, satisfaction, and success” if it is to survive (see Figure 1-1). Management of a professional firm requires a delicate balancing act between the demands of the client
marketplace, the realities of the people marketplace (the market for staff), and the firm’s economic ambitions. Many factors play a role in bringing these goals into harmony, but
one has a preeminent position: the ratio of junior, middle-level, and senior staff in the firm’s organization, referred to here as the firm’s leverage. To see the importance of
this factor, we shall briefly exam­ ine, in turn, its relation to the three goals of the firm. 3 4 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm FIG U RE 1 -1 The Three Goals Client
Marketplace (Service) LEVERAGE AND THE CLIENT MARKETPLACE The required shape of the organization (the relative mix of juniors, managers, and seniors) is primarily determined by (or
rather, as we shall see, should be determined by) the skill requirements of its work: the mix of senior-level, middle-level, and junior-level tasks involved in the projects that
the firm undertakes. Consider three kinds of client work: Brains, Grey Hair, and Procedure projects. In the first type (Brains), the client’s problem is at the forefront of
professional or technical knowledge, or at least is of extreme com­ plexity. The key elements of this type of professional service are cre­ ativity, innovation, and the pioneering
of new approaches, concepts or techniques: in effect, new solutions to new problems. The firm that targets this market will be attempting to sell its services on the basis of the
high professional craft of its staff. In essence, their appeal to their market is, “Hire us because we’re smart.” Brains projects usually involve highly skilled and highly paid
pro­ fessionals. Few procedures are routinizable: Each project is “one-off.” Accordingly, the opportunities for leveraging the top professionals with juniors are relatively
limited. Even though such projects may involve significant data collection and analysis activities (normally performed by juniors), even these activities cannot be clearly
specified in advance and require the active involvement of at least middle-level (project management) professionals on a continuous basis. Conse­ quently, the ratio of junior time
to middle-level and senior time on Brains projects tends to be low. Grey Hair projects, while they may require a highly customized A Question of B a l a n c e 5 “output” in meeting
the clients’ needs, involve a lesser degree of in­ novation and creativity in the actual performance of the work than would a Brains project. The general nature of the problem to
be ad­ dressed is not unfamiliar, and the activities necessary to complete the project may be similar to those performed on other projects. Clients with Grey Hair problems seek out
firms with experience in their par­ ticular type of problem. In turn, the firm sells its knowledge, its expe­ rience, and its judgment. In effect, they are saying, “Hire us because
we have been through this before; we have practice at solving this type of problem.” Since for Grey Hair-type projects the problems to be addressed are somewhat more familiar, at
least some of the tasks to be performed (particularly the early ones) are known in advance and can be speci­ fied and delegated. The opportunity is thus provided to employ more
juniors to accomplish these tasks. The third type of project, the Procedure project, usually involves a well-recognized and familiar type of problem. While there is still a need to
customize to some degree, the steps necessary to accomplish this are somewhat programmatic. The client may have the ability and resources to perform the work itself, but turns to
the professional firm because the firm can perform the service more efficiently, because the firm is an outsider, or because the client’s own staff capabilities to perform the
activity are somewhat constrained and are better used elsewhere. In essence, the professional firm is selling its procedures, its efficiency, its availability: “Hire us because we
know how to do this and can deliver it effectively.” Procedure projects usually involve the highest proportion of junior time relative to senior time (and hence imply a different
organiza­ tional shape for firms that specialize in such projects). The problems to be addressed in such projects, and the steps necessary to complete the analysis, diagnosis, and
conclusions are usually so sufficiently well established that they can be easily delegated (under supervision) to junior staff. For Procedure projects the range of possible
outcomes for some steps may be so well known that the appropriate responses may be “programmed.” The three categories described here are, of course, only points along a spectrum of
project types. However, it is usually a simple task in any profession to identify types of problems that fit these categories. The choice that the firm makes in its mix of project
types is one of the most 6 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm important variables it has available to balance the firm. The choice of project types influences
significantly, as we shall see, the economic and organizational structures of the firm. Consider what will happen if a firm brings in a mix of client work such that its “proper”
staffing requirements would be for a slightly higher mix of juniors, and a lesser mix of seniors than it has (i.e., the work is slightly more procedural than the firm would
normally ex­ pect). What will happen? As Figure 1-2 suggests, the short-run consequence will be that higher priced people will end up performing lower-value tasks (prob­ ably at
lower fees), and there will be an underutilization of senior personnel. The firm will make less money than it should be making. The opposite problem is no less real. If a firm
brings in work that has skill requirements of a higher percentage of seniors and a lesser percentage of juniors (Figure 1-3), the consequences will be at least equally adverse: a
shortfall of qualified staff to perform the tasks, and a consequent quality risk. As these simple examples show, matching the skills required by the work to the skills available in
the firm (i.e., managing the leverage structure) is central to keeping the firm in balance. LEVERAGE AND THE PEOPLE MARKETPLACE The connection between a firm’s leverage structure
(its ratio of junior to senior professional staff) and the people marketplace can be cap­ tured in a single sentence: People do not join professional firms for jobs, but for
careers. They have strong expectations of progressing through the organization at some pace agreed to (explicitly or implic­ itly) in advance. FIG U RE 1 - 2 The Consequences of
Too Much Procedural Work FIGURE 1 - 3 The Consequences of Too Much Brains Work Staffing Required by Work Staffing We Have The professional service firm may be viewed as the modern
embod­ iment of the medieval craftsman’s shop, with its apprentices, journey­ men, and master craftsmen. The early years of an individual’s association with a professional service
firm are, indeed, usually viewed as an apprenticeship, and the relation between juniors and seniors the same: The senior craftsmen repay the hard work and assistance of the juniors
by teaching them their craft. The archetypal structure of the professional service firm is an or­ ganization containing three professional levels. In a consulting orga­ nization,
these levels might be labeled junior consultant, manager, and vice president. In a CPA firm they might be referred to as staff, manager, and partner. Law firms tend to have only
two levels, asso­ ciate and partner, although there is an increasing tendency in large law firms to recognize formally what has long been an informal dis­ tinction between junior
and senior partners. Responsibility for the organization’s three primary tasks is allo­ cated to these three levels of the organization: seniors (partners or vice presidents) are
responsible for marketing and client relations, manag­ ers for the day-to-day supervision and coordination of projects, and juniors for the many technical tasks necessary to
complete the study. The three levels are traditionally referred to as “the finders,” “the minders,” and “the grinders” of the business. The mix of each that the firm requires
(i.e., its ratio of senior to junior professionals) is primar­ ily determined by the mix of client work, and in turn crucially deter­ mines the career paths that the firm can
offer. While the pace of progress may not be a rigid one (“up or out in five years” ), both the individual and the organization usually share strong norms about what constitutes a
reasonable period of time for each 8 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm stage of the career path. Individuals who are not promoted within this period will seek greener
pastures elsewhere, either by their own choice or career ambitions, or at the strong suggestion of the firm. This promotion system serves an essential screening function for the
firm. Not all young professionals hired subsequently develop the managerial and client relations skills required at the higher levels. While good initial recruiting procedures may
serve to reduce the de­ gree of screening required through the promotion process, it can rarely eliminate the need for the promotion process to serve this important function. The
existence of a “risk of not making it” also serves the firm in that it constitutes a degree of pressure on junior personnel to work hard and succeed. The promotion incentive is
directly influenced by two key dimen­ sions: the normal amount of time spent at each level before being considered for promotion, and the “odds of making it” (the propor­ tion
promoted). These factors are clearly linked to a firm’s leverage structure (and its growth). For any given rate of growth, a highly leveraged firm (one with a high ratio of juniors
to seniors) will offer a lower probability of “making it” to the top, since there are many juniors seeking to rise and relatively few senior slots opening up. A less leveraged
firm, at the same rate of growth, will need to “bring along” a higher percentage of its juniors, thus providing a greater promotion incentive. LEVERAGE AND PROFITABILITY A
professional service firm’s leverage is also central to its economics. The “rewards of partnership” (the high levels of compensation at­ tained by senior partners) come only in
part from the high hourly (or daily) rates that the top professionals can charge for their own time. Profits also come, in large part, from the firm’s ability, through its project
team structure, to leverage the professional skills of the seniors with the efforts of juniors. The successful leveraging of top professionals is at the heart of the success of the
professional firm. As demonstrated below, a significant portion of partnership profits derives from the surplus generated from hiring staff at a given salary and billing them out
at multiples of that salary. By leveraging its high-cost seniors with low-cost juniors, the professional firm can lower its effective hourly rate and thus reduce its cost to
clients while simultaneously generating additional profit for the partners. A Question of Balance 9 FIGURE 1 - 4 Linking the Three Goals Client Marketplace (Service) t t Types of
Client Projects LEVERAGE STRUCTURE Cost & Fee Levels Profitability (Success) Career Opportunities Market for Staff (Satisfaction) The market for the firm’s services will determine
the fees it can command for a given project; its costs will be determined by the firm’s abilities to deliver the service with a cost-effective mix of junior, man­ ager, and senior
time. If the firm can find a way to deliver its services with a higher proportion of juniors to seniors, it will be able to achieve lower service delivery costs. The project team
structure of the firm is therefore an important component of firm profitability. The relationship between a firm’s leverage structure and its three goals is illustrated in Figure
1-4, which shows the principal forces tying these elements together. GURU ASSOCIATES: A NUMERICAL EXAMPLE To explore further how these items interrelate, let us consider a nu­
merical example (Table 1-1). Guru Associates, which engages in a variety of projects, nevertheless has a typical project which requires 50 percent of a senior’s time, 100 percent
of a middle-level person’s time, and the full-time efforts of three juniors. No one is expected to bill 100 percent of each’s available time. Nevertheless, if the firm is to meet
its economic goals, it will require that seniors and managers are engaged in billable work for 75 percent of their time, and juniors 90 percent. Guru Associates currently has four
seniors. If it is to meet its target of 75 percent billed senior time, its available senior time will be four times 75 percent, or the equivalent of three seniors working
full-time. This implies six projects, if the typical project requires 50 percent of a senior’s time. 10 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm TABLE 1 -1 Level Requirements fo r
Average Project Target Utiliza­ tion Required Staffing fo r 6 Projects @ Target Utilization Required Staffing fo r 12 Projects @ Target Utilization Senior 50% of 1 person 75% 4 8
Middle 1 person 75% 8 16 Junior 3 people 90% 20 40 With six projects, the firm needs the equivalent of six full-time middle-level staff, according to the project team structure.
(Each project requires 100 percent of a middle-level person). At 75 percent target utilization (billed hours divided by available hours), this means that the firm must have eight
middle-level staff. Similarly, at three juniors per project, the firm needs eighteen full-time juniors, or at 90 percent billability, twenty juniors. Simple calculations such as
these show that, with eight seniors, the firm would need sixteen managers and forty juniors. The proportions remain constant: one senior to every two managers, to every five jun­
iors. Unless there is a change in either the project team structure (i.e., the types of projects the firm undertakes), or the target utilization (matters which will be discussed
below), the firm must keep these ratios constant as it grows. This seemingly simpleminded calculation, relating the staffing mix requirements of the work to the staffing levels
existing in the firm, is in fact of extreme importance. If we know the salaries of the staff members and their billing rates, we can construct the pro forma income statement of
this firm at full utilization. The role of leverage is amply illustrated by Guru Associ­ ates (Table 1-2). The four seniors (partners) personally bill a total of $1.2 million, or
$300,000 apiece. At per-professional overhead costs of $40,000 (including the costs of all secretaries, administrative staff, TABLE 1 -2 The Economics of Guru Associates Target
Billable Hours @ 2,000 Hours per Person per Year Billing Rate Fees Salary per Individual Total Salaries Level No. Target Utilization Senior 4 75% 6,000 $200 $1,200,000 Middle 8 75%
12,000 $100 $1,200,000 $75,000 $600,000 Junior 20 90% 36,000 $50 $1,800,000 $32,000 $640,000 $4,200,000 TOTALS Fees $4,200,000 Salaries (1,240,000) Contributions $2,960,000
Overhead* $1,280,000 Partner Profits $1,680,000 Per Partner $ 420,000 Assume overhead costs of $ 4 0 ,0 0 0 per professional $1,240,000 12 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm
space, supplies, etc.), this would result in a per-partner profit of $260,000 if these seniors were totally unleveraged. With a healthy seven staff members per senior, partner
profits now total $420,000 apiece. About 60 percent of each partner’s profit comes not from what he or she bills, but from the profit generated by the nonpartner group. Thus the
benefits of leverage! (It should be immediately stressed that high leverage is not always good. As we have already observed, having high leverage is completely inappropriate if the
firm has a high level of Brains work. What we can say is that leverage should be as high as the requirements of the work allow). We now turn to Guru Associates’ position in the
market for staff. Guru Associates has the following promotion policies. It considers that it requires four years for a junior to acquire the expertise and experience to perform the
middle-level function, and it expects to pro­ mote 80 percent of its candidates to this position. A lower percentage would be insufficient to attract new juniors, and a higher
percentage would imply that insufficient “screening” was taking place (i.e., that there was no room for “hiring mistakes” ). From middle-level to se­ nior is also expected to take
four years; but because fewer candidates develop the critical client relations skills that Guru Associates re­ quires, on average only 50 percent of candidates make it. We shall
now trace the evolution of Guru Associates over time. Among the eight middle-level staff, we may assume that, since it takes four years to make senior, one quarter of them (i.e.,
two) are in their final year as middle-level staff. If Guru Associates is to abide by its promotion policies, then it can expect to promote 50 percent, (i.e., one candidate).
Whether by firm policy or by the personal de­ cision of the individual, the nonpromoted candidate will leave the firm. (Note that this result tends to happen in most professional
ser­ vice firms regardless of whether the firm has an up-or-out policy. Middle-level staff may, if allowed, hang on for another year or two, but most eventually leave if not
promoted. As we shall see, there is a strong incentive for the firm to encourage them to leave, since they are occupying slots eagerly sought by the juniors coming up behind them.)
Counting both those promoted and those leaving we have reduced the number of middle-level staff by two; and increased the number of A Question of Balance 13 seniors by one. Since
we now have five seniors, we require ten middlelevel staff (unless the mix of project types changes) and have six re­ maining. We must seek out four new middle-level staff from
among our juniors. Of the twenty in the firm, we assume one quarter (five) will be in their final year as juniors. Since our expectation (or policy) is to promote 80 percent at
this level, we will, indeed, promote four out of the five to fill our four available slots. (The fact that these figures match is not, of course, fortuitous. The percentage that
can be promoted at a lower level is determined by the shape of the profes­ sional pyramid.) Like the “passed over” middle-level staff person, the fifth junior may reasonably be
