manner. A similar process solution to the problem of participation is the habit of effective managing partners of holding regular partnership meetings at which the managing partner
can report latest develop­ ments, let partners know what topics are to be addressed at forthcom­ ing board meetings, and answer questions. This approach, done well, allows those
outside the official power structure to participate. Of course, done poorly, this process can become a meaningless pro forma exercise at which nothing is accomplished. However,
this only serves to illustrate the point that simple structural solutions (“mandatory partner meetings” or “circulation of board minutes” ) rarely solve gov­ ernance issues by
themselves. It is the style with which they are im­ plemented that determines their success. THE MANAGEMENT TEAM More important than any executive committee is the group of indi­
viduals who are charged with running the practice day-to-day. Prac­ tice unit heads, together with the managing partner, form the management team, a distinct entity from the
executive committee, but one which must truly function as a team in the running of the firm. The managing partner should use the management team as a sounding board for ideas and
as his or her “eyes and ears” on issues that should be addressed. Partnership Governance 297 In most firms, the designated heads of offices and practice areas are chosen by the
managing partner (often subject to the approval of the board). They should be chosen less for their prominence, technical ability, or business-getting talents than for their
managerial skill in running a practice unit. (Since this skill is relatively scarce, and the duties often onerous, direct election by practice unit members is fast fading as a
means of identifying these individuals.) In many firms, the role of practice head (responsible for an office or discipline) is a significant role in making things happen and
affecting the future of the firm. As the creation of the board of partners, the management team is directly accountable to the board, and, through them, to the partners. THE
BUSINESS MANAGER In most professional firms today, a high-powered chief financial of­ ficer supports the managing partner and serves as his or her right hand. Such a person should
(and, in well-run firms, does) shoulder the burden of numerous activities that often consume the time of the chairman of the executive committee, including: • Reviewing financials,
operating statistics • Supervising the preparation of budgets • Dealing with leases, contracts, computers, etc. • Analysis of new strategic initiatives This frees up the managing
partner for more high-value activities such as: • Conducting formal and informal performance reviews • Having informal (unscheduled) interactions with other partners • Assisting
partners on client matters • Assisting partners on their personal professional matters • Visiting client’s firm or office and other client relations activities It is the norm today
that administrative matters and the analysis of major business issues are delegated to a business professional. Such a person does not make decisions, nor (far less) deal with
partner issues. However, this person does free up the managing partner to make these decisions and deal with partners by serving as a high-powered re­ source to the managing
partner. Experience has shown that as much 298 M anaging the P rofessional Service Firm as 25 percent of the managing partner’s time (i.e., something on the order of five hundred
hours) can be freed up with the support of a sufficiently skilled business officer. If these five hundred hours were to be applied to the higher value tasks on the list above the
value created would be sufficient to justify a significant investment in the business manager position. THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE In most well-run firms, the compensation
committee is made up of two parts: all or part of the executive committee, supplemented by other members separately chosen. Three equally appropriate ap­ proaches appear to be
equally common in selecting these supplemen­ tary members: a. The non-executive members of the board play this role b. Supplementary members are appointed by the board c.
Supplementary members are chosen by direct election The presence of the executive committee (or at the very least its man­ aging partner) on the compensation body is essential to
ensure that consistency is established between the “signals” issued by the execu­ tive in the day-to-day running of the firm and the annual performance review conducted by the
compensation committee. However, the prin­ ciple of separation of powers leads many firms to conclude (correctly in my judgment) that the executive function should not be
completely coincident with the (judicial) compensation function. It is rare that any special compensation arrangement is made for board members, other than reducing their targeted
workload by the number of hours consumed by their board responsibilities. (If board activities take 10 percent of their time, for example, then their other performance indicators
such as personal billings, etc., would be ad­ justed pro rata.) The managing partner cannot be assessed in this way. As already noted, the task of the managing partner is to help
make the firm suc­ cessful, and he or she should be assessed on results in this area. (Not, it should be stressed, on the hours he or she puts into the job, or on personal practice
results. The former rewards “make-work” and the latter ignores any contribution or weakness in performing the mana­ gerial function). Partnership Governance 299 It is most
functional if the managing partner’s reward is closely tied to aggregate firm results. If the firm does well, the managing partner has the most to gain; if it does not, it is the
managing partner whose reward is most affected. In a good year, the managing partner should receive the highest compensation in the practice. In a bad year, it will be the first to
be cut. EVALUATING A GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The governance structure described here is not perfect, and effective variations do exist. However, this structure does pass some
important tests that any governance structure must meet. By having an elected board appoint, or at least nominate, the ex­ ecutive (managing partner and office heads), it maximizes
the chances that people with the right skills are placed in positions o f authority, and that they w ork together as a team . The Board, as the highest-level committee, provides a
place for "heavy hitting” partners w ho may not be g o o d managers to nev­ ertheless hold important positions of influence. Policy functions are effectively separated from
executive functions, and a place is provided for people of different skills to make their respective contributions. There should be a clear, shared sense o f w ho is responsible
for w hat, thereby eliminating the chances of gridlock. The structure allows, even if it does not ensure, speedy decision m aking. There is a clear procedure to rem ove those no
longer effective. The structure makes it possible to set clear goals, and hold people accountable for them. The people charged with executive functions should, within this system,
have the time to carry them out. There is a vehicle, or forum for dissatisfaction to be expressed, and those outside the official channels can participate. Governors have the
consent o f the governed. Perhaps most important, committee-itis in decision making is avoided. This list represents a not inconsiderable group of virtues: a list that many
alternate governance structures would be hard pressed to meet. PART SIX MULTISITE MATTERS CHAPTER 27 THE ONE-FIRM FIRM What do investment bankers Goldman Sachs, management consult­
ants McKinsey, accountants Arthur Andersen, compensation and benefits consultants Hewitt Associates, and lawyers Latham & Wat­ kins have in common? Besides being among the most
profitable firms (if not the most profitable) in their respective professions? Besides being considered by their peers to be among the best managed firms in their respective
professions? The answer? They all share, to a greater or lesser extent, a common approach to management that I term the “one-firm” system. In contrast to many of their competitors,
one-firm firms have a remarkable degree of institutional loyalty and group effort that is clearly a critical ingredient in their success. The commonality of this organizational
orientation and management approach among each of these firms suggests that there is indeed a “model” whose basic ele­ ments are transferable to other professions. The purpose of
this article Note to the reader: This chapter was written as an article in 1985. The information on specific firms contained in this article was gleaned from a variety of “ public
domain” sources, as well as selected interviews (on and off the record) at a number of professional service firms, including but not restricted to those named herein. However, none
of the information presented here represents “ official” statements by the firms involved. In the years since this piece was written a number of changes have taken place in some of
these firms. I have chosen not to update my “ reporting” since my primary purpose was (and is) to describe an effective management model, and not to make comments about specific
firms. 303 304 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm is to identify the elements of this model of professional firm success, and to explore how these elements interact to form
a successful man­ agement system. WHAT IS MEANT BY “WELL MANAGED”? The firms chosen for discussion were identified in the following way. In the course of my research and consulting
work, I have made it my practice to ask repeatedly the question, “Which do you consider the best managed firm in your profession?” The question is, of course, ambiguous. In any
business context, “well-managed” can be taken to refer, alternatively, to profitability, member satisfaction, size, growth, innovativeness, quality of products or services, or any
of a number of other criteria. The difficulty in identifying “successful” firms is par­ ticularly acute in the professions because many of the conventional indicators of business
success do not necessarily apply. For example, since there are few economies of scale in the professions, neither size nor rate of growth can be taken as unequivocal measures of
success: Many firms have chosen to limit both. Even if “per-partner” profit figures were available (which they are not), they would also be unre­ liable measures, since many
professional firms are prepared to sacri­ fice a degree of profit maximization in the name of other goals such as professional satisfaction and/or quality of worklife. Finally,
since “quality” of either service or work product is notoriously difficult to assess in professional work, few reliable indicators of this aspect of success are obtainable. In
spite of these difficulties, it has been remarkable how frequently the same names appear on the list of “well-managed” firms in the professions, as judged by their peers and
competitors. The firms dis­ cussed here were on virtually everyone’s list of admired firms, often together with the comment, “I wish we could do what they do.” It should be noted
that other firms, not discussed here, were also men­ tioned frequently. However, as expressed earlier, what makes Arthur Andersen, Goldman Sachs, Hewitt Associates, and Latham &
Wat­ kins worthy of some special attention is not only that they are suc­ cessful and well respected, but that, in spite of being in different professions, they appear to share a
common approach to management (the one-firm firm system) that is readily distinguishable from many of their competitors. This approach is clearly not the only way to run a
professional service firm, but it is certainly a way that is worthy of special study. THE “ONE-FIRM” SYSTEM LO Y A LT Y The characteristics of the one-firm firm system are
institutional loy­ alty and group effort. In contrast to many of their (often successful) competitors who emphasize individual entrepreneuralism, autono­ mous profit centers,
internal competition, and/or highly decentral­ ized, independent activities, one-firm firms place great emphasis on firmwide coordination of decision making, group identity,
coopera­ tive teamwork, and institutional commitment. Hewitt Associates (described along with Goldman Sachs in a recent popular book as one of “The 100 Best Companies in America to
Work For” )1 says that, in its recruiting, it looks for “SWANs”: people who are Smart, Work hard, are Ambitious, and Nice. While emphasis on the first three attributes is common in
all professional service firms, it is the emphasis on the last one that differentiates the one-firm firm from all the others. “If an individual has ego needs that are too high,”
notes Pe­ ter Friedes, Hewitt’s managing partner, “they can be a very disruptive influence. Our work depends on internal cooperation and teamwork.” The same theme is sounded by
Geoffrey Boisi, the partner in charge of mergers and acquisitions at Goldman Sachs: “You learn from day one around here that we gang-tackle problems. If your ego won’t permit that,
you won’t be effective here.”2 By general repute, Gold­ man has achieved its eminence with a minimum of the infighting that afflicts most Wall Street firms. In contrast to many (if
not most) of its competitors on the Street, Goldman frowns upon anything resem­ bling a star system. D OW NPLAYIN G STA R D O M The same studied avoidance of the star mentality is
evidenced at Latham & Watkins. As Clinton Stevenson, the firm’s managing part­ ner, points out: “ We want to encourage clients to retain the firm of Latham and Watkins, not Clint
Stevenson.”3 Partner Jack Walker reinforces this point: “I don’t mean to sound sentimental, but there’s a bonding here. People care about the work of the firm.”4 The team
philosophy at McKinsey, one senior partner explained to me, is illus­ trated by its approach to project work: “As a young individual con­ sultant, you learn that your job is to
hold your own: You can rest assured that the team will win. All you’ve got to do is do your part.” 306 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm Above all else, the leaders and,
more important, all the other mem­ bers of these firms view themselves as belonging to an institution that has an identity and existence of its own, above and beyond the indi­
viduals who happen currently to belong to it. The one-firm firm, rel­ ative to its competitors, places great emphasis on its institutional history, broadly held values, and a
reputation that all actively work to preserve. Loyalty to, and pride in, the firm and its accomplishments approaches religious fervor at such firms. T EA M W O R K AND C O N FO R M
ITY The emphasis on teamwork and “fitting in” creates an identity not only for the firm but also for the individual members of the firm. This identity, for better or for worse, is
readily identifiable to the outside world. References by others in the profession to members of one-firm firms are not always flattering. Members of other large accounting firms,
particularly those where individualism and individual contri­ butions are highly valued, often make reference to “Arthur An­ droids.” The term “A McKinsey-type” has substantive
meaning in the consulting profession— sometimes even down to the style of dress. In the 1950s, I am told by a McKinsey-ite, a set of hats in the closet of a corporation’s reception
room was an unmistakable sign that the McKinsey consultants were in. The hats have disappeared, but the men­ tality has not. Goldman Sachs professionals are referred to by other
investment bankers as the “IBM clones of Wall Street.” LONG H O U RS AND HARD W O RK For all the emphasis on teamwork and interpersonal skills, one-firm firm members are no
slouches. All of the firms discussed here have reputations for long hours and hard work, even above the norms for the all-absorbing professions in which they compete. Indeed, the
way an individual illustrates his or her high involvement and commitment to the firm is through hard work and long hours. Latham & Watkins lawyers are reputed to bill an average of
2,200 hours apiece, with some heroic performers reaching the heights of 2,700 hours in some years. This contrasts with a profession-wide average of approximately 1,750. At Goldman
Sachs, sixteen-hour days are common. It has been said: “If you like the money game, here’s [Goldman’s] a good team to play on. If you like other games, you may not have time for
them.”5 James Scott, a Columbia Business School professor, has commented: The One-Firm Firm 307 “At Goldman, the spirit is pervasive. They all work hard, have the same willingness
to work all night to get the job done well, and yet remain in pretty good humor about it.”6 Similarly, McKinsey, Hewitt, and Arthur Andersen are all hard-working environments,
above the norms for their respective professions. SEN SE O F M ISSIO N In large part, the institutional commitment at one-firm firms is gener­ ated not only through a loyalty to
the firm but also by the develop­ ment of a sense of “mission,” which is most frequently seen as client service. All professional service firms list in their mission statement what
I call the “3 Ss”: the goals of (client) service, (financial) success, and (professional) satisfaction. What is recognizable about one-firm firms is that, in their internal
communications, there is a clear priority among these. Within McKinsey, a new consultant learns within a very short pe­ riod of time that the firm believes that the client com es
first, the firm second, and the individual last. Goldman Sachs has a reputation for being “ready to sacrifice anything—including its relations with other Wall Street firms—to
further the client’s interests.”7 At Hewitt Asso­ ciates, firm ideology is that the 3 Ss must be carefully kept in balance at all times; however, client service is clearly number
one. None of this is meant to suggest that one-firm firms necessarily render superior service to their clients compared with their competitors; nor that they always resolve
inevitable day-to-day conflicts among the 3 Ss in the same way. The point is that there is a firm ideology which everyone understands and which no one is allowed to take lightly.
CLIENT SERVICE The emphasis at one-firm firms is clearly one of significant attention to managing client relations. In these firms, client service is defined more broadly than
technical excellence: It is taken to mean a more farranging attentiveness to client needs and the quality of interaction be­ tween the firm and its clients. Goldman Sachs pioneered
the concept on Wall Street of forming a marketing and new business development group whose primary responsibility is to manage the interface between the client and the various
other parts of the firm that provide the tech­ nical and professional services. In most other Wall Street firms, client relations are the responsibility of the individual
professionals who do 308 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm the work, resulting in numerous (and potentially conflicting) contacts between a single client and the various
other parts of the firm. Hewitt Associates, alone in its profession, has also pioneered such an “account management” group. At McKinsey, in the words of one partner, “Ev­ eryone
realizes that the (client) relationship is paramount, not the spe­ cific project we happen to be working on at the moment.” The high-commitment, hard-working, mission-oriented,
team­ intensive characteristics of one-firm firms are reminiscent of another type of organization: the Marine Corps. Indeed, one-firm firms have an elite Marine Corps attitude
about themselves. An atmosphere of a special, private club prevails, where members feel that “we do things differently around here, and most of us couldn’t consider working
anywhere else.” While all professional firms will assert that they have the best professionals in town, one-firm firms claim they have the best firm in town, a subtle but important
difference. SUSTAINING THE ONE-FIRM CULTURE Up to this point, we have been talking about a type of firm culture, a topic much discussed in recent management literature.8 Our task
now is to try to identify the management practices that have created and sustained this culture. Not surprisingly, since human assets constitute the vast majority of the productive
resources of the professional ser­ vice firm, most of these management practices involve human resource management. A good overview of the mechanisms by which an “elite group”
culture, with emphasis on the group, can be created is provided by Dr. Chip Bell,9 a training consultant, who suggests that the elements of any high performance unit include the
following: • Entrance requirements into the group are extremely difficult. • Acceptance into the group is followed by intensive job-related training, followed by team training. •
Challenging and high-risk team assignments are given early in the individual’s career. • Individuals are constantly tested to ensure that they measure up to the elite standards of
the unit. • Individuals and groups are given the autonomy to take risks nor­ mally not permissible at other firms. • Training is viewed as continuous and related to assignments. •
Individual rewards are tied directly to collective results. The O n e -F i r m Firm 309 • Managers are seen as experts, pacesetters, and mentors (rather than as administrators). As
we shall see, all of these practices can be seen at work in the onefirm firms. RECRUITING In contrast to many competing firms, one-firm firms invest a signifi­ cant amount of
senior professional time in their recruitment process, and they tend to be much more selective than their competition. At one-firm firms, recruiting is either heavily centralized
or well coordi­ nated centrally. At Hewitt Associates, over 1,000 students at sixtyfive schools were interviewed in 1980. Of the seventy-two offers that were made, fifty accepted.
Each of the 198 invited to the firm’s offices spent a half-day with a psychologist (at a cost to the firm of $600 per person) for career counseling to find out if the person was
suited for Hewitt’s work and would fit within the firm’s culture. At Goldman Sachs, 1,000 MBAs are interviewed each year; approximately thirty are chosen. Interviewing likely
candidates is a major responsibility of the firm’s seventy-three partners (the firm has over 1,600 profession­ als). Goldman partner James Gorter notes, “Recruiting responsibili­
ties almost come before your business responsibilities.” 10 At Latham & Watkins, all candidates get twenty-five to thirty interviews, com­ pared to a norm in the legal profession
of approximately five to ten interviews. As a McKinsey partner noted: In our business, the game is won or lost at the recruiting stage: We take it very seriously. And it’s not a
quantity game, it’s a quality game. You’ve got to find the best people you can, and the trick is to under­ stand what b e s t means. It’s not just brains, not just presentability:
You have to try and detect the potentially fully developed professional in the person, and not just look at what they are n o w . Some firms hire in a superficial way, relying on
the up-or-out system to screen out the losers. We do have an up-or-out system, but we don’t use it as a substitute for good recruiting practices. To us, the costs of
recruiting-mistake turn­ over are too high, in dollars, in morale, and in client service, to ignore. TRAINING One-firm firms are notable for their investment in firmwide training,
which serves both as a way to add to the substantive skills of juniors 310 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm and as an important group socialization function. The best
examples of this practice are Arthur Andersen and McKinsey. The former is renowned among accounting students for its training center in St. Charles, Illinois (a fully equipped
college campus that the firm ac­ quired and converted to its own uses), to which young professionals are sent from around the world. In the words of one Andersen part­ ner: ‘T o
this day, I have useful friendships, forged at St. Charles with people across the firm in different offices and disciplines. If I need to get something done outside my own
expertise, I have people I can call on who will do me a favor, even if it comes out of their hide. They know I’ll return it.” Similarly, McKinsey’s two-week training program for
new profes­ sionals is renowned among business school students. The program is run by one or more of the firm’s senior professionals, who spend a significant amount of time
inculcating the firm’s values by telling Mar­ vin Bower stories— Bower, who ran the firm for many years, is largely credited with making McKinsey what it is today. The training
pro­ gram is not always held in the United States but rotates among the countries where McKinsey has offices. This not only reinforces the one-firm image (as opposed to a
headquarters with branch offices), but also has a dramatic effect on the young professionals’ view of the firm. As one of my ex-students told me: “Being sent to Europe for a
two-week training program during your first few months with the firm impresses the hell out of you. It makes you think: ‘This is a class outfit.’ It also both frightens you and
gives you confidence. You say, ‘Boy they must think I’m good if they’re prepared to spend all this money on me.’ But then you worry about whether you can live up to it: it’s very
motivating.” All young professionals are given a copy of Marvin Bower’s history of the firm, Perspectives on McKinsey, which unlike many professional firm histories, is as full of
philosophy and advice as it is dry on historical facts. “ GROWING THEIR OWN” PROFESSIONALS Unlike many of their competitors, all of the one-firm firms tend to “grow their own”
professionals, rather than to make significant use of lateral hiring of senior professionals. In other words, in the acquisi­ tion of human capital, they tend to “make” rather than
“buy.” This is not to say that no lateral hires are made— just that they are done infrequently and with extreme caution. “I had to meet with the asso­ The O n e -F i r m Firm 311
ciates (i.e., not only the partners) before the firm [Latham & Watkins] took me on,” Carla Hills, former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, recalls. “Lateral entry is a
big trauma for this place. But that’s how it should be.” AVOIDING MERGERS A related practice of one-firm firms is the deliberate avoidance of growth by merger. Arthur Andersen,
unlike most of the large account­ ing firms, did not join in the merger and acquisition boom of the 1950s and early 1960s, in an attempt to become part of a nationwide account­ ing
profession network. Instead, it grew its own regional (and inter­ national) offices. Similarly, the decade-long merger mania in investment banking has left Goldman Sachs, which
opted out of this trend, as one of the few independent partnerships on the street. In con­ trast to many other consulting firms, McKinsey’s overseas offices were all launched on a
grow-your-own basis, initially staffed with U.S. per­ sonnel, rather than on an acquisition basis. With one recent exception, all of Latham & Watkins’s branch offices were all
grown internally. It is clear that this avoidance of growth through laterals or mergers plays a critical role in both creating and preserving the sense of insti­ tutional identity,
which is the cornerstone of the one-firm system. CONTROLLED GROWTH As a high proportion of the professional staff shares an extensive, com­ mon work history with the one-firm firm,
group loyalty is easier to fos­ ter. Of course, this staffing strategy has implications for the rate of growth pursued by the one-firm firm. At such firms (in contrast to many
competitors), high growth is not a declared goal. Rather, such firms aim for controlled growth. The approach is one of, “We’ll grow as fast as we can train our people.” As Ron
Daniel of McKinsey phrases it: “We neither shun growth nor idolize it. We view it as a by-product of achieving our other goals.” All of the one-firm firms assert that the major
constraint on their growth is not client demand, but the supply of qualified people they can find and train to their way of practicing. SELECTIVE BUSINESS PURSUITS Related to this
issue is the fact that one-firm firms tend to be more selective than their competitors in the type of business they pursue. It 312 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm has
been reported that an essential element of the Goldman culture is its calculated choosiness about the clients it takes on. The firm has let it be known, both internally and
externally, that it “adheres to certain standards— and that it won’t compromise them for the sake of a quick buck.” 12 At McKinsey, the firm’s long-standing strategy is that it
will only work for “the top guy” (i.e., the chief executive officer) and, as illustrated internally with countless Marvin Bower stories, will only do those projects where the
potential value delivered is demonstrably far in excess of the firm’s charges. Junior staff at McKinsey quickly hear stories of projects the firm has turned down because the
partner did not believe the firm could add sufficient value to cover its fees. Similarly, while Andersen has been an aggressive marketer (a prop­ erty common to all the one-firm
firms), Andersen appears to have taken a more studied, less “opportunistic” approach to business de­ velopment than have its competitors. Consequently, one-firm firms tend to have
a less varied practicemix and a more homogeneous client base than do their more explicitly individualistic competitors. Unlike, say, Booz, Allen, McKinsey’s practice is relatively
focused on three main areas: organization work, strategy consulting, and operation studies. In the late 1970s (the hey­ day of “strategy boutiques” ), many outsiders commented on
the firm’s reluctance to chase after fast-growing new specialties.13 But McKinsey, like all of the other one-firm firms, enters new areas “big, or not at all.” Andersen’s strategy
in its consulting work (the fastest growing area for all the large accounting firms) has been more clearly focused on computer-based systems design and installation than has the
variegated practices of most of its competitors. Goldman has been notably selective in which segments of the investment market it has entered, and has become a dominant player in
virtually every sector it has entered. OUTPLACEMENT One of the fortunate consequences of the controlled growth strategy at one-firm firms and the avoidance of laterals and mergers
is that these firms, in contrast to many competitors, rarely lose valued people to competitors. At each of the firms named above, I have heard the claim that, “Many of our people
have been approached by competi­ tors offering more money to help them launch or bolster a part of the practice. But our people prefer to stay.” On Wall Street, raiding of The One
- Firm Firm 313 competing firms’ top professionals has reached epidemic proportions; yet, this does not include Goldman Sachs. It is said that one of the rarest beasts on Wall
Street is an ex-Goldman professional: Very few leave the firm. Turnover at one-firm firms is clearly more carefully managed than it is among competitors. Those one-firm firms that
do enforce an upor-out system (McKinsey and Andersen) work actively to place their alumni in good positions preferably with favored clients. McKinsey’s regular alumni reunions, a
vivid demonstration of its success in breed­ ing loyalty to the firm, are held two or three times a year. In part, due to the caring approach taken to junior staff, one-firm firms
are able to achieve a very profitable high-leverage strategy (i.e., high ratio of jun­ ior to senior staff) without excessive pressures for growth to provide promotion
opportunities. COMPENSATION Internal management procedures at one-firm firms constantly re­ inforce the team concept. Most important, compensation systems (particularly for
partners) are designed to encourage intra-firm coop­ eration. Whereas many other firms make heavy use of departmental or local-office profitability in setting compensation (i.e.,
take a measurement-oriented, profit-center approach), one-firm firms tend to set compensation (both for partners and juniors) through a judg­ mental process, assessing total
contribution to the firm. Unique among the large accounting firms Andersen has a single worldwide partner­ ship cost-sharing pool (as opposed to separate country profit centers):
Individual partners share in the joint economics of the whole firm, not just their country (or local office). “The virtue of the ‘one-pool’ sys­ tem, as opposed to heavy
profit-centering, is that a superior individual in an otherwise poor-profit office can be rewarded appropriately,” one Andersen partner pointed out. “Similarly, a weaker individual
in a successful office does not get a windfall gain. Further, if you tie individual partner compensation too tightly to departmental or office profitability, it’s hard to take into
account the particular circum­ stances of that office. A guy that shows medium profitability in a tough market probably deserves more than one with higher profit­ ability in an
easy market where we already have a high market share.” Hewitt Associates sets its partner compensation levels only after all partners have been invited to comment on the
contributions (qualita­ 314 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm tive and quantitative) made by other partners on “their” projects and other firmwide affairs. Vigorous efforts
are made to assess contribu­ tions to the firm that do not show up in the measurable factors. Peter Friedes notes: We think that having no profit centers is a great advantage to
us. Other organizations don’t realize how much time they waste fighting over allocations of overhead, transfer charges, and other mechanisms caused by a profit-center mentality.
Whenever there are profit centers, coop­ eration between groups suffers badly. Of course, we pay a price for not having them: specific accountability is hard to pin down. We often
don’t know precisely whose time we are writing off, or who precisely brought in that new account. But at least we don’t fight over it: we get on with our work. Our people know
that, over time, good performance will be recognized and rewarded. Goldman Sachs also runs a judgment-based (rather than measurement-based) compensation system, including “a
month-long evaluation process in which performance is reviewed not only by a person’s superiors but by other partners as well, and finally by the management committee. During that
review, ‘how well you do when other parts of the firm ask for your help on some project’ plays a big part.” 14 At Latham & Watkins, “ 15 percent of the firm’s income is set aside
as a separate fund from which the executive committee, at its sole discretion, awards partners additional compensation based on their general contribution to the firm in terms of
such factors as client relations, hours billed, and even the business office’s ‘scoring’ of how promptly the partner has logged his or her own time, sent out and collected bills,
and otherwise helped the place run well.” 15 INVESTMENTS IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT In most professional service firms, particularly in those with a heavy emphasis on short-term
results or year-by-year performance evalua­ tion, any activity that takes an individual away from direct revenueproducing work is considered a detour off the professional success
track within the firm and is therefore avoided. This is not the case with one-firm firms. As the one-firm culture is based on a “team-player” judgmentsystem approach to evaluations
and compensation (at both the part­ ner and junior level), it is relatively easier (although it is never easy) The O n e -F i r m Firm 315 for one-firm firms to get their best
professionals to engage in nonbill­ able, staff-like activities such as research and development (R&D), market research, and other investments in the firm’s future. For ex­ ample,
McKinsey is noted in the consulting profession for its inter­ nally funded R&D projects, of which the most famous example is the work that resulted in the best seller, In Search o
f Excellence. This book, however, was only one of a large number of staff projects con­ tinually under way in the firm. An ex-student of mine noted that “at McKinsey to be selected
to do something for the firm is an honor: It’s a quick way to get famous in the firm if you succeed. And of course, you’re expected to succeed. Firm projects are treated as
seriously as client work, and your performance is closely examined. However, my friends at other firms tell me that firm projects are a high-risk thing to do: They worry about
whether their low chargeable hours will be held against them later on.” Andersen likewise invests heavily in firmwide activities. For in­ stance, it conducts extensive cross-office
and cross-functional indus­ try programs, which attempt to coordinate all of the firm’s activities with respect to specific industries. In fact, it is rumored, although no one has
the statistics, that Andersen invests a higher proportion of its gross revenues in firmwide investment activities than does any other firm. Goldman’s commitment to investing in its
own future is illustrated by the firm’s policy of forcing partners to keep their capital in the firm rather than to take extraordinarily high incomes. Hewitt’s commit­ ment to R&D
is built into its organizational structure. Rather than scatter its professional experts throughout its multiple office system (staffed predominantly with accounting managers), it
chose to con­ centrate its professional groups in three locations in order to promote the rapid cross-fertilization of professional ideas. Significant invest­ ments of professional
time are made in nonbillable research work under the guidance of professional group managers who establish budgets for such work in negotiation with the managing partner.
COMMUNICATION Communication at a one-firm firm is remarkably open and is clearly used as a bonding technique to hold the firm together. All the firms described above make heavy use
of memorandums to keep everyone informed of what is happening in other parts of the firm, above and 316 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm beyond the token efforts
frequently made at other firms. Frequent firmwide meetings are held, with an emphasis on cross-boundary (i.e., interoffice and interdepartmental) gatherings. Such meetings are val­
ued (and clearly designed) as much as for the social interaction as for whatever the agenda happens to be: People go to the meetings. (At numerous other firms I have observed,
meetings are seen as distrac­ tions from the firm’s, or the individual’s, business, and people bow out whenever they can.) At most one-firm firms, open communication extends to
financial matters as well. At Hewitt, they believe that “anyone has a right to know anything about the firm except the personal affairs of another individual.” At an annual meeting
with all junior personnel (including secretaries and other support staff), the managing partner discloses the firm’s economic results and answers any and all questions from the
audience. At Latham & Watkins, junior associates are significantly involved in all major firm committees, including recruiting, choosing new partners, awarding associate bonuses,
and so on. All significant matters about the firm are well known to the associates. ABSENCE OF STATUS SYMBOLS Working hard to involve nonpartners in firm affairs and winning their
