not going well?” I’m not going to answer that. But I might answer “What don’t you have time for?” I can answer that without feeling uncomfortable. While I am unlikely to tell you
my problems, I may be willing to acknowledge problems you already know about. For example, ask me why we do things the way we do, why we haven’t tried certain op­ tions. Instead of
asking “What problems do you have with that way of doing things?” say “Some of our other clients who do things the way you do have had to contend with the following issues as a
result. What have you done to deal with those consequences?” That question gives you an opportunity to show you are familiar with my type of situa­ tion, and it doesn’t confront or
challenge me. If I do begin to show interest in a given issue, your next task is to convince me (or get me to convince myself) that the issue is big enough to bother with.
Remember, I don’t like working with professionals, and only do so when I have to. So I’ll only proceed if I’m convinced the benefit is big enough and certain enough (two separate
issues) to jus­ tify the expense, discomfort and disruption of using you. Before I want to hear how you’ll solve my problem, you need to get me to agree that it’s worth solving.
Your most productive tactic here is to ask me “How valuable would it be if . . . ?” and complete that sentence by describing some future 118 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F
irm state of affairs that you can get me to. Help me picture in my mind the benefits I will receive by reaching that state of affairs. If you get me excited about the possible
benefits (not by asserting them, but by get­ ting me to admit that they would be desirable), I will then want to know more about how you can get me there. If I don’t acknowledge
the benefit, nothing else you say will be of any interest to me. If I’m still with you, interested in (maybe) proceeding, I may ask you how you would go about handling my affairs.
Don’t rush to give me a singular, concrete answer as to “your firm’s approach.” It may be one I’m not interested in. For example, maybe I want the “perma­ nent fix”—that version of
the assignment that deals with the issue once and for all. Or perhaps I might want the “quick fix”—that ver­ sion that shows results as soon as possible. Perhaps I will be more
interested in proceeding so as to incur the minimum disruption to my ongoing operations, or concerned about the extent of involvement and effort required by me and my people. The
key here is to give me options, help me understand their ad­ vantages and disadvantages, and let me choose. If you tell me “your firm’s approach,” it strikes me as standardized. By
educating me as to alternate ways to proceed, I get value from the education. By letting me choose, I am also left with the sense that you’re the type of pro­ fessional who will
respect my judgment and involve me. Recognize that it’s unlikely that I’m going to say “yes” or “no” in front of you. I’m going to consult before I make a decision. So don’t
pressure me. Don’t try any “closing techniques” on me. Give me rea­ sons and reasoning I can use when I consult with my superiors and colleagues. Instead of reaching for a sale
every meeting, make your objective one of making progress in our relationship. Maybe I’ll agree to meet one of your specialist partners, or consent to provide addi­ tional
information to you, or provide access to one of my other exec­ utives. Perhaps I’ll participate in one of your seminars or agree to an additional, more focused meeting. Any one of
these should be taken as a success. If you try to rush me, I’ll take it as a sign that you are more interested in making a sale than in helping me. I may ask you to submit a
proposal, but never forget that since my ultimate decision is based on who I trust, the sale will be made in the face-to face time we spend together. The vast majority of
professional projects are awarded at the preproposal stage: the formal proposal and/or presentation merely confirm (or destroy) a decision already How Clients Choose 119 made. If
you can’t afford to spend time, in contact, up-front, don’t bother writing the proposal. Here’s what I want if I ask you to make a presentation. Sit down, distribute your materials
in advance, and let’s go through them to­ gether. Don’t lower the lights, put up your slides, stand up, and walk me through your canned speech. It makes me feel I am being lectured
to. If I want to ask about something, don’t say “we’ll get to that.” It makes me feel that you’re inflexible. If I interrupt you, deal with my question. I want to see how you
handle yourself when I ask a question, not judge how practiced you are at your standard spiel. Most of you rehearse your presentations, but rehearse the wrong things. I’m not
looking for how smoothly you can get through your practiced presentation. That’s not what influ­ ences my decision. Rather, I give great weight to how flustered you get when I ask
hard questions. Flunk that test, and I’m not sure you’re the one I want to trust. What you should be rehearsing are your responses to my questions. I want you to prove that you can
listen, by picking up on my com­ ments, adapting, in real time, what you say to what I’ve just said. Involve me. Ask what I think. I know someone’s listening to me when they show
the ability to depart from their prepared scripts and base their subsequent comments on what I’ve just said. If you don’t have the talent to depart from your script when I throw a
curve ball (and I’m going to), then why should I believe in your abilities? When I challenge you with an objection, hear it out, don’t inter­ rupt. Don’t tell me I shouldn’t be
concerned about that: I’ve just told you I am concerned. Acknowledge what I said as a valid concern. I’ll let you rephrase and soften it, but make sure you check for my accep­
tance of your rephrasing. Then give me an answer, and ask me whether I accept your answer. Don’t try to “survive the moment” by waffling and moving on. You may get out of an
uncomfortable moment, but I’m going to be left with the feeling that you didn’t answer my ques­ tion—and that means I don’t trust you. I’ll be impressed if you’ve clearly
anticipated me and thought of that objection or concern be­ fore—it shows me that you’ve taken the time to see things from my perspective. So predict my objections and practice
your responses as part of your preparation—on such things are sales won or lost. 120 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm CONCLUSION There is an old saying about doctors that
they “get fascinated with the disease, but are not interested in the patient.” Unfortunately, this at­ titude (and behavior) is all too prevalent in a wide array of profes­ sions.
Too many professionals get overly focused on technical matters, and lose sight of the essential relationship nature of professional trans­ actions. This doesn’t mean that technical
skill is irrelevant—of course, it is critical. But having technical skills is only a necessary condition for success, not a sufficient one. Above all else, what I, the client, am
looking for, is that rare professional who has both technical skill and a sincere desire to be helpful, to work with both me and my problem. The key is empathy— the ability to
enter my world and see it through my eyes. CHAPTER 11 ATTRACTING NEW CLIENTS The list of possible marketing tactics that a firm can use to attract new clients is an old, familiar
one. (See Table 11-1.) It is also a long list, but one to which solid priorities can be assigned. Some simple prin­ ciples can guide the choice of marketing tactics. The first, and
most important, is the “Raspberry Jam Rule”— the wider you spread it, the thinner it gets. The broader the audience you attempt to reach, the weaker is the impact. (The rule was
originated by Gerald Weinberg in his book, The Secrets o f Consulting.1) Rather than paying a little at­ tention to a lot of prospects, it is always better to give more attention
to a smaller, well-selected audience. Second, marketing works when it demonstrates, not when it as­ serts. Marketing tactics that illustrate one’s competence (such as speeches,
seminars, and articles) are infinitely more powerful than those which assert it (such as brochures, direct mail, and “cold calls” to “let me tell you more about our firm.” ) Third,
“in person” marketing tactics should be given preference over attempts to communicate with the written word (with one im­ portant exception, discussed below). The main goal of all
marketing tactics should be to get away as soon as possible from “broadcasting a general message to a wide au­ dience” and move to a highly individualized face-to-face dialogue be-
121 122 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm T A BL E 1 1 -1 Marketing Tactics in Descending Order of Effectiveness The first team Seminars (small-scale) Speeches at client
industry meetings Articles in client-oriented (trade) press Proprietary research The Second String Community/civic activities Networking with potential referral sources Newsletters
Clutching at straws tactics Publicity Brochures Seminars (ballroom scale) Direct mail Cold calls Sponsorship of cultural/sports events Advertising Video brochures tween prospect
and partner. Since the essence of getting hired is getting a specific individual client to talk about his or her problems, the sooner you can commence the dialogue, the better the
tactic. Professional services are not a “mass” business—clients are acquired one at a time, and any marketing program must reflect this. Finally, marketing must be a seduction, not
an assault. It must not scream “hire me!” but must gently suggest “Here is some concrete evidence as to why you may want to get to know me better.” Mar­ keting is truly about
attracting clients— doing something that causes them to want to take the next step (such as telling you about their problems). Since all clients are skeptical, they need to be
given a good reason to expose their problems to you, and need to do so without feeling that, by responding, they are committing themselves to go all the way. THE FIRST TEAM The
marketing tactics that best meet these tests are small-scale semi­ nars, speeches, articles, and proprietary research. What all four have in common is that they all involve giving
something to the prospective clients—new facts, new knowledge, new ideas. They pass the test of trying to capture the market’s attention by “demonstrating” the firm’s usefulness,
not just asserting it. SMALL-SCALE SEMINARS Seminars top the list of effective tactics, but only if done correctly. Some key guidelines must be followed. Since the goal of
marketing is to try to launch individualized dialogues, a seminar must never be more than twenty-five prospective clients. (If you want to reach two hundred people, do it eight
times!) To maintain the personalized in­ timacy, the ratio of prospects to firm members in attendance must never be more than five to one. As soon as you know which prospects are
going to attend, you should instruct your research staff (marketing directors, librarians, junior professionals, etc.) to conduct the most thorough research job possible on each
company attending. Don’t be hesitant in invest­ ing money here. The goal should be to get all there is to know on each company (and possibly even the person attending) that is
knowable from the public domain. For example, use computer data bases, call their industry association, get their 10-Ks, call the Wall Street analysts that cover their industry,
call their public affairs de­ partment to get their product brochures. In short, if it’s available, get it! Since partners will be too busy to read large volumes of paper, the
research staff should be instructed to prepare an eight-page brief­ ing booklet on what they need to know about that prospective client. The seating at the seminar will not be
random. A specific partner will sit with five specific prospective clients on whom she has received a briefing booklet. Now the partner can begin the conversation with “As soon as
we knew you were coming, we tried to do our homework. We noticed that you have had this level of court activity, you have launched three new products, your key ratios seem
different from your competitors’. That must be challenging, how are you dealing with the consequences?” 124 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm With this opening, something
important has been accomplished. By giving direct evidence of having done your homework, you have given the client evidence on which to form some preliminary impressions about you.
The prospect will begin to suspect that you are: • Disciplined and organized • Thorough and do your homework before meetings • Enterprising • Willing to invest in the relationship
• Interested in his business • Interested in him (or her) and not treating him like a cold call In short, you’re professional in your approach. Already, you have distinguished
yourself from the typical professional. And the seminar hasn’t yet begun! When it does begin, the seminar presenter should speak for no more than twenty to thirty minutes, and
should then suggest that everyone have small table discussions. Note that the speaker does not say “Any questions?” The goal is to get the conversation away from twenty-five to one
“in the mass” conversation toward the five to one “intimate discussion” where people are more likely to open up and join the conversation. Your partner sitting at each table can
now say “Was that your issue?” If the prospect says “No, that didn’t cover my con­ cern,” your person can say “Well, what is your concern?” Now we have the client talking about his
business— which is the key to all business getting. The seminar proceeds in this fashion: twenty-minute presentation, twenty-minute small table discussions, then back to the
speaker. From the attendee’s point of view, such a seminar maximizes the chance that he or she can raise specific issues, and hence is likely to be welcomed by them. The follow-up
to the seminar (the next step in the seduction) should now be comfortable. Your partner can call those who sat at the same table and say: “You and I spent the morning talking about
the issues in your business. You said that the seminar didn’t cover certain key issues and I’ve been back to the office and researched them, and I’d like to come by and show you my
findings.” That sort of follow-up call is comfortable for the professional and usually welcome by the prospective client because the partner will be customizing his or her comments
and not wasting his (or her) time. SPEECH ES The second major opportunity to “give” ideas to prospective clients, in order to demonstrate special competence, is to give speeches at
client industry meetings, chambers of commerce, and other forums where prospective clients gather. The goal of an effective speech is not to “impress” the whole audience (in case
they might ever need your services). That’s nice PR, but it doesn’t produce much revenue. Your main task in a speech is to make the handful of prospective clients who have need of
your services today want to contact you afterwards to learn more. One tactic to make this happen is to offer to hold a small round­ table discussion for those who are interested,
either later in the day, at a coffee break, or over cocktails. Another is to refuse to hand out copies of your speech at the meeting, but suggest that those who are interested can
get copies of it by leaving their business card. A third is to hand out a brief questionnaire and tell the audience that anyone who would like the survey results should attach his
or her card and you’d be happy to send them the results. In all of these devices, you are screening out those who are poor prospects (they’re not even inter­ ested in taking one
small step) so you can focus your marketing efforts and time on those few who have expressed interest (the Raspberry Jam Rule). What all of these tactics have in common is the
seduction princi­ ple—creating a situation where those who are interested (maybe) can, without commitment or threat, express the beginnings of interest. You make it easy for them
to take the next step toward you without the fear that they will be bombarded with a sales pitch. Don’t forget that a speech is inevitably an opportunity to convey not only your
content (and your brilliance) but what kind of profes­ sional you are. For example, someone who reads his or her speech comes across as insecure and uncertain, and not in command
of the subject matter. Never use a script, and never use notes. If at all pos­ sible, try for audience participation in the form of questions and an­ swers as early as possible
(the goal is not to get through your material, but to create a favorable impression). You want to demonstrate with your speech that you can think on your feet, you can handle unex­
pected questions, you are interested in listening as well as talking. All these things are characteristics that a client wants in his advisor—use the speech to demonstrate that you
have them. 126 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm ARTICLES Although they may fail the tests of being face-to-face and customized, articles in client-oriented trade magazines
and newspapers are a pow­ erful means of demonstrating your competence (and having some­ thing special to say that distinguishes you from the competition) and hence are very
effective in giving prospective clients a reason why they should talk with you. (Articles written for professional and technical journals may bring professional glory, but it is
articles in the clientoriented press that bring in the business.) The power of articles derives from the multiple uses to which they may be put. Apart from the distribution they
receive from their initial publication, they may be reprinted and handed out at speeches and seminars, and they can be a powerful substitute for brochures. How much more effective
it is when a prospective client makes an enquiry to say “Yes, we’ve written a few articles on that subject, let me send them to you” than to say “Here’s our brochure!” The life of
a wellwritten, reader-friendly article can be many years. Articles can have a credentializing effect. Since many if not most professionals do not write for the client press, what
begins as “an” article on a subject can easily become “the” article. Over time, articles can be accumulated into a bound book which, though less likely to be read from cover to
cover, helps to create the image that the firm “wrote the book” on a given area of practice. Getting ideas for articles is rarely a problem. Most effective articles are 2,000 to
5,000 words of the form “If you have the following issue to address, here are the pros and cons of your major alternatives, here are some things to take into account, and here are
some lessons we’ve learned recently about the best way to proceed.” By implication, though never explicitly, the article suggests “. . . and if you’d like to hear more, call me!”
There must, of course, be enough substantive content to make the reader want to call. The power of articles is such that it would be wise to set a target of one article per year
per professional. In a medium-to-large firm, this would represent a significant amount of market exposure. The limi­ tation on accomplishing this is not things to write about. Most
pro­ fessionals learn something in a year of practice that would be of interest to prospective clients. Rather, the limitation is discipline: the act of writing. To address this
barrier, many professional firms make Attracting New Clients 127 available to their partners free-lance journalist ghostwriters who do the actual writing subject to the partners’
dictating and editing. PROPRIETARY RESEARCH If the goal of marketing is to demonstrate that you have something to offer that your competitors do not, conducting research on topics
of interest to prospective clients is an obvious, if neglected, tool. Though discussed here last, research logically precedes the three main tactics of seminars, articles, and
speeches. For each of these to be effective, you need to have special information. If you do have special informa­ tion facts they cannot get elsewhere, prospects will come to your
sem­ inar. If the planned content covers what any competitor could present, they are unlikely to come. (It’s usually a good idea to charge for a seminar: It forces you to ensure
that you have something special to say, and that there’s real value in the content. It also helps you ensure that those who attend are good prospects in that they are willing to
pay to discuss the topic.) If you have special information, your articles and speeches will be listened to with interest. (Clients today are bom­ barded with articles, speeches,
and seminars that contain generalities and do not distinguish the author or presenter from any of his or her competent competitors.) What kind of special information can you
collect that your com­ petitors do not have? Obviously, it might be technical or professional, but it can also be general survey research. Imagine, for example, that you have
conducted an opinion survey of all the executives in a given industry, and asked them to prioritize the trends they worry about most, list the tactics they make greatest use of,
identify which devices they have made use of, and so on. You are now in a position to report that X percent of executives in a given sector have tried Y, Z percent think that these
are the most threatening issues, and so on. The infor­ mation may not be very technical or professional, but you will have created a set of facts that any prospect would like to
obtain, since every company would like to know how it compares to others. (Ask yourself how often you have heard clients ask “Who else is doing this?” “What are other companies
doing?” “How do we compare to other clients of yours?” ) A number of professional firms are very organized in this area, and have used it to great effect. Some, for example, get
client industry associations to sponsor (and guide) the research, creating two won- 128 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm derful benefits: First, a patina of “official
research” is created, posi­ tioning the firm as a primary source of information for clients; and second, the industry association will sometimes underwrite part or all of the cost
of the research. Apart from its support of articles, seminars, and speeches, research can also provide the substance for getting quoted and other public relations, although this is
a lesser side benefit. THE SECOND STRING TACTICS In stressing the importance of seminars, articles, speeches, and re­ search, I do not mean to imply that other marketing tactics do
not work. They all work, to a degree. Rather, the issue is one of effective­ ness and return on investment—which tactics should come first. This needs to be stressed as we turn to
the tactics of community and civic involvement, networking with potential referral sources (such as bankers, etc.). In many professions these tactics have been the tradi­ tional
mainstays of business development. Every firm has a major rainmaker who seems to collect business on the golf course, on the opera board, at the cocktail party. Such activities can
be powerful, especially in smaller communities. They have the virtue that they are face-to-face in approach, are not “broadcasting” in nature, and usually are appropriately
conducted as a slow courtship. However, I relegate them to the second tier for one simple reason: while the return may be there, the required time invest­ ment is high. No one wins
new business quickly through networking and community activities. The payoff comes after many patient years of getting to know people. Further, my observation of shifts in client
buying patterns suggests that “purchasing” professional services is becoming more formal, and fewer deals are done today on the golf course. The message is simple: if you’re doing
the articles, speeches, and seminars, by all means get involved in community activities. It’s a wonderful add-on, but a poor substitute. Also in the second-tier category are
newsletters. In principle, these should be effective marketing tools, since they represent a form of demonstrating competence, even if they are not face-to-face or cus­ tomized.
However, they lose their effectiveness for a variety of rea­ sons. First, so many firms are using this device, that clients and potential clients tend to receive remarkably similar
newsletters with Attracting New Clients 129 the same information (which probably means that you need to have one, but it won’t buy you much by itself). In numerous client panels I
have conducted, I have frequently heard clients complain, “Don’t just send me your latest firmwide or practice-wide update on latest devel­ opments—it’s too generic! What I really
want [to get] is an interpre­ tation of what it means for my company. ” A similar problem derives from the fact that newsletters are often published on a regular schedule, and
this, almost inevitably, leads to a deterioration in quality. A newsletter is put out not because the part­ ners have something new to say, but because it’s time to put an issue
out. Done well, a newsletter can be powerful. But like a good article, it must have real substance, a point of view, and offer an interpreta­ tion of recent events, not just an
unprocessed reporting of them. “CLUTCHING AT STRAWS” TACTICS When getting organized for marketing, many firms think first about publicity: getting quoted and getting stories on the
firm into the busi­ ness press. For many years, I took it on faith that this must be a pow­ erful tactic, since so many firms spend so much money here. However, over time, I have
come to learn that while being quoted and profiled is nice (my mother and my clients’ mothers like it), it has rarely proven to be a significant source of new business. It’s good
for the ego, but it doesn’t do that much for the pocketbook. (One of my clients was profiled on the front page of the Wall Street Journal and received one phone call as a result.)
As always, the message here is not to avoid the press, nor is it to spend nothing on publicity. Simply stated, this is what you do if and only if you have money and time left after
doing all of the above. In a similar vein, I have always been surprised at the emphasis that professional firms have given to brochures. In many firms, it appears that these are
viewed as a primary marketing tool. Of course, they are not. They are the glossy equivalent of a business card. You almost certainly need to have one, but it won’t do much for you.
Nearly all brochures contain grandiose assertions, and little dem­ onstration of competence. They also frequently break the first rule of selling: “Stress benefits not features,”
that is, talk about what you can deliver for the client, not the characteristics of your firm. They also break the Raspberry Jam Rule: They list long lists of specialties, trying
to impress the reader that they can (and do) do almost anything. Of 130 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm course, the effect on the reader is quite the opposite: the longer
the list of competencies asserted, the more the reader is left with the impres­ sion that the firm does not have a special interest in the area of the client’s specific problem. If
you are going to use brochures, it might be helpful to keep two guidelines in mind. First, having many practice area brochures is bet­ ter than having one firmwide brochure.
Practice area brochures can be targeted more to the special needs of the reader. Second, the inclusion of specific, real case histories (disguised if necessary) allow you to
illustrate what you have done (rather than stress generalities) and stress the benefits obtained for the client. Also in the “clutching at straws” category are ballroom-scale sem­
inars, where success is measured by the number of people who come to listen to you. These can be worth doing, but only as general public relations. You may raise your “name
recognition,” and that’s not bad, but you won’t get much revenue. If you’ve done all of the above, do this. If not, skip it. Direct mail is also generally an ineffective tactic,
although it can become effective under one condition. First, it depends what you send out. If you send out a firm brochure, or other literature of a solicita­ tion nature, it is
unlikely to yield any result. However, if what you send out has a chance of being of value to the recipient (a research study, an article, etc.), then there is a slight chance that
it will be read and that you will receive a response. Although it truly is clutching at straws, if you’ve got the “helpful material” then it is relatively inex­ pensive (i.e.,
requiring no partner time) to mail it out. Do cold calls work? Yes, everything works sometimes. Is it a good investment of partner time to telephone, unsolicited, potential
clients? Almost certainly not. Some large firms have added this to their mar­ keting mix, and report that if a meeting can be arranged, and if re­ search on the prospect is done
prior to the meeting, then a customized, face-to-face conversation can take place. However, I see little evidence that this tactic should precede any of those higher on the list.
Should you sponsor cultural/social events or PBS programs? Should you advertise? Sure, if you’ve got money to spend. Are these things better than articles, seminars, and speeches?
Heck, no. Finally, what about the latest idea, video brochures? I’ve seen a couple of effective ones. What made them effective was that they pre­ Attracting New Clients 131 sented
case histories, including client interviews (with an implicit tes­ timonial), telling the story of a difficult case and how the firm tackled the issue, dealt with the client, and
brought about a wonderful result. They were dramatic, fun to watch, full of detail, and showed how the partners and client worked together. They left the viewer feeling “If they
can do that for that client, maybe they can do that for me!” Unfortunately, I’ve also seen deathly boring video brochures telling the viewer about our fine firm, showing the dots
on the map where we have offices (including all the foreign countries where we have corre­ spondent relationships) and listing the two hundred services we pro­ vide. How many times
does it need to be said? Boasting doesn’t sell. CONCLUSION What is eternally fascinating to me is that when I poll partners in individual firms as to which of the tactics they
think really work, their order of priorities is rarely much different from that presented here. However, when I ask where the marketing resources are actually go­ ing, I find an
abundance of “clutching at straws” tactics and a signif­ icant underinvestment in “first” team tactics. The issue, as I see it, is for firms to begin implementing what they say
they believe. Another challenge is presented by the fact that many firms are em­ ploying the right tactics, but in a disorganized way—a seminar for this audience, a speech to that
target group, an article aimed at a third part of the market. This is clearly inefficient and ineffective. No one tactic, no matter how well executed, will work alone. The
seduction or courtship that marketing should be requires a planned, organized, sequence of events, gently drawing the client into an ever deeper interest in you and your firm. Done
right, a planned mix of marketing activities aimed at a consistent audience can make you irresistibly attractive, and lead the clients to the right conclu­ sion—that it is with you
that they want to have a relationship. CHAPTER 12 MANAGING THE MARKETING EFFORT Some time ago, I was conducting a weekend-long workshop with a major professional service firm on
the topics of marketing and selling their services. Many subjects were covered, including strategic posi­ tioning, targeting of key prospects, selling skills, client service, and
the relative merits of seminars, brochures, and newsletters. Toward the end of this two-day workshop, one of the participants stood up and said, ‘This has all been very
interesting, but you have just confirmed what we all already knew about this subject. Why don’t you ask us why we haven’t been doing it?” This challenge sparked a spirited
discussion that led to a litany of managerial, operational, and personal reasons that had impeded these professionals from executing past marketing initiatives. Indeed, they did
already know what they should and could be doing, but had not implemented what they knew. This same pattern has been repeated time and again within profes­ sional firms. Past
attempts at organizing marketing efforts simply have not delivered results, in spite of a good understanding of “what works.” From these experiences, I have learned that, for many
pro­ fessional firms, the “marketing problem” is frequently not really about marketing. Rather, it is a managerial problem: how to ensure that “things happen.” 133 134 M anaging
the P rofessional Service F irm THE PROBLEM The central issue, I have learned, is that, in most firms, billable time is carefully monitored, but marketing time is considered
“extra.” Mar­ keting activities represent an investment, requiring nonbillable time to be spent with uncertain, long-term results, and few firms are well or­ ganized to manage
their investment activities. Billable time has a high profile and receives close attention; nonbillable time is a disorganized jumble of sometimes productive, often times
nonproductive activities that no one understands (or cares to tackle). Some firms attempt to “manage” their marketing by rewarding marketing successes (“We reward results; effort
is rewarded in heaven” ). This, I have learned, is insufficient. Many professionals, especially those unsure of their abilities in marketing, view invest­ ments in marketing, even
where there is a reward for success, as a more risky way to spend their time than the more certain path of staying highly billable. Rewarding results only is no way to encourage
marketing novices to participate. There is also the problem of recognizing teamwork. If marketing success is rewarded, who then gets the credit for organizing a seminar, writing an
article, giving a speech? Each of these may have played an important role in landing new assignments, but it can be very difficult to attribute any particular new piece of business
to any one of these activities. As a consequence, there may be many volunteers to partic­ ipate in a concrete, specific proposal, where the efforts and result are highly visible,
but a reluctance to accept responsibility for the back­ ground efforts (such as conducting proprietary research) that gener­ ate the opportunities to propose. An additional problem
in many firms’ approach to rewarding re­ sults is that success in winning new clients is often rewarded more (or at least achieves higher visibility and is celebrated more) than
winning new business from existing clients. Professionals often “know” that their existing clients represent the best source of new business, but are lured by the reward systems of
the firm to devote their energies to trying to win “origination credits” by landing new clients. The result of all of this is that many marketing activities go ne­ glected,
unmanaged, or uncoordinated. Each professional decides whether or not to participate, and which activities to engage in. The Managing the Marketing Effort 135 result is a somewhat
random allocation of the firm’s marketing invest­ ment. Certain high-visibility activities often receive excess investment, while others, frequently crucial to the firm’s success,
are neglected. MANAGING THE EFFORT The solution to the problem is for firms to learn how to manage their marketing efforts, not just results. In doing so, all senior professionals
need to be involved. There is a common misconception that marketing and selling are specialized skills possessed by a limited number of professionals (“natural rainmakers” ). This
view ignores the fact that, to develop its practice, a firm needs to invest in a wide range of activ­ ities, each of which requires a different set of skills and behaviors. For
example, most firms should invest some of their nonbillable market­ ing time in: • Writing articles • Spending time with executives of existing clients, to understand their
business better and to win follow-on assignments • Conducting publishable proprietary research • Organizing and delivering seminars • Giving speeches • Gathering market
intelligence on new needs by, for example, at­ tending client industry conferences • Community involvement and networking None of these activities requires “rainmaking skill”
(whatever that is). Each requires a very different skill. Participating in a winning pro­ posal is often where the glory is in many firms, but it should be seen for what it is: the
culmination of a marketing process, not the end-all and be-all of marketing. A professional who cannot “sell” may nev­ ertheless be perfect to write an article that, when published
in a client magazine, gains the firm significant attention. Someone else may be perfectly suited to developing and organizing a seminar that another person would better at
delivering. The central point is that practice development is inherently a team activity. No one person is likely to have all the skills (let alone the time) to perform all of the
steps necessary to develop the practice. Rather, firms need individuals to cover all the bases: existing clients as well as new, generating leads as well as pursuing them,
back-room preparation as well as public presentation. 136 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm A first step is to adopt a policy that each and every partner is ex­ pected to
contribute in some way to the marketing effort. Specifically, I recommend setting a minimum time allocation for each and every partner to invest in practice development. Knowing
that all of one’s peers will be investing roughly the same amount of time can be very motivating in ensuring diligent execution of marketing tasks. Partners are not told which
activities to do. To a large extent, they are free to play to individual strengths. But everyone must do something. In most firms, this could and should involve senior nonpartner
staff, who are a vastly underused resource in business development. There is a clear merit in starting to build practice development skills early in a professional’s career. While
they may not be ready to participate in, say, giving speeches, they can be well used in other activities such as article writing, preparation of seminars, researching client needs,
and the like. For example, a perfect place to get junior professionals (and other marketing novices) involved is with existing clients. Frequently, firms attempting to obtain
greater involvement in practice development find that there is less resistance to (and more enthusiasm for) learning the best ways to maintain good client relations than there is
to learning “how to sell.” Yet the skills are the same. Professionals who are good at client counseling are the same ones who excel at selling. Both areas require the same set of
skills: understanding the client’s business, lis­ tening, asking the right questions, persuading, and following through. If firms wish to get more people involved in practice
development, they should reward marketing experimentation and not just success­ ful experiments. Anyone learning a new skill will suffer early failures and temporary setbacks. To
encourage perseverance, firms should concentrate as much on praise and recognition for the quality of effort as they do for immediate results. In doing so, they help breed the
