client executives on top of what the professionals are already doing goes a long way in cementing relationships, assuring client satisfac­ tion, and uncovering new business issues
with decision makers. Of course, the visits also act as a powerful quality assurance function. If a manager can use time and position to support senior professionals in this area,
it will have a highly leveraged impact and deserves 20 to 40 percent of the manager’s time. The percentages given above are not, of course, absolutes. For ex­ ample, a manager in a
very large practice may have so much oppor­ tunity to make an impact in the client relations and coaching areas that it is sensible for him or her to reduce his or her personal
billable hours to zero, establishing and retaining credibility solely through assisting others with their client work and client relations activities. Some managers reviewing the
five categories of activity might ask “Where is the time for doing strategy and planning, for sitting alone and thinking?” I believe strongly that a manager sitting alone is not
managing. Strategy and planning are not distinct from the activities described above. If the manager is active in visiting clients to discuss their emerging issues, and active in
meeting with partners individually or in small groups, then the strategic task will be well executed. WHO SHOULD COACH? It should be clear from this discussion that, except in the
smallest of firms, one person cannot possibly coach all other partners. Accord­ ingly, coaching should be the responsibility not only of the managing partner, but of each and every
one of the departmental practice heads in the firm. Unfortunately, while departmental practice leaders often understand the importance of their role, they don’t always act upon it.
When working with practice group leaders, I often ask the question: “If you had an extra day per week to spend on increasing the success of your practice group, what would you do
with that day?” The most common answer is “Spend more time with my partners.” “Doing what?” I ask. The replies to this question include much of what we have discussed above:
following up on planned initiatives, motivating partners, cheering them on, solving problems and conflicts such as staffing or scheduling, holding small-team meetings to develop
action 216 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm plans, and discussing strategies. They readily agree that performing these activities would make a significant difference to
the success of the practice. “Then why don’t you spend that day a week?” I ask. “Too busy,” comes the reply, “We’ve got to stay billable.” Let’s do the arithmetic on this argument.
Let’s examine a practice leader who is responsible for a group containing ten partners, with total billings of $8 million and a profit of $3 million. (Naturally, you should
substitute your own numbers in this example.) One day a week represents 20 percent of the practice leader’s time. Let’s assume a 2,500-hour year. This translates into 500 fewer
billed hours. (We’ll assume the practice leader keeps up all other activities, including busi­ ness development, but just reduces his or her billable time by 500 hours.) Now assume
that the practice leader’s billing rate is $400 per hour. This means a cost of $200,000. What is the probability that with one day a week available (week-in, week-out, throughout
the year) to focus on managing an $8 million practice generating $3 mil­ lion in profit, the practice leader could recoup an investment of $200,000? If the practice leader has any
managerial skill, the proba­ bility should be very high, perhaps over 99 percent. It might even be worth considering having the coach manage for two days a week! What this analysis
attempts to show is that it is clearly more eco­ nomic for the practice leader to help other people become success­ ful—or even more successful than they already are— rather than
focusing on his or her own activities. The practice leader’s job is not to be the most successful practitioner in the group, nor its best salesper­ son. Instead, the job is to help
others succeed as practitioners and salespeople. EVALUATING THE PRACTICE LEADER Since the job of the practice leader is to help the group succeed, prac­ tice leaders should be
judged on how well they accomplish this task. They should never be evaluated on their individual performance (i.e., their personal numbers on such things as billings, business
generation, etc.), since this sets up an irreconcilable tension between what they are being asked to do, and how they are measured. Instead, practice lead­ ers should be explicitly
judged on the aggregate performance results of the group they manage (i.e., total group billings, total group business generation). In addition, practice leaders should receive
feedback. Like every How Practice Leaders Add Value 217 partner, a practice leader has clients. However, a practice leader’s main clients are not those outside the firm, but the
partners within the group. To ensure that practice leaders are fulfilling their role, some firms have instituted a feedback system from the partners in the group to the practice
leader. Each of the partners anonymously rates the practice leader on questions such as those shown in Figure 19-1. The results are tabulated by a third party, and the practice
leader (and, in some cases, firm management) receives the aggregate results. Although many firms break this rule, it is also important that prac­ tice leaders do not receive
“position pay,” that is, they should not automatically be compensated more highly for taking on the coaching role. Like everyone else, they should be paid for performance—their
group’s performance. Such a reward system should help the practice leader in performing the role since all the team members will know that the only way for the practice leader to
succeed is by helping them succeed. This should make them more ready to accept the practice leader’s direction and suggestions. THE MANAGEMENT STRAIN Naturally, it takes a talented
person to be able to do well on the cri­ teria shown in Figure 19-1, and an even more special kind of person willing to be held accountable for performing against those criteria.
Not everyone has what it takes to be an effective practice leader. The more I spend time with professional service firms, the more I realize how different the required skills are
between being an outstanding professional and being an effective manager, and how stressful the manager’s role can be. On an average day, the typical professional can concentrate
his or her attentions on one or two major projects, staying focused and prob­ ably ending the day with visible signs of progress. For the typical manager of professionals, the day
is broken up into numerous small chunks of amazing diversity: dealing with a disgruntled client, han­ dling the personal problems of a staff member, analyzing financial reports,
interviewing a potential new recruit, approving various ad­ ministrative arrangements, working on a new business presentation, and a thousand other matters, each of which must, in
rapid succes­ sion, command the manager’s full attention. The ability to change mental gears rapidly is one of the manager’s most important talents, as is the ability to
continuously evaluate and reshuffle priorities. 218 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm FIG U RE 1 9 -1 Evaluation of the Practice Leader To evaluate the practice leader,
please complete the following questions. Indicate your agreement or disagreement, using the following scale: 1 = Strongly disagree; 2 = Somewhat disagree; 3 = Neither agree or
disagree; 4 = Somewhat agree; 5 = Strongly agree THE PRACTICE LEA D ER......... Is more often encouraging than critical 1 Is accessible when I want to talk Keeps informed about
what I am doing 1 1 Is fair in dealings with partners 1 Causes me to stretch for performance goals 1 Is concerned about long-term issues, not just short-term profits 1 1 Conducts
team meetings in a manner that breeds involvement Is consultative in his/her decision making Is sufficiently involved with nonpartners and their issues 1 1 Provides constructive
feedback that helps me improve my performance 1 Is a source of creative ideas about our business Gives me the freedom to set my own goals Makes me feel that I am a member of a
well-functioning team 1 1 2 2 3 3 2 3 2 2 4 5 4 4 5 5 3 3 4 5 4 5 2 3 5 2 2 3 4 4 2 2 2 3 3 5 4 5 4 5 3 4 5 3 3 4 4 5 4 5 2 3 3 4 5 2 2 5 Acts more like a coach than a boss 1 1
Helps me understand how my tasks fit into the overall objec­ tives for the firm 1 2 3 4 5 Keeps me informed about the things I need to know to perform my role properly. 1 2 3 4 5
Actively encourages me to volunteer new ideas and make sug­ gestions for improvement of the practice 1 2 2 3 4 5 3 4 5 2 3 3 4 4 5 3 4 5 Helps me to grow and develop 1 Encourages
me to initiate tasks or projects I think are important Is publicly generous with credit 1 1 Is prompt in dealing with underperformers Is good at keeping down the level of politics
and “politicking” 1 1 4 5 1 2 2 3 Encourages innovation and calculated risk taking 3 4 5 Relates the total reward system (compensation, recognition, etc.) to job performance,
rather than such things as position or seniority Emphasizes cooperation as opposed to competitiveness between work groups 1 2 3 4 5 1 1 2 3 4 2 3 4 5 5 Is effective in
communicating with partners 2 2 5 H o w Practice Leaders Add Value 219 The manager must also learn to live with a higher level of ambiguity and risk than the typical partner, whose
success or failure, for better or for worse, is in his or her own hands, dependent on what he or she does. The manager must accomplish goals through others, and his or her success
is less under his or her personal control. The results of the typical partner’s work are often clearly visible, and the client feedback frequently prompt. However, for the manager,
the very definition of what “success” means is less clear, and the feedback on whether it has been achieved is more circuitous and ill-defined. Rarely can a manager go home knowing
that something concrete and substantial was ac­ complished today. The manager of professionals must also possess a great deal of “bounce-back ability.” As David Ogilvy put it in
his Ogilvy on Ad­ vertising, 1 the CEO of the professional firm must be a good leader of frightened people and resilient in adversity. Professionals look to their managers for
inspiration, enthusiasm, and confidence (never so much as when things are tough). Rather than indulge the inevitable emo­ tions that accompany daily triumphs and disasters, the
manager must maintain an even keel. Paul Alvarez of Ketchum Communications says the hardest and most important lesson that he had to learn on taking over the managerial reins was
that he had to operate on the principle of “No Good Days, No Bad Days.” To be successful, the coach must also be able to suppress his or her own ego needs, since the very nature of
the job is to make other people feel successful and important. The job of the manager is to build a team, not an empire. The best leaders of professionals are quick to give credit
to others, and to play down their own role in successes—a behavior trait that many superb professionals have to work to acquire at some personal psychological cost. The coach’s job
contains other stresses: Since few professionals like to be told what to do, the manager must act through persuasion and cajoling, even where the manager sees the way clear. Living
with the frustrations of building consensus and resisting the temptation to just act are a permanent struggle. This is particularly true in resisting the temptation to intervene in
the professional work of others. Managers must allow professionals to make their own decisions (and perhaps mistakes) in order to allow them to develop. Since the manager’s job is
to teach, he or she must have patience with those still trying to learn. For many, taking on the manager’s role means giving up a significant 220 M anaging th e P rofessional S
ervice F irm degree of the personal fulfillment that comes from practicing one’s professional craft. Since there are no surer paths to the decline of a professional firm than the
absence of honest, constructive criticism and the failure to confront nonperformers, the coach must also bear the emotionally hard tasks of giving and justifying performance
feedback and, on oc­ casion, termination notices. Managers must also be responsible for reconciling conflicts, especially on the use of resources. In their man­ agement of group
resources, they must routinely arbitrate between partners on who gets what staff member, who chases what lead, who is given what opportunity. Coaching takes time, patience and
ingenuity. It is often frustrating and only occasionally rewarding. The practice leader must have the ability to interact with others in such a way that critiques are accepted as
welcome assistance, not as interference. The practice leader must be able to ask people to stretch without making them resentful or defen­ sive. It requires a style that results in
the practice leader being seen as a personal resource to them, not as a nit-picking supervisor, nor as a boss. Good practice leaders create motivation in others by communi­ cating
and demonstrating their own enthusiasm. Cynicism and excite­ ment are both infectious—which of the two the practice leader communicates is critical. A crucial requirement of
leadership in a professional firm is the ability to earn the trust of others. To trust a leader does not necessarily mean that one always agrees with him or her. Trust is the
conviction that the manager means what he or she says, that the manager cares. That what is being done is not self-serving or driven by ego, but be­ cause he or she is truly
serving the long-term firm purposes. The peo­ ple they coach must believe that the coach’s motives are pure—the coach is not being authoritarian, but is really trying to help. A
coach must make people believe that they are being asked to change not to make the coach look good and not just to benefit the greater glory of the firm, but because the coach has
helped them see what is in it for them . In many firms, regrettably, being appointed as a practice leader is some form of “reward.” The position goes to the most eminent, or the
most senior, or the best business-getter among the partners. None of these criteria is appropriate. Practice leadership should be seen as a role or a responsibility, not a title, a
promotion, or a reward. There is How Practice Leaders Add Value 221 a highly specialized and difficult job to be done here. Naturally, prac­ tice leaders cannot be effective if
they do not have the professional respect of their colleagues. They must have a history of being able to do what they ask others to do. They must be good professionals. But, as in
sports, the coach does not have to be the best player in order to coach well. Finding good coaches in a professional firm is tough. There are few individuals who “naturally”
possess the skills described here. There are even fewer who are eager to give up a portion of their practice to accept the responsibilities discussed. However, given the desire to
learn them, coaching skills can be developed—and therein lies the opportunity. Given both the scarcity and the power of good coaching, it is entirely possible that a firm’s
competitive success can be built on a superior ability to get the best out of its people. CHAPTER 20 HOW TO CREATE A STRATEGY A few years ago, I was given the opportunity to
examine the strategic plans of most of the major competitors in a given professional service marketplace. Each had performed a thorough analysis of the market­ place and had
identified which client industries were most attractive, based on such factors as growth, profitability, need for services, and so on. Each had analyzed carefully the most
attractive clients in these industries, and had identified the most desirable target prospects. Each had analyzed which services and specialties were most in demand among these
target clients. The result of this analytical endeavor (on which each firm scored a perfect ten) was that each firm wrote a strategic plan which read “Our strategy is to target the
following clients in the following designated industries and serve them with the following key services.” Nothing wrong with that. Except that each competitor had exactly the same
list of target clients, industries, and key services: They all had got their arithmetic right. Their strategic plans could have been re­ shuffled and redistributed, with firm names
replaced, and no one would have been the wiser. Rather than finishing their strategy development task, these firms had just reached the starting point. In the jargon of business
schools, strategy development is the search for ways to “ build a competitive 223 224 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm advantage through distinctive capabilities.”
Stripped of its grandiose terminology, this is a straightforward idea: the development of a set of actions that will make the firm’s services m ore valuable to clients than the
services of competing firms. When the most desirable markets to compete in have been identi­ fied, the firm must then turn to the more difficult task of deciding how it will
compete. This next stage of the strategy development effort is clearly less about marketing tactics than about internal, operational matters: how to change the firm’s methods of
delivering services so that clients derive additional benefits from its approach compared to that of the best competitors. Viewed in this light, developing a strategy is
fundamentally a cre­ ative activity, not an analytical one. It’s about finding new ways o f doing things that provide an advantage over the competition. How can this be done? Table
2 0 -1 , while not exhaustive, lists some of the major alternatives. The challenge for an individual firm is not to find a positive answer to each of the questions posed: It would
be unrealistic to expect any single firm to excel on each dimension listed. Rather, the strategy chal­ lenge is to pick two or three of these alternatives and be sufficiently
innovative in finding ways to achieve the extra value for clients in those areas. WHAT SHOULD YOU STRATEGIZE ABOUT? There is a natural, but regrettable, tendency for professional
firms, in their strategy development processes, to focus on new things: ‘‘What new markets does the firm want to enter? What new clients does the firm want to target? What new
services does the firm want to offer?” This focus on new services and new markets is too often a cop-out. A new specialty (or a new office location) may or may not make sense for a
firm, but it rarely does much (if anything) to affect the profit­ ability or competitiveness of the vast bulk of the firm’s existing prac­ tices. On the other hand, an improvement
in competitiveness in the firm’s core businesses will have a much higher return on investment since the firm can capitalize on it by applying it to a larger volume of business.
Unfortunately, enhancing the competitiveness of the existing practice will inevitably require changes in the behavior of the existing partners. TA BLE 2 0 -1 Possible Strategies
for Being More Valuable to Clients a. Can we develop an innovative approach to hiring so that we can be more valuable to clients by achieving a higher calibre of staff than the
competition? b. Can we train our people better than the competition in a variety of technical or “counseling” skills so that they will be more valuable on the marketplace than
their counterparts at other firms? c. Can we develop innovative m ethodologies for handling our matters (or engagements, transactions or projects) so that our delivery of services
becomes more thorough or efficient? d. Can we develop systematic ways of helping, encouraging and, above all, ensuring that our people are skilled at client counseling in addition
to being top technicians? e. Can we become better than our competition at accumulating, disseminating, and building on our firmwide expertise and experience, so that each
professional becomes more valuable in the marketplace by being empowered with a greater breadth and depth of experience? f. Can we organize and specialize our people in innovative
ways, so that they become particularly skilled and valuable to the market because of their focus on a particular market segment’s needs? g. Can we become more valuable to our
clients by being more systematic and diligent about listening to the m arket: collecting, analyzing, and absorbing the details of their business than does our competition? h. Can
we become more valuable to our clients by investing in research and developm ent on issues of particular interest to them? As Table 20-1 suggests, it implies new methods of
operating, new skill development, new accountabilities. In the real world of profes­ sional firms, these changes are potentially disruptive, uncomfortable, contentious, and
political. How much easier to take a view of strategy which in essence says, “Existing partners will carry on as before, and we’ll solve our strategy problem by adding laterals to
develop a new specialty or opening a 226 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm new office in another city!” I describe such reasoning as “adding pim­ ples to the elephant.”
Of course, new specialties and locations must be considered. A firm must have strategies both for new things and for the core: One with­ out the other is insufficient. But it
should never be forgotten what strategy is really all about: changing current methods of operating in order to render more value by existing partners on existing services to
existing market segments. WHO SHOULD DEVELOP THE STRATEGY? One of the most unfortunate myths about the strategy development process is that it is the responsibility of the firm
leadership, or a firm­ wide committee, to develop a strategic plan and then persuade or “sell” the rest of the partnership on following that vision. There are a number of problems
with this approach to developing strategy. First, most professional firms are made up of subgroups pro­ viding significantly varying services to different groups of clients. Con­
sequently, any attempt to address the questions shown in Table 20-1 becomes impossible to achieve if considered at the level of the whole firm. For example, the best way for a
litigation group in a law firm to achieve a competitive advantage may be completely different from what the real estate group in the same firm needs to do to differentiate itself
from its competitors. The consulting division of an accounting firm may require a completely different strategy than what the same firm’s audit group must do to distinguish itself.
Figuring out how to make the firm’s services more valuable to clients logically belongs at the level of each service line, that is, at the practice level. One would be hard pressed
in most professions to identify whole firms that are perceived in the marketplace as differentiated as firms. Clients will readily talk about the strengths and weaknesses of
differ­ ent practice groups within firms, but rarely can they perceive differ­ ences between whole firms (unless the entire firm is built around welldefined specialties).
Accordingly, any attempt to develop a strategy from the top, and striving for actions that will differentiate the whole firm, will be doomed to failure. There is a second problem
with top-down, firmwide strategic plan­ How to Create a Strategy 227 ning. If a central group (however formed) develops a vision of how to compete, then, as noted above, there
remains the task of “persuading” the rest of the partnership to implement the prescribed course of ac­ tion. It is on this rock that most professional firm strategic initiatives
falter. Partners, as we all know, value their autonomy and resist hier­ archical direction. They cannot be “instructed” to practice differently; they can, at best, be convinced.
However, presenting the final conclu­ sions of a strategy developed by others is not a particularly persuasive tactic for obtaining “buy-in.” Any new strategic initiative
concerning the existing practice will inevitably require new modes of behavior on the part of large num­ bers of people, especially partners. Predictably, many traditional pat­
terns of behavior will be challenged, reward systems will frequently have to be modified, and roles and responsibilities reassigned. Accord­ ingly, any strategy development process
must be consultative, one in which individual partners can become convinced that the benefits to them personally of achieving the goals will be worth the personal “costs” of doing
new things or different things. For these reasons, it is essential that the professionals in the firm perform the strategic planning activities themselves. They must “own” the
recommendations if they are to be implemented, and this is hard to achieve if the recommendations are those of a staff group, a management committee, or an outsider. Since strategy
is not just about what the firm wants to achieve, but how the firm is to achieve it and w ho is going to do it, an action plan must be devised, and the best people to do that are
those who are going to be responsible for implementing it. Therefore those people must be involved early. In fact, they should be primarily responsible for developing and proposing
the strategy. People always feel more committed to self-selected goals than to goals and plans imposed from above. The best way to structure the strategy development process in
firms is to do it as much “bottom-up” as possible. What this means is that each practice group (or area) should be asked to develop a strategy for their practice area. They should
be presented with a set of “challeng­ ing” questions (see Table 20-2) about how they plan to improve the competitiveness of their practice area. A date should be scheduled for the
firm’s management to listen to a presentation of their plan, and the management (this is important to the process) should act as “friendly 228 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice
F irm T A BL E 2 0 - 2 Some “Friendly Skeptic” Questions to Appraise a Strategic Plan W hat special capabilities do you plan to have that your best competitors cannot match? Why
can’t they match them? W hat actions will you take to put these capabilities in place? In what way are your investment priorities likely to be different from those o f the
competitors? How do you know the clients will like what you’re planning? W hat field testing have you done? W hat client input have you obtained? W ho will be in charge of
executing each component o f the plan? W ho was involved in the development of this plan? Is everyone in agreement? (Who was not consulted? Do they have a role in executing the
plan?) On whom will you be dependent for the execution of this plan? Do they have sufficient incentive to do their part? Is it in their interests to do what you want? Do you have
to modify your reward systems to make this happen? Specifically, which 5 or 10 clients, by name, represent your most likely source o f expanded business for the next few years? W
hat actions do you plan to take to get closer to these clients? Which new clients are at the top of your priority list? Why? W hat makes you think you can get their business? W hat
is the one most significant thing that each of the main competitors is doing that will affect you? W hat do you plan to do in response? In what way do you plan to take advantage of
the firmwide network? How do you plan to get the cooperation of others? How do you plan to contribute to the firmwide network? How will what you are doing benefit them? W hat are
the staffing implications o f your plans? Where will you get the staff from? W hat are the main assumptions on which your plan is based? Which is the most “ risky” ? (i.e., if it
can go wrong, where will it go wrong?) How will we know if the plan is working? W hat indicators can we agree on, and when shall we review them? W hat early warning signals will
there be if the plan is not working? W hat contingencies have you put in place? How to Create a Strategy 229 skeptic”: challenging, questioning, asking for evidence on specula­
tions, questioning the reasoning, always asking “Who’s going to do it? How do you plan to pull it off? How are the best competitors going to respond? What is your practice area
going to do to promote/assist other groups in the firm?” Usually, the team will be sent away from the first such meeting to revise its thinking, and return for a second
presentation. In most cases, this process will result in a clear plan of action and a request for some form of investment. When the management has listened to (and chal­ lenged)
the plans of each of the groups, it will now be in a position to develop a strategy for the firm. It has heard the “best shot” of each group in describing the opportunities
available, and can now decide on the aggregate level of investment it thinks prudent to make, which opportunities seem the best investment and which will make the firm strongest.
Management can then negotiate with each practice head any modifications for action plans not fully approved or funded. In some firms the formal management group might choose to in­
volve other senior people in either the “friendly skeptic” critique pro­ cess or the final resource allocation decisions, rather than doing it alone. In part this choice will be
based on considerations of whether firm harmony will be promoted or compromised by doing this. The results of this strategy process at the firm level should be a set of “contracts”
between the firm management and the leaders of the various practice groups. The contract should spell out the measurable goals the group is aiming for, the action steps they plan
to take, the investments they require, and the support they need. It is also a good idea to ask for some “milestone” points: “When will we review progress and how will we measure
whether it’s working?” What is important about this strategy development process is that it represents not just a one-time event, but a shift in the ongoing man­ agement processes
of the firm. It puts in place a “conscience” mech­ anism which forces each practice area to consider (and, over time, reconsider) how it is operating, where it is going, and how it
plans to compete. In too many firms, the strategy development process is a discrete activity, wherein the firm attempts to predict where the market is go­ ing and then prepare for
that future. This approach is fatally flawed. Professional marketplaces are too changeable and fluid to “bet the 230 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm firm” on a single
vision of the future. Besides, as noted above, most analytical exercises on “where the market is going” tend to result in firms reaching the same (obvious) conclusions as their
competitors. The strategy development task is not an exercise in forecasting. Rather, the goal is to create the responsive organization; to put in place a set of operating
procedures which force the practitioners to listen to their marketplace on an ongoing basis, not as a one-time piece of market research; to require them to reexamine their methods
of operation periodically with a critical eye on the search for improve­ ment; to commit to actions that benefit the firm in ways that do not necessarily show up in the monthly
profit-and-loss statements of the firm. The strategy process described here is not an exercise in budgeting or goal setting. Many strategy development “exercises” fail because
groups underestimate the practical managerial difficulties of translat­ ing strategic ideas and analyses into action. In their strategy develop­ ment activities groups should spend
a small proportion of their time (say, no more than 20 percent) figuring out what goals they want to achieve, and the rest on devising action plans that will get them there.
Paperwork should be minimized. Managers should not ask for a written strategic plan; rather, they should ask for an interactive pre­ sentation, with only a few overheads or
exhibits. The benefit of the process lies in the thinking and reasoning about the issues that takes place, and the development of (and commitment to) a concrete action plan. Too
many strategic plans lie unchallenged and unread, and hence unimplemented. The only piece of documentation that matters in this process is that listing action commitments: who will
do what and by when. The view of strategy espoused here can be summarized as follows: It is not the responsibility of the firm’s management to develop and enforce a strategy for
the firm. However, it is their responsibility to ensure that strategy development is done. It is not their job to do the thinking and scheming about competitive issues on behalf of
the rest of the partners; it is their job to ensure that partners go through the thinking and scheming process. This does not represent an abandon­ ment or delegation of
management’s responsibility. Rather, it substi­ tutes a vision of the manager as a (demanding) coach, a conscience, instead of the manager as boss, decision maker, or overlord. How
to Create a Strategy 231 This approach is certainly counter to the way strategy is developed in industrial companies. But then, professional firms are not like in­ dustrial
companies. An industrial company CEO, once a course of action has been identified, has the power and authority to make it happen. Not so the managers of a professional firm. In an
industrial company, the same (or similar) products are made again and again: One group can validly consider the “best” way to make the product on behalf of everyone. Not so the
professional firm. In a world of autonomous partners, each with his or her own differing kind of prac­ tice, “bottom-up” strategy development is the only way to go. PERSONAL
STRATEGIC PLANNING The concept of bottom-up strategy development can, and should, be pushed further. In the most successful firms I know, all of the individ­ ual partners act as if
they have personal strategic plans for their own careers—they have each thought through what their special value on the marketplace will be, what will make them more than just one
more practitioner in their specialty, how they plan to achieve this vision of personal career progress. In such an environment, the overwhelming bulk of the strategy de­ velopment
task is done. The firm’s strategy, if it exists, serves solely as the icing on this cake of individual energized, directed efforts. Unfor­ tunately, in too many firms (even in, or
perhaps especially in, those with well developed firmwide strategic plans), the individual partners have no such commitment to a personal development plan. The strat­ egy of the
firm (or even the practice area) is not theirs; it is someone else’s responsibility. A firm will have achieved little if it has developed a formidable strategy but has partners who
have no vision of their personal devel­ opment goals, career strategies, designated specialties, or individual vision of excellence. Again we can note: The job of management in a
professional firm is not to develop a strategy for the partners, but to ensure that they develop one for themselves. To institute this system of personal strategic planning takes
nothing more than practice leaders engaging in private closed-door meetings with each partner and asking “What, precisely, is it that is going to make you special (or even more
special) in the marketplace over the next few years? Would you like to develop a specialized expertise in a 232 M anaging th e P rofessional. S ervice F irm particular technical
area, in certain types of transaction, in the prob­ lems of certain types of clients? You probably can develop cuttingedge expertise in any one of these, but not all of them
simultaneously. The choice is yours. All the firm asks of you is that you focus and stretch; that you pick a career-building goal and work towards it.” By posing this question (and
requiring an answer) practice leaders are ceding to partners, as they should, the autonomy to determine their own professional lives. However, by requiring an answer, they ensure
that partners’ efforts are energized and directed. In theory, such an approach could lead to a practice area becoming unfocused as each individual partner pursues a personal vision
of ex­ cellence. In practice, this is rarely the case. The practice leader posing this question does not just accept whatever the partner says, but in­ stead plays the friendly
skeptic role. For example, he or she may point out that a partner has chosen something that no other partner wants to pursue, and ask “Do you really want to try to develop that
specialty alone? There are some of your colleagues committing themselves to developing a practice in a related area: Would being a part of that team fulfill your ambitions?” In the
course of such negotiations viable teams are likely to emerge. Perhaps the teams will not be as neat as they would have been if the practice leader, in his or her wisdom, had
chosen the strategy for the department, but the likelihood of successful implementation is far higher. As noted frequently, the critical stumbling blocks in strategy development
are making it happen, follow-up, and action implemen­ tation. By basing the process on the personal enthusiasms and ambi­ tions of the individual partners, this problem is greatly
alleviated. THE ROLE OF FIRM MANAGEMENT IN STRATEGY Apart from encouragement (and monitoring) of strategy development at the practice and individual level, a major question that
firm man­ agement should wrestle with is: What can and should the firm be doing to assist the practices and ensure the firm’s competitive success? The management of the firm has
two key roles to play in the strat­ egy development process: It must establish policies concerning the “rules of the game” (firm policies) and “expenditures” (firm-level in­
vestments and funding). How to Create a Strategy 233 It is part of management’s job to ask: “How will we get others to behave differently (more competitively) than in the past? Are
we sure that our people have the incentive to execute the designated activities? Are some important things not getting done because people perceive it is not in their interest to
spend time on them?” An example may illustrate the point. Many firms (or practices) in­ clude as part of their competitive strategy the goal of marketing to existing clients. Yet
in these same firms partners will often report that the rewards (financial or cultural) are far greater for bringing in a new client than for bringing in an equivalent amount of
revenue from an existing client. Similarly, firms may preach the benefits of increasing leverage, yet continue to evaluate partners primarily on their personal billability rather
than on the volume of business they are responsible for. Examples of this “folly of asking for X while rewarding Y” abound among professional firms. Accordingly, firm management
should examine whether they have provided the best “context” for individual partners and practices to compete successfully, today and in the future. They must question whether the
right incentives and rewards are in place. It is only with some exaggeration that one can assert: “Tell me how you measure and reward partners, and I’ll tell you what your strategy
is, because I’ll be able to tell you what choices the partners will make in running their practices.” In executing its strategy responsibility, the firm’s management should review
