for his opinion and instructions. Ninety-nine percent of the time, he tells me to do what I was going to do anyway. But it makes him feel good to be consulted, and he is taking
direct responsibility for specific expendi­ tures and time—consuming activities. He is never surprised by what I got up to on his behalf, and he is constantly informed as to what
I’m doing for him. If I don’t have a decision for him to make, I call him anyway just to let him know what the status is. And every conversa­ tion ends with two sentences: I ask if
there’s anything else he wants me to do, and I tell him when I’ll next call him.” This may not be an appropriate strategy in all cases: Some clients may interpret constant
telephone calls as harassment rather than good service. But it is the preferences of the client, not of the professional, that should deter­ mine the manner in which the
professional behaves. The professional must discover each client’s style preferences and work to communi­ cate the appropriate attitude. The individual quoted above is con­ cerned
that he be perceived as responsive: His telephone calls are but a way to symbolize that. Steven Brill, publisher of The American Law yer, tells how pleas­ antly surprised he was on
receiving a letter acknowledging payment of 76 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm a legal bill and thanking him for his business: an attitude conveyed through a simple,
trivial action. The business world is filled with cre­ ative examples of this. For example, the hotel room that places a pa­ per strip across the toilet bowl to symbolize that the
bathroom has been sanitized— a reassuring touch. Another example: The car-repair shop that hands back the burned-out part that was replaced. Useless, but comforting to know that
the part was indeed in need of replace­ ment. Or consider the financial services company that sends a client a clipping from some obscure financial journal about his or her busi­
ness: The clipping may or may not be useful, but the gesture tells the client that the company cares. Such trivial actions create the experi­ ence of client satisfaction. Examples
in the professional service sector can be found: The firm that consistently follows up client meetings with brief memoranda summarizing the discussion and points agreed to, with a
request to the client to call if any misinterpretation has taken place. The firm that routinely explains in advance the format of its complex bills so that the client knows what to
expect when it arrives. The firm that ensures that all referrals from clients are followed up with a thank-you note, whether or not any new business resulted. The firm that makes
the effort to find out the client’s real deadlines, and works hard to meet them. The firm that dem onstrates its trustworthiness by advising cli­ ents on how to avoid fees by doing
some things themselves, or that demonstrates its integrity, either by admitting areas of weakness and recommending other professionals or by refusing work when it knows it is too
busy. Such actions are not matters to be dealt with only by systems and procedures, although these can help. Fundamentally, they are the result of an appropriate firmwide attitude
toward clients— an attitude that must be created by the senior professionals of the firm through exemplary personal behavior and role modeling. Many professional service firms have
procedures and mechanisms to assure the quality of the work they produce: review committees, senior-partner oversight, documentation of working papers. How­ ever, relatively few
have given much attention to improving the qual­ ity of service. Many firms seek to avoid the increasing price-sensitivity of clients by trumpeting the eternal battle cry of the
professional: “We must compete on the superior quality of our work, not on price.” An entirely proper sentiment, but one that can easily be misunderstood and misdirected. Improving
the quality of work can be costly and hard to demonstrate. Improving the quality of service can be as cheap Quality W o r k D o e s n ’t M e a n Q u a l i t y S e r v i c e 77 as
instilling more responsive attitudes in professional staff, and it tends to be infinitely more visible to clients. In a service business, and particularly in the professions, the
words of the old song remain true: “It ain’t what you do, it’s the way that you do it: That’s what gets results.” CHAPTER 8 A SERVICE QUALITY PROGRAM The importance of client
service is well understood by most profes­ sionals and most professional firms. Most, if not all, firms acknowl­ edge the critical distinction between technical quality (how good
is the work?) and service quality (what kind of experience does the client have with the firm?). Similarly, virtually all firms acknowledge the importance of service quality in
determining client satisfaction. They have preached it, internally and externally, for years. It is contained in most firms’ mission statements and strategy documents. Yet
consistent, outstanding performance in this area is scarce. In a large-scale study I supervised for a major international professional service firm, corporate purchasers of a broad
range of professional services (including audit, actuarial, consulting, legal, and marketing communications services) were asked, among other things, to rate their experience with
professional firms on two key dimensions. First, we asked them to evaluate their satisfaction with the technical quality of the work done for them. Satisfaction levels were consis­
tently high. Clients, it seems, do not have too much difficulty in find­ ing technically competent people to help them. We then asked about the clients’ level of satisfaction with
the way they were dealt with by the professionals involved during the course 79 80 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm of the engagement, transaction, matter, or deal.
Satisfaction levels were low, and complaints numerous. That this should not be surprising can be tested against your own experience as a purchaser of professional services. Think
back to your own use of outside professionals (you’ve probably used one or more of the following professionals recently: a lawyer, a doctor, an accoun­ tant, an actuary, a
consultant, an interior designer, a public relations counselor). Did the professionals you dealt with: • Make it their business to understand what was special and unique about you
and your company? • Listen carefully to what you had to say and what you wanted, rather than substitute their own judgment for yours on what needed to be done and how it should be
done? • Give good explanations of what they were doing and why? • Let you know in advance what they were going to do? • Help you understand what was going on and help you reach
your own conclusion, rather than tell you their conclusion? • Keep you sufficiently informed on progress? • Document their work activities well? • Avoid confusing jargon? • Make
sure they were accessible and available when you needed them? • Notify you promptly of changes in scope, and seek your ap­ proval? • Keep their promises on deadlines? • Involve you
at major points in the engagement? • Make you feel as if you were important to them? • Show an interest in you beyond the specifics of their tasks? • Make an attempt to be helpful
to you beyond the specifics of their project? My own experiences (and those of the clients I have surveyed) suggest that it is extraordinarily rare to find a professional who is
consistently good at these things, and even rarer to find a whole firm that can be relied upon to act in this fashion. Few of us have trouble citing real examples, not caricatures,
of adverse behaviors that we encounter routinely in our dealings with the other professionals we use. We have no problem reporting what we hate about having to deal with “those
guys.” A Service Quality Program 81 As it turns out, accountants, consultants, and public relations peo­ ple complain about the same things when talking about lawyers or actuaries
that lawyers and actuaries complain about when referring to accountants, consultants, and public relations people. What “we” hate about having to deal with “those guys” is a very
good predictor of what our clients hate about having to deal with us. What this reveals is that what clients seek from their professionals has nothing to do with “being nice to the
client,” “shmoozing,” “stroking,” or “hand holding” . Rather, what we are talking about is finding ways to make client assignments substantively m ore valuable to clients by
changing the way professionals interact with their clients during the project. Client service is not a “frill”: How a professional deals with us is an essential determinant of our
judgment of value received. Unfortunately, it has been my experience in discussing this topic with thousands of professionals that large numbers of them believe that client service
is about “shmoozing,” “stroking,” and “hand hold­ ing.” Many professionals appear to associate client service with ac­ tivities such as having lunch, taking the client to cultural
or sports events, and so on. With such a view, it is not surprising that client service is held in low esteem by many professionals, and results in a low level of performance in
this area. The importance of good relationship management (in the sense in­ tended here) is borne out by another question in the study referred to above, in which we asked
corporate executives about referrals. Only 10 percent of all referrals were found to be cases where technical considerations or “results” were given as the reason for the referral.
Fully 90 percent of all the reasons given for referrals were related to the relationship issues discussed above. Most clients say that if they could find a provider who reliably
behaved in the ways described above, they would be a. More likely to return to that provider b. More willing to refer that provider c. Less fee-sensitive about that provider’s
services There is a paradox here. Service quality is widely acknowledged to be important, yet the typical firm does not perform well in this area. What is the explanation? 82 M
anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm The answer is that few firms have any systematic program for en­ suring and improving the experience the client has with the firm. In most
firms, client service is a matter for speeches at annual meetings, and the occasional training program. It cannot be stressed enough that achieving excellence in client ser­ vice
is not an “educational” issue (i.e., enlightening staff and training them). Almost all client service training programs, taken by them­ selves, fail to be implemented in the press
of daily business. Most firm personnel, if asked, could easily describe most of the activities that would represent good service. We must ask why they don’t already do these
things. Look again at the list of behaviors described above. Do any of those items take great skill to perform? Are any of them intellectually chal­ lenging? I think the answer is
no. But there are so many items! The bad news about achieving excel­ lence in client service is that it is made up of hundreds of little, trivial actions, not a few grand gestures.
It means rethinking every commu­ nication and interaction with clients, no matter how mundane. It takes an attention to detail, an attitude, that is essential if individuals are to
find the self-discipline to handle all of their client-contact activities with empathy. HOW TO MAKE IT HAPPEN What many firms have yet to learn is that the issue of improving
client service is overwhelmingly a managerial one. They, and their profes­ sionals, know what good service is, but how do they make it happen ? What does management have to do to
provide the context within which firm personnel will actually execute and implement what they already know they should do? Achieving excellence in client service is similar to
people’s desire to give up smoking and lose weight. They know and want the goal, they believe it is worth the effort, they know what to do— but, like all human beings, they are
very bad at incurring short-term discom­ fort to achieve a long-term goal. People are terrific at postponing di­ ets. Do they feel guilty that they’re not doing what they know they
should? You betcha! Are they likely to change? Not unless they’re forced to! A Service Quality Program 83 Sticking to a diet requires a well-thought-out program, a system. It
doesn’t work to preach the benefits: I already accept the goal. It doesn’t work to just give me more tips: I already know what works. What I need is a program to help me find the
discipline that I seem unable to find in myself. Guilt, alone, I have learned, doesn’t change people. But the right degree of embarrassment does. Tell me I have to show up at a
weight clinic every week in front of the same people and have my weight announced to all and sundry, and I might find a little more selfdiscipline during the week. If firms are to
achieve excellence in client service quality, a system must be designed— an inescapable, mandatory diet. Not one that the firm leaves to each individual’s best intentions. That’s
like saying “Make your New Year’s resolution and we’ll get you on the scales on December 31. See you then!” That’s not going to work. What is required is a monitoring system that,
like a diet, is often uncomfortable, will require disciplined changes in daily life-style, and that will force practitioners to live up to goals they have already agreed to. A full
program to differentiate the firm through client service re­ quires action on five fronts (in this order): 1. Measurements 2. Management 3. Tips and tools 4. Training 5. Rewards We
shall discuss each element of the program in turn. M EA SU R ES As a way of measuring client satisfaction, many firms have, particu­ larly in recent years, instituted various means
of obtaining feedback from clients, including such approaches as engagement team debrief­ ings, occasional managing partner visits, and so on. (See Chapter 6, Listening to
Clients.) However, sensible as these are, I have learned that they are no substitute for a mailed questionnaire to each and every client at the end of every single client project.
84 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm A mailed questionnaire, such as that shown in Figure 8 -1 , when used as a supplement (not a substitute) for other means of obtaining
feedback, has the virtue that it is systematic. Its importance is that it not only obtains the feedback but, more importantly, it introduces an accountability for client
satisfaction into the firm’s management sys­ tems. By measuring client satisfaction on every assignment, and doing so in a way that can be monitored, it commits the members of the
firm to inescapable implementation of good service. The test of a feedback system is thus not whether or not it measures successfully, but whether or not it induces changes in
behavior. There is a contrast between feedback as a market research tool and feedback as a management tool. For the former, periodic, selective face-to-face methods are adequate.
For the latter, a program of mandatory ques­ tionnaires is necessary. Face-to-face feedback devices (engagement team debriefings, senior partner visits, third party market
research, etc.) may generate better information and may be more welcomed by the client, but they do not provide a “conscience” mechanism that forces all firm members to feel
personally accountable at all times for executing those actions that lead to client satisfaction. Many partners, on meeting this system for the first time, say “If we ask about
these things, don’t we run the risk that we’ll make the client aware of something he’s unhappy with that he wouldn’t have both­ ered about if we hadn’t asked?” (This question comes
up frequently.) It should be reasonably clear that it is in the firm’s interest for the client to surface concerns if he or she has them. Only if the client tells the firm where he
or she is less than completely satisfied can we re­ spond. Suppose the client is unhappy about something minor, and further suppose it’s due to a misunderstanding. Are we ahead of
the game or behind the game if we get him or her to tell the firm about it? Obviously, we’re ahead! The system must be designed to make it easy for the client to surface concerns—
hence the virtues of a detailed specific questionnaire and also the virtue of the mailed questionnaire. (Evidence shows over­ whelmingly that more candid comments are made in
mailed question­ naires than in face-to-face debriefings.) The act of asking can never hurt the firm—except if we fail to re­ spond and deal with the client’s concern. Thus the
whole program FIGURE 8 -1 CLIENT FEEDBACK QUESTIONNAIRE For each of the following statements about our firm, please indicate whether you: Strongly disagree (1); somewhat disagree
(2); neither agree nor disagree (3); somewhat agree (4); strongly agree (5) You are thorough in your approach to your work NA 1 2 3 4 5 You show creativity in your proposed
solutions NA 1 2 3 4 5 You are helpful in redefining our view of our situation NA 1 2 3 4 5 You are helpful in diagnosing the causes of our problem areas NA 1 2 3 4 5 Your people
are accessible NA 1 2 3 4 5 You keep your promises on deadlines NA 1 2 3 4 5 You document your work activities well NA 1 2 3 4 5 Your communications are free of jargon NA 1 2 3 4 5
You offer fast turnaround when requested NA 1 2 3 4 5 You listen well to what we have to say NA 1 2 3 4 5 You relate well to our people NA 1 2 3 4 5 You keep me sufficiently
informed on progress NA 1 2 3 4 5 You let us know in advance what you’re going to do NA 1 2 3 4 5 You notify us promptly of changes in scope, and seek our approval NA 1 2 3 4 5 You
give good explanations of what you’ve done and why NA 1 2 3 4 5 (continued on next page) 86 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm FIGURE 8 - 1 (cont.) You don’t wait for me to
initiate everything: you anticipate NA 1 2 3 4 5 You don’t jump to conclusions too quickly NA 1 2 3 4 5 You involve us at major points in the engagement NA 1 2 3 4 5 You have a
good understanding of our business NA 1 2 3 4 5 You make it your business to understand our company NA 1 2 3 4 5 You are up to date on what’s going on in our world NA 1 2 3 4 5 You
make us feel as if we’re important to you NA 1 2 3 4 5 You are an easy firm to do business with NA 1 2 3 4 5 You deal with problems in our relationship openly and quickly NA 1 2 3
4 5 You keep us informed on technical issues affecting our business NA 1 2 3 4 5 You show an interest in us beyond the specifics of your tasks NA 1 2 3 4 5 You have been helpful to
me beyond the specifics of your projects NA 1 2 3 4 5 You have made our people more effective at what they do NA 1 2 3 4 5 My own understanding of your area has improved from
working with you NA 1 2 3 4 5 Overall, I would rate your service very highly NA 1 2 3 4 5 Thank you for your assistance. Please feel free to add any additional comments. A Service
Quality Program 87 turns on this issue: Are we or are we not prepared to meet and be ac­ countable for these standards? If we are, we should ask. If we are not, then clearly we
should not even consider such a feedback system. It should also be noted that the act of asking can be a good service action in its own right (“Hey, these guys care” ), but the act
of asking by itself does not necessarily produce higher client satisfaction— it merely cre­ ates a productive “let’s wait and see” attitude in the client’s mind. What happens after
the feedback is provided is the test of the system. M A N A G EM EN T’S ROLE Asking for client feedback and not having the procedures to deal sys­ tematically with the responses is
obviously a disaster. Consequently, there should be no such thing as a stand-alone client feedback pro­ gram. Either it is an integral part of a total quality program, or it
shouldn’t be done at all. Since the point of the system is to create a conscience mechanism, how the responses are dealt with when they are returned is as critical as asking for
the feedback. This should be obvious, but I’ve seen more than one example of a poorly designed follow-through system. Obviously, each partner and member of the engagement team re­
ceives a copy of their client’s response. The managing partner should examine each response and discuss the individual replies with the en­ gagement partner (or engagement team).
This is time consuming, but is there a higher-value use of a managing partner’s time? The partners should agree on which of the following responses the client should receive: a. A
letter saying thank you for your flattering comments b. A visit from the engagement partner to clarify areas where the client is less than fully satisfied c. A visit from the
managing partner More follow-up is needed to make the system work. The responses should be tabulated and, every six or twelve months, the managing partner should discuss the
aggregate results with all the partners (and other staff), explicitly comparing group averages between different parts of the practice. This is necessary because of the need to
implement an accountabil­ ity system that will have a high probability of creating changes in 88 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm behavior. To create the “right” degree of
embarrassment, it is neces­ sary to discuss publicly how different practices are doing, how differ­ ent offices are doing, how responses vary between different types of
engagements. The results for an individual partner should not be discussed in public— that’s too much embarrassment— but group averages work fine. Individual partners must get
“embarrassed” in private. Once the group averages are public, the head of the practice area visits the in­ dividual partner in his or her office and closes the door, saying “Only
you and I know these figures, but here’s how your personal aggregate scores (i.e., all clients you’re responsible for) compare to our group’s average. How can we help?”
Administering the Questionnaire Who should send out the questionnaire? My experience with these systems (over forty firms worldwide with a variety of professions) suggests the
following procedure. After the engagement partner has forewarned the client (in person) that it is coming, and explained why the firm is doing it, the questionnaire should be sent
out over the firm name (with the firm or office managing partner’s name attached), not the name of the individual engagement partner. This signals to the client the firm's
commitment to quality, in addition to the individual partner’s. For similar reasons, the return address should be to the firm—either the office or firm managing partner. Experience
shows that this pro­ motes candor, reinforces the firm’s image and, perhaps most impor­ tantly, introduces a conscience mechanism into the loop, so that each client service team
realizes that their performance in this area will be monitored. Experience shows that response rates to questionnaires of this kind are very high (75 percent plus, plus). If a
client does not respond, a letter asking again for the feedback, reminding the client of the firm’s commitment, is appropriate. If there is still no response, well, that’s the
client’s privilege. Experience also shows overwhelmingly that clients appreciate the opportunity to give feedback and respond positively to the system. Adverse reactions (“This is
tacky, like a hotel chain” ) do occur but at a rate of less than 1 percent. A Service Quality Program 89 Who in the client organization should get the questionnaire? There is no
reason not to send out multiple questionnaires. Indeed, most firms find that there is rarely one client on an engagement. Accord­ ingly, the rule should be that at least one must
go out, but after that, the engagement partner and managing partner (or practice leader) will decide how many questionnaires are appropriate for each engage­ ment. There is little,
if any, downside to asking multiple people, but it cannot be solely the engagement partner’s decision— bitter experience has shown that if allowed to, some people will game the
system and only send it to friendly client personnel and avoid unfriendly client executives, which defeats the point of the system. It sounds paternal, but this is an
accountability system—given a chance, we’ll all find ways to cheat on our diets unless we’ll be embarrassed if caught cheat­ ing. Questionnaire Design Some partners look at Figure
8-1 and say “That’s too much to ask, there are too many questions.” This is a cop-out. Experience world­ wide has shown that from the client’s point of view, a scaled ( 1 to 5)
questionnaire with twenty-five questions does not take too long to fill out, and the specificity of the questions both communicates a sincere desire to probe and allows the client
to express mild reservations in some areas while expressing high satisfaction in others. Some Cautions Some of my clients have designed the questionnaire so that the client
feedback system becomes an opportunity to sell more work. There is grave danger here. It is absolutely true that client feedback systems, if properly applied, do create additional
opportunities to sell. However, the feedback form must not be used simultaneously for selling. For the feedback system to work, either in the clients’ eyes as a sincere desire to
meet quality standards, or in partners’ eyes as a seri­ ous attempt to create excellence in service behavior, the quality feed­ back and the selling tasks must be separated. A
quality questionnaire that asks “What else would you like to buy from the firm?” will be treated skeptically by clients and will divert 90 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F
irm partners’ emphasis away from the key task, which is to earn the next engagement by raising the value of this one. Selling is, of course, valu­ able, but it works most
effectively when it convincingly follow s a dem­ onstration of a commitment to service and feedback; it must not be a substitute for it. Many firms have learned that if the
enthusiasm of the professionals for this program is to be achieved, then management must be seen to be doing its part. For example, there is often a need for expenditure by the
firm to ensure that support systems are in place to sustain a client service effort. A common prime example is the need to spend money on telephones and receptionists to ensure
that the phone system is client friendly. These expenditures are m andatory to prove to firm staff that management is committing itself, not only them, to this strategy. T IP S AND
T O O L S Having discussed measures and management, we now turn to the third element of a service quality program: the development and dissemi­ nation of specific, concrete ideas,
to be shared among the profession­ als, for enhancing value to clients during their assignments. This can be done formally or informally. I will describe a more formal method, but
the goal is the same in either case: to document and share the best ideas available, so that each professional has a source of help in finding ways to enhance his or her value in
conduct­ ing the client project. A good idea that has had much success is to form a small team within each discipline (or service area). Their task is to develop a proprietary
client-service methodology: that is, to come up with value­ enhancing action ideas that are appropriate to the specific discipline. This methodology should include activities that
will ensure that the way the firm deals with clients during a client assignment is demon­ strably more valuable to the client than the competition’s approach. In essence, the firm
should be creating a differentiation in the market­ place: “We’re different because of the way we deal with you.” This can be initiated through a detailed exploration of every
stage of a client assignment, identifying every opportunity the firm has to A Service Quality Program 91 enhance value in the client’s experience. It should include, inter alia,
methods for making written communications (including reports) more useful to the client, ways to involve the client more in the pro­ cess, ways to make meetings more valuable to
the client, and devices for keeping client informed. In some firms where there is, more or less, a common pattern for many client assignments, the teams construct a flowchart of
the un­ folding of a client assignment, identifying each detailed step where the firm has the opportunity to influence the client’s experience with the firm. They examine the
flow-chart of client’s experience in order to identify all “moments of truth.” For each moment of truth, they try to figure out what should happen: what the methodology for
handling this stage of an engagement should be. Having identified each step, team members interview experienced firm personnel to get their best ideas on how to manage the client’s
experience (hot tips). They accumulate and disseminate the best prac­ tices of these top service providers, and integrate these client manage­ ment practices into written operating
methodologies. The team also generates ideas by reviewing the client feedback forms for common client concerns, and may interview clients as well as leading discussions in their
own departments. The end product of the team’s labors is often a workbook, contain­ ing both good ideas and a methodology for client service teams to plan their individual client
assignments. Examples of the typical hot tips are shown in Table 8-1. TRAINING In many firms, there may be a need for training programs in clientcontact skills. These should
include training in classic client situations such as “How do you tell a client he is wrong?” and “What do you do if the client doesn’t like your ideas?” Accumulated wisdom in the
firm on these and other client contact situations should be built into train­ ing programs so the firm disseminates its best expertise quickly. Training programs divide into
knowledge transfer (“here are the elements of good service” ) and skill building (“we’re going to give you practice at dealing with this client situation” ). The former can be de­
livered as soon as the methodology described above is developed. 92 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm T A BL E 8 - 1 Tactics to Enhance Client Value Dictate and transcribe
summary of all meetings and significant phone conversations and send copy to client same or next day. Involve client in process through: brainstorming sessions; give client tasks
to perform. Give client options and let client choose. Explain clearly and document what is going to happen; make sure process is understood in advance. If appropriate, develop
printed booklet laying this out. Make meetings more valuable: Establish specific agenda and goals prior to meeting Send info, reports in advance—save meeting time for discussion,
not presentation Find out attendees in advance, research them Always establish next steps for both sides Call afterwards to confirm that goals were met Make reports more valuable:
Get client to instruct the firm on format, presentation Provide summary so client can use it internally, without modification Have all reports read by nonproject person prior to
delivery to ensure readability, comprehension Provide all charts, tables, summaries on overheads for internal client use Write progress summaries in a fashion that client can use
internally without modification Help client use what is delivered: Assist client in dealing with others in client organization Empower client with reasoning steps Advise on
tactics/politics of how results should be shared inside client organization T A BLE 8 - 1 (cont.) Be accessible and available: Home phone numbers Anticipatory calling when we’re
going to be unavailable Ensure that secretaries know where we are and when we’ll be back Ensure that secretaries know names of all clients; and names of all team members on the
account Work at getting clients comfortable with “junior” personnel, so they can be available when we’re not Skill-building programs will require the identification of classic cli­
ent situations, the development of role-play scripts, and the design of materials. In some firms, these include a critique of current programs on “how to handle a meeting,”
“presentation skills,” and the like (assuming the firm has these). It should be stressed that training in face-to-face client skills is a key area: These tend to be taken for
granted, but can be taught—it’s not just a matter of “well, this is my personality and style and I can’t change it.” Skill-building topics included in some firms’ programs in­
clude: • Learning to persuade, not assert • Helping clients understand what you’re doing and saying and why • Empowering clients with reasons, not just conclusions • Running
meetings in ways that add more value to clients • Reporting to clients in ways they find more valuable • Coaching clients to use what we deliver • Facilitating client’s ability to
act on what we deliver REW A RD S The final step in a full-service quality program is ensuring that those who excel in this area (as revealed by client satisfaction scores) are
rewarded, and those who do not are penalized in some way. Without this step people quickly develop the attitude that: “This service quality stuff is all very well, but it’s not
what the firm really values.” 94 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm It would clearly be a mistake to use the client satisfaction scores in the partner compensation scheme in
the first year of keeping score— first everyone has to be given a chance to shape up, everyone has to get comfortable that the data is real and valid. However, this must hap­ pen
sooner or later. It is inevitable that once scorekeeping has begun, the results will influence compensation— and so they should. Is there anything more "professional” to reward
partners for than client sat­ isfaction? GETTING STARTED ON A FEEDBACK PROGRAM For any firm without a client feedback program, the first step must be a controlled pilot program.
This is necessary to test some of the claims made in this chapter, such as: • Clients are very willing to participate in such a program, and, if asked, will complete a
questionnaire. • You find out things that trouble your clients that you didn’t know about, and hence it’s worth asking. • Clients do care about most of the items on the
questionnaire in Figure 8-1. • They’ll tell you which questions you should include, i.e., which aspects of client service they care about. All these propositions (indeed most of
this chapter) can be tested for your firm by doing a pilot study (perhaps of one subdiscipline). Once you have decided to launch a service quality program, the next step is to
invite comments and suggestions from partners on what the questions should be, how they should be phrased, and so on. You should choose a date six months hence (or so) for the
first questionnaires to go out, thereby giving everyone a fair chance to get ready and know in advance what they’re going to be held accountable for. And right at the beginning,
you should determine when the first partners’ meeting will be held to review the first round of results and the first step of group aggregates. OTHER USES FOR FEEDBACK
QUESTIONNAIRES Once the firm has established the principle of using client feedback questionnaires, it will soon be discovered that there is no need to wait for the end of the
engagement to share the feedback form with A Service Quality Program 95 the clients. Indeed there is great power in using it at the following times: Mid-engagement, to track “how
well we’re doing” At the beginning of the engagement, to find out which factors this client really cares about and wants the firm to focus on In proposals, to prove, through the
existence of the system, that we are different from our competitors CONCLUSION For those who consider all of this to be a dramatic change and stren­ uous effort, I invite you to
examine Figure 8-1 one more time, asking yourself the following questions: a. When you are the client, do you care about these issues? b. What is your experience in finding
providers who excel at this behavior? c. Do any of these questions represent an “unreasonable” client expectation—when you’re the client? d. How confident do you feel that your
firm would outperform the competition on these questions? e. How valuable would it be if your firm were to earn top scores on this stuff consistently? f. Can you think of another
way to ensure consistent execution of these things? Yes, the diet is tough. But the health it produces will ensure a long and prosperous professional life. CHAPTER 9 MARKETING TO
EXISTING CLIENTS Most professional firms say that their existing clients represent the most probable (and often the most profitable) source of new business. However, when one
examines their behavior, one finds that while they have well-established and organized programs for “new client” business development, there is little, if any, organized effort to
obtain new business from existing clients. Similarly, most firms’ expenditures for business-getting (either out-of-pocket expenses or in allocation of people’s time), are
overwhelmingly spent trying to get new clients, with only a small fraction of the total devoted to winning new busi­ ness from existing clients. Simply put, firms say they believe
one thing, but appear to be doing another. What’s going on here? WHY EXISTING CLIENTS ARE GOOD PROSPECTS The best place to begin our exploration of this apparent paradox is to
examine the reasons why existing clients are said to represent the “best” source of new business. The possible explanations are many. First and foremost, it is most firms’
experience that time spent mar­ keting to existing clients is more likely to result in new business: Ex­ isting clients represent higher-probability prospects. This is so because
the ability to win the client’s trust and confidence 97 98 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm is a dominant influence in the sales process of professional services. Often,
this single criterion is the deciding factor in competitive situa­ tions. Accordingly, where the firm is already working for the client, it has a head start on the single most
important purchasing influence, resulting in a higher probability of success. Other aspects of the sales process, such as discovering the real (often unstated) client concerns and
needs are far easier to do in an existing client setting. A third factor which increases the probability of winning new business in ex­ isting client situations is the basic fact
that such new-business oppor­ tunities are usually noncompetitive: If the firm uncovers a new need in the course of its current work, it can often win permission to proceed with
the new work without going through a competitive proposal process. A second attraction in targeting existing clients is that, in most situations, marketing costs to win a given
volume of new business are lower. The firm does not have to spend as much (unbilled) time re­ searching the client and its industry, since this will already have been done to win
the existing account. There will be less need to conduct a wide variety of activities that are a major part of the new prospect sales process: awareness building, qualifying
activities, comfort build­ ing or investigatory interviews, competitive proposals and presenta­ tions, and so on. A third advantage in targeting existing clients is that
“follow-on” engagements from existing clients often are more profitable than first­ time engagements from new clients. There is less risk of “write-offs” of time spent getting up
to speed on the client or the client’s industry. There is less risk of false starts or misspecification of the project di­ mensions, which also lead to written-off time. Being
