caused many collaborative efforts to die. For example, audit partners constantly complain that “you consultants keep asking me to introduce you to my clients, but you are never
able to win me an audit— I have to do that myself. So if you can’t help me, why should I make the effort?” The same is heard internationally: Large-country practices get “tired” of
helping small-country practices of their own firm unless they see an opportunity to receive direct ben­ efit in return. To overcome this, it is necessary to introduce another
principle: To get a favor you must first give a favor. Consultants who want an audit partner to help them should first find a way to be helpful (free of charge or immediate
obligation) to the audit partner whose client they are targeting. Giving favors first doesn’t always work. People who do this may get “burned” a few times by those who do not
return favors. But in the long run they will get more cooperation (and the benefits of cooperation) than those who refuse to be the first mover. Once established, collaborative
activity can be infectious—if coop­ eration is indeed worthwhile, those doing it will clearly be seen to be benefiting. However, it must get started somewhere, in a visible way, to
“lure” others into trusting behavior. Accordingly, professional firm managers should look for opportunities to create small-scale but highly visible examples of collaborative
behavior, so that the partners can overcome their fear, temptation, and skepticism and give cooper­ ation a real try. In Table 3 0 - 1 , I have listed many of the “network
collaboration” tactics that large multisite professional firms consider in attempting to induce more cooperation in their networks. Based both on my direct observation of these
tactics at work, and on the reasoning given above, I have arranged these tactics in order of what I judge to be their effec­ tiveness. Because they both involve people from
different groups working together on the same client project, the two best tactics for nurturing 340 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm TABLE 3 0 -1 Tactics to Achieve
Network Benefits and Collaboration (In approximate order of effectiveness) Cross-staffing Rotation of staff Generating integrated client work Reorganization around people with whom
we want to collaborate more Centralization of selected network decisions Firm-level funding of collaborative activities (“free” resources) System of cross-boundary “client
relationship partners” Appointment of practice coordinators Rewards for collaboration in compensation system Joint training Joint committees Transfer payments and other accounting
devices Information sharing Data bases to facilitate access to expertise Education/awareness of resources available future collaboration are cross-staffing of engagements (i.e.,
profes­ sionals from different profit centers or departments on the same client project) and semipermanent rotation of staff (i.e., assignment of in­ dividuals in one group to work
for a period of time such as a year in some other group). In firms committed to breeding collaboration, these tactics are used even where the specific client project does not
require the cross­ staffing. For example, a firm may assign a consulting person to be part of an audit team, performing audit work, even though that person will be less productive
on the audit engagement. This “investment” is made in the belief that future collaboration between that consultant and the audit personnel he or she worked with will amply repay
the loss of efficiency in doing today’s assignment. The “semipermanent” Creating the Collaborative Firm 341 assignment of personnel from one group (e.g., one geographic loca­ tion)
to another follows the same logic. A related, and powerful, tactic is to use the firm’s practice develop­ ment efforts to generate the type of client project that truly requires
multiple disciplines (or multiple locations) on the same project. It is important to note that this is not simple “cross-selling” where differ­ ent groups do different projects for
the same client. That approach does not give people from the different groups common work expe­ riences; and thus fails to provide the opportunity for them to get to know each
other and hence trust each other. Instead of “cross-selling” distinct projects, the goal is to sell projects that simultaneously require an integrated staffing. (This approach also
has the not insignificant benefit of being easier to sell—the client has a clear reason to want to use staff from the same firm. In a pure cross-sell, with no overlap of work
teams, it is hard for the client to see what extra value is obtained from buying from one firm.) Obviously, the tactics of cross-staffing, rotation, and selling inte­ grated
projects are both slow and costly, and for that reason are often avoided. But they remain the most effective tools for laying the groundwork for future collaboration. Many firms
have learned that, if the groundwork is not laid, then the other tactics described below lose their efficacy. There are no “shortcuts” to creating collaboration: Firms must make
the investment if they wish to receive the benefits. Next on my list is reorganization. Many firms have found that the most effective way to get individuals to cooperate is to put
them in the same profit center. For example, one major law firm decided to real­ locate its staff so that all those practitioners serving the same industry were in the same group,
regardless of their formal discipline (corpo­ rate law, tax, creditor’s rights, etc.). Now, serving that industry did not require that the corporate “department” (or individuals
within it) needed to do or receive favors for the tax “department”: They were in the same group, working towards the same goal. A similar trend to reorganizing into
(multidisciplinary) industry groups is evident in consulting firms and, increasingly, accounting firms. In the same spirit of creating small-scale “forced” interpersonal dealings
that lead to future voluntary cooperation, some firms create firmwide budgets which allow them to provide “free” resources to the individual groups (e.g., access to experts) that
encourage them to draw upon firmwide resources. Alternatively, these funds are used to 342 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm manage firm-level investments in R& D, market
research, product de­ velopment, and so on. These approaches, which have proven to be very effective, create collaboration where none existed before because they take the decision
on whether to cooperate or not out of the hands of the individuals involved. Trust and confidence that favors will be reciprocated are no longer required. Instead, a single
firmwide body makes the decision. Some firms have experimented with creating greater collaboration by appointing cross-boundary (i.e., inter-profit-center) organizational positions
such as “worldwide account managers” or “nationwide in­ dustry leaders.” The success of these positions is varied. My experi­ ence suggests that the key to making this tactic work
is (not surprisingly) money. If the person fulfilling this role has funds to spend (on market research, proposal support, methodology development, etc.), then he or she can be a
source of help to individual offices. Accordingly, this person can collect IOUs for favors done, and thereby ask for favors to help another office, as well as ask for cooperation
with his or her own firmwide agenda. (See Chapter 31, Coordinating Industry Specialty Groups.) Some organizations have attempted to induce cooperation by re­ serving some firm wide
funds to be allocated (retrospectively) to those individuals (or groups) that have exhibited g o o d citizenship by coop­ erating in ways that do not necessarily show up in the
factors that normally drive compensation (or profit-allocation) decisions. These approaches can work, but in my experience, they tend to induce only the highly visible forms of
cooperation (special events) rather than the ongoing daily cooperation that is the essence of a true network. This tactic is generally a good idea, but is rarely sufficient as a
stand-alone device. Many notable firms have achieved success by making use of joint (cross-profit-center) training and committees. These achieve the col­ laboration result not
through the substance of the training or the agenda of the committee meeting, but through the simple fact that individuals are brought together in a work environment. While not as
powerful (in my estimation) as the earlier cited cross-staffing and ro­ tation tactics, the same principle is at work. While transfer payments (of various sorts, such as
commissions for work referred by one group to another) have a certain appeal, my observations suggest that they are “blunt instruments.” They are hard Creating the Collaborative
Firm 343 to fine-tune (either overrewarding or underrewarding) and hence as often fail as they succeed. For example, if referral fees (or commissions) are paid when one group
introduces a new client to another (internal) group, how does one decide what is sufficient effort to warrant the fee? Is the transfer price the same when a new client is handed
over “on a plate” as when a simple introduction is made, and the receiving practice still has to go through a full proposal effort to win the engagement? If not, where is the
demarcation line? It is on such basic issues that most transfer pricing schemes founder. Finally, we turn to what I call the “facilitators” of cooperation: data bases; information
sharing and cross-education of resources; products and skills available elsewhere in the network. I have learned that such tactics make a good last step (easing the implementation
of cooperation where it has been induced by other tactics), but a poor first step. As the discussion above has attempted to show, the problem of cooperation is not one of lack of
knowledge of the opportunities and benefits of collaboration; rather, it is a managerial problem of creating the environment in which people know their counterparts in other groups
so well that collaboration (the bet that a favor given will be returned) represents a fair wager. No one of the tactics presented here will alone solve the problem of collaboration
in a network. However, there are a sufficient number of tactics available to suggest that, properly addressed, the goal can be reached. But not quickly: Collaboration must be
nurtured— it cannot be force-fed. CHAPTER 31 COORDINATING INDUSTRY SPECIALTY GROUPS In the typical multisite professional service firm, the predominant or­ ganizing principle is
that of geography. The local office managing partners (OMPs) have dominant voices in the day-to-day affairs of the firm. It is they, rather than any “headquarters” group, who col­
lectively control the firm’s financial and human resources. They not only exert significant influence over the market direction of the local practices for which they are
responsible, but also control the main engines that drive the firm: the assignment, appraisal, compensation, and promotion of the professional staff. This emphasis on local office
initiative and independence is readily understandable. In spite of the growing significance of stan­ dardized, “packaged” services and products, most professional work remains a
highly customized, and customizing, activity with a significant need for individual initiative both in the winning of cli­ ents and the conduct of the work. It is usually necessary
to adapt the firm’s service offerings to the needs of the local marketplace, creat­ ing a requirement for extensively decentralized decision making. Lo­ cal resources and identity
are frequently as important competitively as national capabilities and image, and responsibility for the former falls naturally to the OMP. Looking internally, it is clear that the
critical functions of coaching, directing, appraisal and reward of professional staff all require a detailed understanding of the specific 345 346 M anaging the P rofessional S
ervice F irm individuals involved. Again, the local OMP is the person best situ­ ated to be in command of these critical levers. As competition in the professions intensifies,
however, firms in­ creasingly face the need to integrate their practices across office boundaries. They must strive to ensure that professionals working in the same functional or
industry specialties take a consistent ap­ proach to the marketplace and can draw upon the accumulated wis­ dom and experience of the firm in that practice area. Clients
increasingly select their professional service providers not only on the basis of local presence and functional expertise, but also on the extent to which the provider has
experience and special insight into the peculiar problems and needs of the client’s industry. Now the professional firm must coordinate its activities across office bound­ aries
not only as to functional specialty, but also its industry expe­ rience. Accordingly, one of the fastest growing titles in the professional service world is industry head, industry
coordinator, or some such phrase. The situation of these industry heads is not enviable. Typically, they bear significant responsibility for the firm’s aggregate practice in their
designated industry but possess little direct authority over the key resources of the firm (most importantly the people). My re­ search, which has involved extensive study of firms
in a wide variety of professions, suggests that successful implementation of industry programs remains one of the most problematic areas of management in the multisite professional
service firm. In part, I have found, this is because the full complexity of the industry specialization problem in the multisite firm is frequently underestimated. In this chapter,
I will explore these complexities, attempting to clarify the alternatives available for dealing with them, and make recommendations where my research has revealed examples of “good
practice.” Much of the discussion that follows applies not only to industry specialty programs, but also to any form of cross-office coordination of practice areas. Many of the
problems and solutions discussed here can also be applied to the departmentalized single-site firm that is attempting to coordinate its various industry activities across func­
tional departmental boundaries, as well as to the coordination prob­ lems of firms practicing in different countries. Coordinating Industry Specialty Groups 347 CLOSE CONTACT
BUILDS MORALE In theory, the potential benefits of cross-office industry coordination are many. It can bring increased synergy, leverage, productivity, and quality in both the
marketing of the firm’s services and their opera­ tional delivery. From the client’s perspective, close contact between professionals in different offices, working on similar
matters, should lead to a higher level of service, since the firm’s talents, skills, and expertise can be leveraged to be made available to a broader array of clients. The
competence of the professionals working in a given practice area is likely to be more rapidly advanced if lessons learned in one part of the firm are speedily disseminated
throughout all of the firm’s of­ fices. From a marketing perspective, close integration of a practice area across offices allows the firm to present a more consistent image in the
marketplace and ensure that its (usually decentralized) market­ ing activities are working in harmony. In addition to all of this, cross­ office coordination, by bringing together
professional staff from the firm’s various offices, can have a salutary effect on pride and morale. Given this array of potential benefits, why is successful practice area
integration so difficult to achieve? In part, it is the very breadth of the potential benefits sought that creates many of the problems. Con­ sider, for example, this brief extract
from the responsibilities of one industry head at a large consulting firm: The industry head shall develop and recommend, in consultation with the office heads, an overall strategy
for the firm’s practice in his indus­ try. He will be responsible for the evaluation and monitoring of the market and competition in the designated industry, and the develop­ ment
and dissemination of practice aids and other marketing tools to be used throughout the firm. He will assist in the identification of key new client opportunities and coordinate the
development of proposal and engagement teams drawn from across the firm to enhance the firm’s chance of success in key engagements. He shall be responsible for the development of
new products and services for his industry and ensure their adoption throughout the firm. He will identify and recruit per­ sonnel within the offices to work in his industry, and
shall oversee the professional development of such people, including such training pro­ grams as may be deemed appropriate. He is also responsible for ensur- 348 M anaging th e P
rofessional S ervice F irm ing that all work performed in this industry conforms to the firm’s standards of work quality. Given this array of responsibilities, it is easy to see
why practice area management can be so problematic, both for the individual (or team) charged with these responsibilities and for the powerful OMPs, whose autonomy and authority
might be diminished if all of these functions are exercised by some other individual or group. To accomplish all of the tasks described above, an individual would need to acquire
signif­ icant power and influence within the firm. The problem is exacerbated by the fact that so much of practice area management involves nonbillable staff work, such as market
re­ search, the updating of brochures, or investing in new product devel­ opment. Unlike the industrial corporation, the professions have traditionally had lean organizations with
a minimum of staff roles. The road to glory has always been bringing in and working on client engagements. Accordingly, practice area management activities are resented not only as
threats to local autonomy, but also as an over­ head cost burden viewed with suspicion and constantly subject to challenge. FIVE W AYS TO SHARE KNOWLEDGE Because of these concerns,
many firms have attempted to achieve cross-office coordination without the formal designation of industry practice leaders or other organizational restructuring. Other, more basic,
coordination mechanisms are sought which are organization­ ally more acceptable, require less administrative overhead burden, and involve less suppression of local initiative.
Since they are used even where formal, organizational coordination programs have been implemented, it is worth discussing these methods briefly. Most basic are the
information-sharing approaches to coordina­ tion, such as “skills inventory data bases,” involving the collection and dissemination of information on the practice area specialties
of staff members, so that individuals needing assistance from others in the firm can speedily access those with the special expertise. As simple as this concept is, it can be a
troublesome system to implement and keep up to date, particularly in a large firm. In addition, the mere existence of the information is no guarantee that it will be used. Another
generic approach to industry coordination is the use of a Coordinating Industry Specialty Groups 349 “transfer pricing” system, whereby an office can buy the services of
professionals from other firm offices to facilitate sharing of expertise. Frequently, however, the transfer payment system used by profes­ sional firms has precisely the opposite
effect. For example, the system may successfully account for the billable time of a senior partner working “out-of-office,” but fail to recognize adequately the oppor­ tunity cost
of lost revenues to the home office because of the interrup­ tion of that partner’s business development activities. In consequence, local OMPs are reluctant to volunteer their
best people to engage in firmwide activities. (This problem is particularly acute within firms that place a great emphasis on profit center accounting and tie indi­ vidual rewards
closely to profit center results.) Accounting system barriers to practice area integration are complicated by the fact that it is frequently the same (usually small) offices that
are the main seekers of assistance, and the same (usually large) offices that repeatedly are the providers. A third basic approach to encouraging coordination is the use of the
compensation system to encourage cooperative behavior and re­ ward it appropriately. Many firms include “general contributions to the firm’s success” in their appraisal system of
both staff and partners, and attempt to base compensation awards, at least in part, on such contributions. However, the way in which performance appraisals are actually conducted
often creates disincentives for individuals to en­ gage in firmwide activities. As previously noted above, it is typically the local office OMP who has the major voice in the
appraisal and compensation of staff in his office. Accordingly, professionals are re­ luctant to engage in out-of-office work (i.e., working on engagements being run out of another
office), for fear that their contributions will not be adequately recognized and rewarded by their home office OMP. A fourth coordination approach is to make extensive use of “dis­
cussion” committees, bringing individuals with similar client bases together to discuss mutual interests, common opportunities and shared problems. While these are favored because
they do not involve binding decisions which might infringe upon local autonomy, they are frequently ineffective for the same reason, as well as often resented because of the
nonbillable time required. A final generic approach to industry coordination is that of goal sharing: ensuring that the overall strategy of the firm is well under­ 350 M anaging th
e P rofessional S ervice F irm stood and disseminated, so that local OMPs (and others) can inte­ grate their decisions into the strategy. This, too, is frequently ineffective. In
more than one firm I have heard the complaint: “We can try to tell the offices which industries we plan, as a firm, to focus upon, but we have no means of enforcing it. The offices
continue to pursue whatever opportunities seem to make sense in their own area.” WHERE ACTION MUST BE CENTRALIZED One of the common characteristics of all of the coordinative
mecha­ nisms described above is that they function on a decentralized basis: None of them requires a centralized entity which might threaten the autonomy of the offices. Most
firms, however, quickly come to rec­ ognize that in spite of the importance of local autonomy and initia­ tive, there are industry-specific activities that the local offices
cannot, should not, or will not do for themselves that justify more centralized approaches. At least six distinct justifications can be identified: First are those activities
which, if left to the offices, might involve duplication of tasks. (Collection of market intelligence about an industry might fall into this category.) Next are those activities
that are avoided by offices because their cost cannot be justified by the benefit that would accrue to a single office, even where the aggregate benefit to the whole firm might
warrant the investment. This is, of course, the economies of scale argument. (Among numerous other activities, industry training might fall within this category.) Third are those
activities that an of­ fice might avoid because of the high risk involved, such as investments in research and development of new products and services. A central­ ized industry
group, acting on behalf of the whole firm, should be expected to have a different risk profile than an individual office, and hence could get involved in more speculative
activities than those an office could justify. The fourth rationale for centralized (or at least centrally coordinated) industry activities is that a central industry practice
group should be able to afford a longer-term perspective on investments in the firm’s industry practice than a single office might, given the pressure for short-term results felt
by the typical local office. A central industry group could also be expected to be able to make better informed decisions as to the firm’s industry practice, because of its more
global access to information. For example, a local office might fail to recognize significant industry trends requiring a studied re­ Coordinating Industry Specialty Groups 351
sponse by the firm. Centralized industry activities might also be jus­ tified on the grounds of the needs for consistency in the approach to market, a need that might arise from
marketing, operational, or even (in the case of such services as audits) regulatory considerations. Fi­ nally, centralized industry decision making can be justified on the grounds
of strategy: the need to maximize the chances of industry penetration by targeting the same sorts of clients with the same sorts of services. As can be seen, the case for forming
firmwide industry groupings is strong. The duplication, scale, risk, long-term perspective, limited in­ formation, consistency, and strategy arguments might be used to jus­ tify a
wide range of centralized decision making. To accept these arguments fully and centralize too much might, however, risk trans­ forming the organization into an insensitive
bureaucratic operation, with too much suppression of the local office entrepreneuralism upon which most professional firms have been built. Accordingly, in most firms with
established industry specialty groups, the charter of these groups is to coordinate firmwide activities, not centralize them. The group is meant to function as an advisory
department, whose role is to assist and support line activities in the individual offices, rather than to direct them. They are meant to be facilitators, catalysts, and coor­
dinators, not czars. In consequence, those responsible for firmwide industry activities frequently have more responsibility than authority. THE INDUSTRY HEADS NEED CRUCIAL SKILLS A
senior officer of a large consulting firm once commented to me that the single most important determinant of the success of an industry practice area was the selection of the
individual to head the practice. This conclusion has been borne out repeatedly in the course of my research and consulting work with multisite professional service firms. The
reasons for this are not hard to detect: The role of practice head is an ambiguous one, requiring an individual with very special skills. In some firms, practice head
responsibilities fall either to the most prominent firm professional in the field— usually on the grounds that such a person, through his prominence, is best suited to help the
firm win new clients—or to the person who is most technically skilled in the area—on the grounds that this individual is best situated to act as a “thought leader” for the practice
area and keep the firm at the fore­ 352 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm front of innovative services and products to offer to clients. My re­ search has led me to the
conclusion that neither of these approaches, which can be jointly described as the superstar approach, is the best way to proceed. Instead, I have learned, firms should select as
industry practice heads those individuals who possess the greatest managerial and leadership skills, in particular, those adept at organizational pol­ itics. Because of limited
authority, a practice leader must win, through persuasion or inspiration, the cooperation of a large number of sep­ arate offices. He must persuade OMPs and others within the
offices to give attention to “his” industry or practice area in their business de­ velopment activities. Since he cannot conduct all of the practice area activities (such as market
research, development of training programs, etc.) himself, he must get the offices (and the individuals within them) to agree to spend their time on his program. Above all else,
the indus­ try head must get individuals to participate in his area for the benefit of the firm, rather than their parochial local office needs, in spite of powerful forces leading
individuals to focus on their immediate shortrun objectives. He must do all of this in competition with other in­ dustry or practice area heads, who are also trying to win
resources of money or professional time from the offices or the firm’s managing committee. To accomplish all this, an industry practice head requires good po­ litical skills: the
ability to recognize and listen to the needs (and val­ ues) of his constituency (the local offices), the ability to inspire that constituency to share his enthusiasm for his
agenda, and the ability to “horse trade” favors over time so that help and assistance is forth­ coming when it is needed. A practice leader in a multioffice environ­ ment cannot
use the authoritarian coercion, or reward power, to accomplish his goals. Rather, he must achieve influence by being in­ strumental in helping others achieve their goals. He must
be expert at finding or creating consensus, common ground, common purposes. A practice head must be an enthusiastic, articulate person, able to convey a vision to others in the
firm who are asked to contribute their services in the name of the common good. To be successful at winning cooperation from the offices, the practice leader must be able to com­
municate the importance of, and the opportunities within, his spe­ cialty. He must be good at selling new ideas internally as well as externally, and have the discretion to give up
on bad ideas when sup­ Coordinating Industry Specialty Groups 353 port for them is not forthcoming from the organization. He must be, in the words of one managing partner, a
“tactical but committed zealot.” In the various professional service firms with whom I have worked on this topic, I have made it my practice to ask individual industry heads for
the one activity they think they should spend more time on in order to increase their effectiveness. The responses contain frequent references to such phrases as: • “develop a
network” • “inspire enthusiasm” • “listen to OMPs’ needs” • “encourage participation by giving prompt and visible recogni­ tion to those who help” • “travel a lot to stay close to
the line” • “create and nourish teamwork” • “bring people together frequently to give a sense of belonging to something bigger than their local office” These pieces of advice are
all concerned with learning how to play organizational politics—to win the enthusiasm and commitment of others to the industry head’s agenda. KEEPING AN AFFORDABLE BALANCE One of
the dangers of appointing zealous industry practice heads is that they will continually push for more firm resources to be invested in their particular specialty. (They would not
be doing their job, if they did not.) The fears among line partners that centralized industry and other practice area activities might consume more resources than they merit is
based in reality. In part, this danger is due to the fact that the range of possible activities which could be justified under the name of industry coordination is large. Consider,
for example the extract from the industry head “charter” given earlier. In that brief description, we can identify at least eight distinct and potentially conflicting roles to be
played. Using analogies to equivalent functions in an industrial corpo­ ration, we can see that an industry group could function as a: • M arket research department, assembling
market data and per­ forming analyses to identify market opportunities • Strategic planning department, deciding how the firm’s resources in a given area can best be deployed 354 M
anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm • Sales prom otion department, developing brochures, articles, booklets, and other sales aids • Research and developm ent department,
working on enhancing the products and services offered by the firm • Quality control department, ensuring that work conforms to specifications • Training department, responsible
for developing both sales and operations skills • Sales management department, ensuring that the firm’s experts are made available to local offices to help win important engage­
ments • Production scheduling department, influencing the assignment of key people to important engagements Not all of these activities will be needed simultaneously in every in­
dustry practice area, but if the industry specialty is to be a real stra­ tegic thrust for the firm and not just a convenient marketing label, then most will be required at one
time in the life of the practice. Clearly, one of the most important elements in good industry practice area management is to establish a clear understanding of the particu­ lar
needs, at a given time, of a particular practice. In the early stages of the life cycle of a new industry practice, the emphasis may be upon market research and strategic planning.
In a mature practice, more attention (and funds) should probably be directed towards training and quality control. The allocation of investment funds among these various activities
and between the various industry specialties of the firm is one of the most significant strategic decisions a professional service firm can make. It is through the availability of
free resources in favored indus­ tries that the officers of the firm can influence centrally the strategic emphases of the local offices, while preserving local autonomy in de­
cision making. A well-funded industry program can provide a larger range of (free) services to the local offices, and hence influence the direction of their practices. A poorly
funded program can provide few services and will have a greater struggle persuading local offices to participate. Deciding on the level and allocation of industry program funding
is a difficult process, largely because of the problems in assessing the effectiveness of an industry program. A firm may be able to measure the growth in its volume of work in a
given industry, or even, if its cost Coordinating Industry Specialty Groups 355 accounting system is sufficiently sophisticated, the profits generated by an industry firm-wide. But
it will still remain difficult to relate this to the level of investment made in that industry’s practice area pro­ gram. As a result of these difficulties, industry programs must
be as­ sessed by a procedural, judgmental process rather than a numerical, measurement-oriented system. These assessments should not be made on a short-term basis. Ultimately,
industry program investments are strategic choices. The basic elements of an effective industry program management system would include the following. First, to avoid the
temptations of empire buildings and to preserve the manageability of what is, in any event, a difficult responsibility, industry practice areas should be de­ fined in relatively
narrow terms. Large programs should be broken up to make them more manageable. Funding for programs should be based on strategic emphasis, not on size. An industry practice area
that accounts for a large proportion of the firm’s fees does not neces­ sarily warrant a greater investment than a small but emerging area. As with any investment decision-making
process, a request for funds should be backed up with a detailed proposal from the industry head justifying the request. Such a proposal should clearly indicate what proportion of
the funds are to be spent on each of the distinct activities listed in the beginning of this section. As a natural tie-in, a retrospective review of accomplishments should be
scheduled for each program every few years. (I do not recommend that this be done every year. By their very nature, investments in industry practices are long­ term, risky
investments and should be appraised accordingly.) I con­ sider it good practice to impose a “sunset” policy on industry practices, whereby they have to justify their very existence
after a certain number of years. Without such a policy, there is the danger that inertia will become a major factor in the allocation of practice area investments. It is also
usually a wise policy to make the industry head position a nonpermanent assignment, so that new blood and fresh thinking can be brought into an industry practice every five to ten
years. (Considerations of burnout, in what we have seen is a dif­ ficult position, also affect this conclusion.) Finally, any industry program must be tested against the rigorous
criterion of acceptance by the line offices, whose appraisal of specific practice areas should be repeatedly and vigorously sought. OMPs and other line partners should be polled on
the merits of the various re­ 356 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm ports, products, and services produced by the practice area. They should be asked how helpful to them,
as an office, the existence and conduct of the practice area has been. Given line skepticism toward firmwide “overhead” activities, this test is a tough one. Yet it is crit­ ical.
An industry head in a multioffice professional service firm, as we have seen, has something to “sell,” and his customers are the line offices. Only by being adept at convincing his
clients of the value of his services can he accomplish his goals and achieve success. This is never an easy task, but if the firm is to develop and market industry expertise on a
coordinated multisite basis (an increasingly important require­ ment for success), it is always an important one. PART SEVEN LAST THOUGHTS CHAPTER 32 ASSET MANAGEMENT If there has
been one major theme in this book, it is that the key to ensuring any professional firm’s future is wise management of its two key assets : a. Its inventory of skills, talents,
knowledge, and ability b. The strength of its client relations and reputation Achieving a good income statement result is a necessary condition for professional firm success, but
it is far from a sufficient criterion. To have been judged a good year, a firm must not only achieve its volume and profit goals, but do so in a way that both builds new skills and
strengthens client relations. What would an asset management approach look like? What fol­ lows is a summary of some of the “new” management processes dis­ cussed in this book.
APPROACH 1: A LOOK-BACK MIX EVALUATION In Chapter 13, How’s Your Asset, we argued that client work can fall anywhere along a spectrum of “asset milking” to “asset building.”
Accordingly, wise management of the firm would require that a firm judge its success in part on the type of work it was generating. How­ ever, while most firms have volume goals
for their new business de359 360 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm velopment effort; few have a mechanism to judge the qualitative mix of business they bring in.
Accordingly, what do their people go out and sell to meet their new business targets? The familiar or the new? It is much easier to sell a project on something you are known for,
have references for, have methodologies for, and can be convincing that you can solve, than it is to sell an asset-building project for which you cannot provide five references,
one that will help you learn new skills or develop new methodologies. Not only is it easier, but it is more comfortable to do the familiar project: You feel more confident about
being able to solve the client’s problem. If there is a temptation for successful firms to exploit their reputa­ tion, rather than use their practice to build their balance sheet,
the problem is even greater for less established firms in the building stage. Hungry for work, they will (appropriately) be keen to accept what­ ever they can get. For them, the
