commitment to the firm’s success is a hallmark of the one-firm firm and is reinforced by a widely common practice of sharing firm profits more deeply within the organization than
is common at other firms. (The ratio between the highest paid and the lowest paid partner tends to be markedly less at one-firm firms than it is among their competi­ tors.) There
is also a suppression of status differentials between senior and junior members of the firm: an important activity if the firm is attempting to make everyone, junior and senior
alike, feel a part of the team. At Hewitt Associates, de-emphasizing status extends to the physical surroundings: everyone, from the newest hire to the oldest partner has the same
size office. The absence of status conflicts in one-firm firms is also noticeable across departments. In today’s world of professional megafirms com­ posed of departments
specializing in vastly different areas, one of the most significant dangers is the professionals in one area may come to view their area as somehow more elite, more exciting, more
profit­ able, or more important to the firm than another area. Their loyalty is to their department, or their local office, and not to the firm. Yet the The One-Firm Firm 317
success of the firm clearly depends upon doing well in all areas. On Wall Street, different psychological profiles of, and an antipathy be­ tween, say, traders and investment
bankers is notorious. In some law firms, corporate lawyers and litigators are often considered distinct breeds of people who view the world in different ways. In some ac­ counting
firms, mutual suspicion among audit, tax, and consulting partners is rampant. In consulting firms, frequently there are status conflicts between the “front-room” client handlers
and the “back­ room” technical experts. What strikes any visitor to a one-firm firm is the deeply held mutual respect across departmental, geographic, and functional boundaries.
Members of one-firm firms clearly like (and respect) their counter­ parts in other areas, which makes for the successful cross-boundary coordination that is increasingly essential
in today’s marketplace. Jonathan Cohen of Goldman Sachs notes that out-of-office socializa­ tion among Goldman professionals appears to take place more fre­ quently than it does at
other Wall Street firms. Retired Marvin Bower of McKinsey asserts that one of the elements in creating the one-firm culture is mutual trust, both horizontally and vertically. This
atmo­ sphere is created primarily by the behavior of the firm’s leadership, who must set the style for the firm. Unlike many other firms, leaders of one-firm firms work hard not to
be identified with or labeled as being closer to one group than another. Cross-boundary respect is also achieved at most one-firm firms by the common practice of rotating senior
professionals among the various offices and departments of the firm. GOVERNANCE: CONSENSUS-BUILDING STYLE How are one-firm firms governed? Are they democracies or autocra­ cies?
Without exception, one-firm firms are led (not managed) in a consensus-building style. All have (or have had) strong leaders who engage in extensive consultation before major
decisions are taken. It is important to note that all of these firms do indeed have leaders: They are not anarchic democracies, nor are they dictatorships. Whether one is reading
about Goldman’s two Johns (Weinberg and Whitehead), McKinsey’s (retired) Marvin Bower and Ron Daniels, Latham & Watkin’s Clinton Stevenson, or Hewitt’s Peter Friedes, it is clear
that one is learning about expert communicators who see their role as preserver of the “true religion.” Above all else, they are cheerleaders 318 M anaging the P rofessional S
ervice F irm who suppress their own egos in the name of the institutions they head. Such firms also have continuity in leadership: While many of them have electoral systems of
governance, leaders tend to stay in place for long periods of time. What is more, the firm’s culture outlasts the tenure of any given individual. Of course, the success of the
consensus-building approach to firm governance and the continuity of leadership at one-firm firms is not fortuitous. Since their whole philosophy (and, as I have tried to show,
their substantive managerial practice) is built upon cooperative team­ work, consensus is more readily achieved here than it is at other firms. The willingness to allow leaders the
freedom to make decisions on behalf of the firm (the absence of which has stymied many other “dem­ ocratic” firms) was “prewired” into the system long ago, since every­ one shares
the same values. The one-firm system is a system. CONCLUSION: POTENTIAL WEAKNESSES Clearly, the one-firm firm system is powerful. What are its weak­ nesses? The dangers of this
approach are reasonably obvious. Above all else, there is the danger of self-congratulatory complacency: A firm that has an integrated system that w orks may, if it is not careful,
become insensitive to shifts in its environment that demand changes in the system. The very commitment to “our firm’s way of doing things,” which is the one-firm firm’s strengths,
can also be its greatest weak­ ness. This is particularly true because of the chance of “inbreeding” that comes from “growing your own” professionals. To deal with this, there is a
final ingredient required in the formula: self-criticism. At McKinsey, Andersen, Goldman, and Hewitt, partners have as­ serted to me that “we have no harsher critics than
ourselves: We’re constantly looking for ways to improve what we do.” However, it must be acknowledged that, without the diversity common at other professional service firms,
one-firm firms with strong cultures run the danger of making even self-criticism a pro forma exercise. Another potential weakness of the one-firm firm culture is that it runs the
danger of being insufficiently entrepreneurial, at least in the short run. Other more individualistic firms, which promote and re­ ward opportunistic behavior by individuals and
separate profit cen­ ters, may be better at reorganizing and capitalizing on emerging trends early in their development. Although contrary examples can be cited, one-firm firms are
rarely “pioneers” : They try to be (and usually are) The One-Firm Firm 319 good at entering emerging markets as a late second or third. But be­ cause of the firmwide concentrated
attack they are able to effect, they are frequently successful at this. (The similarity to IBM in this regard, as is much of what has been discussed above, is readily noticeable.)
The one-firm approach is not the only way to run a professional service firm. However, it clearly is a very successful way to run a firm. The “team spirit” of the firms described
here is broadly admired by their competitors and is not easily copied. As I have attempted to show, the one-firm firm system is internally consistent: All of its prac­ tices, from
recruiting through compensation, performance appraisal, approaches to market, governance, control systems, and above all, culture and human resource strategy, make for a consistent
whole. CHAPTER 28 HUNTERS AND FARMERS In the previous chapter (The One-Firm Firm) I attempted to describe one (not the only) success model in running a professional firm. What I
hope became clear in this description is that making this “collabo­ rative” approach to practice work requires more than just an elusive “teamwork culture.” Rather, it is achieved
by making some definitive decisions on “hard” business systems such as compensation, hiring, training, organization, and choice of service lines. In recent years, I have come to
call these firms “Farmers” because, like such communities, these firms deliberate about what crops to sow, arrive at a (gutsy) decision, and then “bet the farm” on that crop. In
other words, one-firm firms are focused on the services they bring to market, and build their success by investing heavily in the chosen areas. They succeed through focus, muscle,
and concentrated efforts in a few hand-picked areas. The collaboration and teamwork that are the hallmark of the one-firm firms or Farmers derive not from an aesthetic preference
(for team spirit) but from the simple fact that since the firm has “bet the farm,” the success of the community de­ pends on whether the crop comes in (i.e., the firm has bet
successfully as to what the market wants). While some individuals may sow the seeds, others mend the fences, and yet others cook the meals, all must do their part to make the farm
succeed. What counts is not individual performance, but contribution to aggregate success. Teamwork comes 321 322 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm from truly “being in
this together.” There is no way for an individual to do well unless the organization as a whole succeeds. The reason for the Farming model’s success should be easy to see. If we
know what we are trying to bring to market, then it is easy to figure out what tools we need, what training to do, what kind of people to hire, how and where we should focus our
marketing. The fact that one-firm firms are known for their training, methodology develop­ ment, hiring, and focused marketing is no accident. The Farmer’s greatest virtue is also
its greatest weakness. As we have seen, most of the strengths of this approach derive from focus: the fact that large numbers of professionals do the same thing or take the same
approach to practice. Farmer firms enter new markets “big or not at all.” However, while focus is a business virtue, it is not the only one. Successful businesses can be, and have
been, built on virtues such as entrepreneuralism, opportunism, flexibility, diversity, and quick responsiveness to emerging new client needs. None of these particularly plays to
the Farmer’s strengths. Rather, they are virtues of what I term the “Hunter” system. Think of it this way: You have a firm of five partners, and you must make one of two choices.
The first choice is that you collectively de­ cide to practice the same specialty, in the same way, and develop joint marketing plans. On a firmwide basis you make collective
investments in the same methodologies and practice tools. Your firm will, if you succeed, become known for something very particular. Your other option is to diversify your risk.
The five of you choose different spe­ cialties, thereby being able to offer your market a range of services. You will have a harder time figuring out what methodologies to de­
velop, since each of you practices in a different area, but you will have willingly given up the benefits of focus to obtain the strength of diver­ sity. Your success will now
depend on the entrepreneurial ability of each of your five partners. Hunter firms attempt to maximize the entrepreneuralism of their members, by creating the maximum possible
degree of individual au­ tonomy. Rather than being “constrained” by firmwide choices on what markets to serve and which services to offer, Hunter firms en­ courage each individual
(and each small group) to respond and adapt to the local market. The benefits (and limitations) of firmwide consis­ tency (in services, in markets, and in approach) are sacrificed
in order to capture the benefits of local market opportunities. Hunters and Farmers 323 Like the Farmer system, the Hunter approach only works when it is done properly. Very
concrete management systems are required to pull this strategy off. To succeed, the Hunter firm must attract, moti­ vate, and reward the best entrepreneurs. In contrast to the
Farmer model, where rewards must be structured to emphasize teamwork and group contribution, the Hunter system requires that individuals rise and fall according to the results of
their own entrepreneurial ef­ forts. In essence, in a Hunter firm, it is everybody’s job to “chase the buffalo.” If buffalo die out, individuals are free to chase deer. And if,
while out hunting, they spy a flock of geese, they don’t have to check back with any central committee or managing partner to see if geese are “on strategy.” The message is simple:
There is no central strat­ egy—just kill meat! In order to succeed, Hunter systems need to be more short-term focused in their rewards. Those who kill meat get rewarded. Those who
can no longer kill meat—well, it would be nice to support them, but if we divert too much reward from the best hunters, we may sup­ press their entrepreneuralism. So, the message
inevitably ends up: your’re as good as your latest numbers. A key point about the Hunter-Farmer distinction should be stressed immediately. First, while I have made it sound
somewhat “brutish,” the Hunter approach is, indeed, a success model. Entrepreneuralism, flexibility, responsiveness, and fast adaptation to shifting market needs are powerful
business virtues. Any firm that could successfully maximize these will be a formidable competitor. Next, it is important to note that the terms do not refer to differ­ ences in
marketing aggressiveness. Similarly, the reader should not think of Hunters as “business getters” and Farmers as “doers.” Farmer firms are not “wimps” when it comes to marketing.
Indeed, the best Farmers are superb at marketing. The key distinction is that Farmers approach marketing as an organized, joint activity done as teams, while Hunters view marketing
as a matter of individual re­ sponsibility. We now come to the tough question. Is it possible for a single or­ ganization to capture both the Hunter and Farmer benefits? Can a
single firm obtain the virtues both of focus and firmwide approaches on the one hand, and of entrepreneuralism, flexibility, and adaptabil­ ity on the other? 324 M anaging th e P
rofessional S ervice F irm My own conclusion would be no. As I have tried to argue, it is not enough to be “sort of ” a Farmer. To capture the benefits of focus, then a very
detailed set of business and management decisions must be made. Similarly, to be a good Hunter, some concrete (and very dif­ ferent) systems are required. To test this proposition,
I compare and contrast in Table 2 8 -1 the main managerial choices that each of the two approaches requires. As may readily be seen, the two approaches are rarely compatible. You
may want to use this listing as a diagnostic test, by circling the item on each row that best describes your firm. In my view, there is a premium to be placed on internal
consistency between and among a firm’s man­ agement systems. If you circle mostly items in one column, you’ll be in better shape than if you circle equal numbers in either column.
If you do end up mostly in one column, then you may want to give some thought to the items that appear in the other column. Because these management practices are almost always
conflicting between the Hunter and Farmer approaches, firms who attempt to capture both groups of benefits (individual entrepreneuralism and collaborative strategy) must make
significant compromises in man­ agement practices, which usually, in my view, results in lessened per­ formance. Accordingly, professional firms must decide (or discover) whether
they are Hunters or Farmers, and learn to capitalize on the strengths of their chosen model. There is a temptation for firms to believe that the “grass is always greener” on the
other side. Collabo­ rative firms often yearn for more entrepreneuralism, while individu­ alistic firms bemoan their lack of organization. However, in their search to have both,
firms must be careful not to compromise their basic strength. Hunters and Farmers 325 TABLE 28-1 HUNTERS FARMERS BASIC CONCEPTS Central Principle Individual (or small group)
entrepreneuralism Firmwide collaboration Key Strengths Diversity, Flexibility Focus Strategy Internal Atmosphere Competitive Collaborative Management Style Bottom-line numbers
focus “Values” “Mission” Self-Image Streetfighters Team players Leader Best hunter High priest Decision Making Decentralized (autonomous) Coordinated (interdependent) C O N T R O L
SYSTEMS Philosophy Results measurement (almost exclusively) Greater use of judgments Planning Systems Mostly financial Strategic Profit Centers Strongly used, tied to compensation
For accounting purposes only Compensation Systems Short-term performance only More use of rolling averages Frequent year-to-year adjustments Smaller year-to-year adjustments Big
range high-to-low Small range high-to-low Seniority counts little Seniority more important Compensation Based on: Firm Profits 20 50 Profit Center Results 30 30 Individual Results
50 20 Attitude to Overhead Resist with vigor Prepared to invest Internal Structure Loose, frequently shifting More organized How Risk Is Taken In small chunks by many groups In
large chunks on a firmwide basis Territories Not allocated Allocated Internal Transfer Pricing Formalized, “full-cost” Less dependence Level of R&D Lower Higher 326 M an aging th e
P rofessional S ervice F irm TABLE 28-1 (cont.) HUNTERS FARMERS OPERATIONS Size of Operating Groups Smaller Larger Location Strategies Many locations opportunistic Fewer locations,
well-planned Length of Engagements Shorter (smaller) Longer (larger) Observed Leverage (Junior/Senior Ratio) Lower Higher Variety of Work Done for Clients High More focused Use of
Established Procedures on Engagements Less More Where Value Added to Clients Back-room analytics More front-room consultation Size of Engagement Team Smaller Larger HUMAN RESOURCES
Recruiting Less selective, rely on “Testing in action” Selective, partners involved Key Appraisal Characteristic Revenue production More varied roles for individuals Use of Lateral
(Senior) Hires Extensive Reluctant Turnover High, especially thru “quitting” Also high, but more asked to leave “Fast Track” Opportunities High Low Training On-the-job Formal,
structured Rotation of Juniors Infrequent Regular, systematic M A RKET PO SITIO N Emphasis on Client Relations Lesser Higher Best Marketing Opportunities Emerging practice areas
Practice areas with scale Typical Size of Client Varied, but frequently smaller Larger Hunters and Farmers 327 TABLE 28-1 (cont.) HUNTERS FARMERS Optimum Positioning Creative,
innovative, frontier Reliable, efficient, thorough Reaction to Mkt. Shifts Good at small, fast shifts Better at getting organized for systemic change Levels in Client Organization
Anywhere Aim for higher levels Mkt. Appeal Product/industry specialists Generalists Attitudes to Growth Opportunistic, prime goal Studied, secondary goal Use of Mergers High Lower
Expansion Strategy Same service, new markets Same markets, new services CHAPTER 29 MAKING THE NETWORK WORK Many, if not most, professional firms today are multilocation opera­
tions. Accountants, consultants, advertising agencies, and others have slowly built up their international presence. In the United States and Europe, multicity firms have emerged
in professions where they did not exist before. These networks seem well poised to compete in the modern marketplace. However, before they can do so, they have some significant
internal managerial problems to solve: the challenge of making their networks work. The problem can be easily described. Unlike their clients, most international firms are not
hierarchical companies with a simple chain of command. With rare exceptions, most of them are, in ef­ fect, federations of local organizations trading under the same brand name.
Few firms, if any, have yet been able to forge together these separate organizations to take advantage (on a regular, systematic basis) of their collective power; that is, to form
a truly connected network. Collaboration and cooperation across (internal) boundaries is preached internally, and is fervently desired, but is hard to accom­ plish. Not because of
bad management, but because of the complex managerial task of reaching for the benefits of both local autonomy and collaborative action. 329 330 M anaging th e P rofessional S
ervice F irm A major cause of the problem lies in the nature of professional practice. By very definition, professional work requires customization and the need to adapt the
practice to the special, individualized needs of a local clientele. In turn, this implies that a major degree of local autonomy is essential to any professional practice. Unlike
many of their manufacturing clients, professional firms cannot be “ruled from the center” by imposing standard operating practices to be followed everywhere. If they are to act in
harmony, it will come about only from a process of coalition building among powerful, independent, and autonomous peers, not through centralized edicts from a corpo­ rate “elite.”
The importance of local autonomy creates a peculiar dilemma for the multisite professional service firm. If the local practice is respon­ sible for winning engagements from
clients, solving their problems, and serving them well, then what is the role of the overall firm? What does it do? How does the firm (or the network) “add value” above and beyond
that provided by the local practice? What value do clients get from going to the multisite firm that they could not get by going to a good local firm? What value does the local
practice get from the network when it is still responsible (in the main) for generating and servicing its own business? In summary, what is the value of the net­ work? The
potential justifications for the network fall into two categories. First, the network can be valuable if it helps the local practice perform its local tasks better, and/or if the
local client receives more value because its local provider is more empowered, as a result of being part of a network. I term this the “local value” issue. Second, the network can
be of value in pursuing and serving multisite (or international) clients that no one practice could pursue alone. This is the “multilo­ cation client” issue. These two
justifications represent two completely different purposes (or rationales) for the network, requiring signifi­ cantly different management practices to execute. Of the two, the
most important to professional firms is ensuring that the network functions well in addressing the “local value” issue; that is, ensuring that the local practice, because of its
association with the network, is better able to win and serve local clients. The reason for this conclusion is that, at least to date and for the foreseeable future, the local
practice dominates, in size and importance, the mar­ ketplace for professional services. Multipractice or multinational cli­ Making the Network Wo r k 331 ents are glamorous,
exciting, and even, perhaps, profitable; but they are not the bulk of the business and are unlikely to become so. Ac­ cordingly, the network’s best opportunity to add value is
being helpful across the broad volume of the local practice. A second line of reasoning supports this conclusion. When firms do pursue international business they rapidly discover
that a “strong lo­ cal presence” in the countries of interest is a prerequisite to winning multinational engagements. Hence, it is in the firm’s interests to en­ sure that the
network is first functioning well on the local issue before attempting to tackle the multinational purpose. A third reason might also be mentioned. Since multinational work
requires collaboration, and this in turn rests on mutual trust, respect, and confidence, the likelihood of success will be promoted if the local practice has a his­ tory of
deriving benefit from the network, interacting with other prac­ tices for this purpose and establishing relationships across the firm. EMPOWERING THE LOCAL PRACTICE What, then, can
the network do for the local practice that it cannot achieve by itself? One obvious benefit of belonging to the network, both to the practice and its clients, is the power of the
brand name. For the client, the affiliation of the practice with the international network provides comfort, confidence, and (one hopes) quality assurance: In es­ sence the “You
can’t be criticized for going with IBM” effect. While this is undoubtedly powerful, it can be a mistake to rely too heavily on this justification for the network. After all, in
most professions there are at least a handful of equally prominent brand names. Although a brand name might help you begin a relationship, it is not that helpful thereafter. Yet,
in some professional firm networks I have observed, the brand name remains the main benefit that the local practice receives. What else can the network provide? An answer often
given is “cli­ ent access to expertise throughout the network.” Again, there is great validity to this, as long as the local client truly has a need for this. In my observation,
professional firms are good at delivering this benefit on “frontier” issues, where the firm’s expert is readily identifiable, and that person’s involvement can be charged to the
client. However, if the client (and hence the practice) is trying to tap into the firm’s accumu­ lated past experience (either on a given functional topic or in the cli­ ent’s
industry) in order to perform the current engagement more efficiently or effectively, then this is a benefit that’s harder to deliver. 332 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F
irm Few firms in my experience have data banks on past projects, for­ mal inventories of skills and experiences, or any other mechanisms to tap into the firm’s accumulated wisdom.
For a very good reason: such mechanisms are hard to maintain, require significant investment, and can rarely be charged to the client. Accordingly, when a “nonfrontier” issue does
come up that might benefit from assistance from elsewhere in the firm, few practices will go to the bother of “tapping the net­ work.” In most professions, the firm that could
design an effective knowledge and experience sharing mechanism would obtain a signif­ icant competitive advantage. Two other devices, training and sharing o f m ethodologies are
em­ ployed by most professional firms, and used well. However, it is in­ teresting to note that, in a majority of firms, these devices involve mostly the junior staff. In my
experience, there is relatively little for­ mal organization of training and sharing of the latest ideas and ap­ proaches among the senior staff. In my view, a significant
opportunity exists here to take greater advantage of the network in this area. In principle, the network could assist the local practices by compil­ ing and analyzing the com
parative econom ics of the various practices and assisting the managers of the practices in running their businesses more effectively. In my experience, while some firms are
dabbling in this area, few local practice heads would cite this as one of the great benefits of belonging to the network. Last, but not least, we should acknowledge the importance
of re­ ferrals. Many local practices report that this is the greatest benefit that they receive in belonging to the network: introductions to the local operations of multinational
companies served elsewhere by the firm. This is clearly a real benefit. PURSUING THE MULTILOCATION CLIENT The issue of referrals appropriately brings us to the question of using
the network to pursue and serve multilocation clients. The first point to be made here is that, in my experience, every international professional service firm has as a strategic
priority the goal of serving its multinational clients in multiple countries. Even those professions where international networks are not common, such as the law, are vigorously
examining this issue. This is driven by the Making the Network Wo r k 333 perception that business has (as the catchphrase has it ) “gone glo­ bal”—that there is a new era whereby
firms can win new business from a client, not just one country at a time, but in the form of mul­ ticountry engagements. Two problems exist with this view. First, it remains to be
seen how many multinational corporations will indeed purchase their profes­ sional services on a multicountry basis, and how many will continue the strongly entrenched past norm of
decentralizing the purchase of professional services to their head of operations in each of the coun­ tries. No one knows for sure which way things will go, but the truly
multicountry purchase is today a small percentage of most profes­ sional markets, even if it is potentially the most profitable. Second, if firms are to win this business, they
must be able to deliver what the multicountry purchaser is primarily seeking: multicountry coordination, control, and consistency. Yet this central benefit flies in the face of how
most professional firms are organized—as autono­ mous, distinct profit centers (or separately owned partnerships or companies). Because of this structure, organizing to serve the
multicountry cli­ ent places strains on the way the network has traditionally been op­ erated. Local practices have been accustomed to controlling their client relationships. In
the multicountry engagement, there needs to be, for the client’s benefit, someone in charge across boundaries. Nat­ urally, local practices fear this loss of control, and worry
about being dictated to. In addition, they worry about profitability. Who is to negotiate the fees for the engagement? How will the revenues be allocated across the various
practices involved? Why should we spend time trying to obtain a multicountry engagement when we incur all the marketing cost and get only some of the revenues? Various firms have
experimented with different mechanisms to solve these issues. At least one advertising agency has assigned a worldwide supervisor to each multinational client, with authority to
see that the client is served in the manner required by the client world­ wide. Obviously correct in principle, this action would create signif­ icant implementation difficulties
at many firms. What, precisely, does this person have the “authority” to do in a part of the firm where he 334 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm or she does not reside
(i.e., in another profit center)? Where I have seen this role work, the individual operates less through authority and more by persuasion, working through the local chain of
command, and trading favors. Another mechanism with which some firms have attempted to over­ come the barriers to cooperation is the use of “transfer payments” (i.e., internal
accounting between operating units) to recompense those individuals (and profit centers) who perform activities for the “common good” of others in the network. It is impossible to
design a simple transfer payment system that will provide sufficient incentive for all the desirable behaviors, but these systems can lower barriers to cooperation (if not remove
them). A problem in many firms with this solution is that, historically, work done by an individual in one office for another office in the firm is paid at a discount from standard
fees (to encourage professionals to focus on client work). Naturally, this does not provide much incentive to get involved in work outside the base office. Where (as I have seen it
applied) multinational work is paid for at a premium in the internal records, more volunteers can be found to get involved in this (supposedly) important strategic work. A common
experiment that professional firms are making is the formation of a separate multinational group, not associated with any one part of the network (i.e., solving the network
collaboration prob­ lem by taking the issue out of the network). These groups perform any or all of three roles: They are a home for specially hired (or developed) multinational
specialists; they fund and develop special services for the multinational market; and they serve as the multinational market­ ing arm. This makes eminent sense, until one considers
the internal politics of the professional firm. After all, who is to pay for the activities of this group, which is rarely self-funding? Naturally the answer is the local practices
through their contributions to “overhead.” As might be ex­ pected, local practices are suspicious of such overhead (which they do not control), and tend to fund it thinly, if at
all. Second, who is this “elite” group going after? The same clients that the local practice is pursuing for local engagements! Third, who is going to do the multi­ country work?
The local practice will want to do that part which is relevant to its locale, but (again) who’s in charge of it if someone else has the relationship with the client? M a k i n g
the N e t w o r k W o r k 335 SOME IDEAS ON COLLABORATION In my experience, no “structural” solution (such as those discussed above: changing lines of authority, transfer payments,
or creating sep­ arate groups) will solve the network problem. Rather, the real issue must be addressed head on: How do you get cooperation in an envi­ ronment of autonomous units?
Some basic principles about human nature may help here. The first rule I would offer is: Groups don't cooperate, people d o . An individ­ ual in one location might not feel much
fervor in doing a favor for an individual in another location. But if he or she has worked with a specific person there, there is a greater chance that help will be forth­ coming.
What this means is that to promote cross-boundary cooper­ ation, firms should create as many opportunities for individuals to get to know each other and work together as possible.
Possibilities in­ clude: rotation of staff on temporary assignments; cross-staffing of client work even when not essential; frequent meetings to discuss de­ velopments and latest
techniques; and so on. Even though they may not appear to be dramatic moves, these actions will go a long way toward breeding the collaborative spirit that the new environment
seems to require. In similar spirit, the second rule I would offer is: Start small and go for the early success. If the firm wishes to get people eager to cooperate across
boundaries, there is no better way than to find an opportunity to demonstrate that it w orks (for all parties). In other words, rather than trying to sell the whole organization on
acting collaboratively, find a limited project that those who are will­ ing to try can act on. For example, quietly go after a single multi­ country engagement and prove it can
work. If the collaborative benefits are there, they can be publicized and the new program “rolled out.” Finally, I would offer: N etw orks get built a link at a time. This means
that responsibility lies not only with the firm, but with each individual local practice. Rather than trying to take advantage of the whole firm, local practice managers should
think about which of its numerous links to other practices in the firm could be strengthened by bilateral collaboration. This task is easier to execute, and quicker in its payback.
336 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm These suggestions clearly do not solve the problems faced by pro­ fessional firms in this area, but they may help. The issue of
collabo­ ration among autonomous units is one of the business world’s harder managerial problems. In the next chapter, Creating the Collaborative Firm, we will delve more deeply
into possible solutions CHAPTER 30 CREATING THE COLLABORATIVE FIRM As noted in the previous chapter, large professional service firms, di­ vided into different departments or
numerous local offices, face a con­ stant dilemma. On the one hand, the firm wishes to induce and reward individual initiative in each department or office. On the other hand, the
firm has a need for coordinated action, mutual support, and shared responsibilities. To achieve this, the firm must reward those individ­ uals who, somewhat selflessly, contribute
to the success of the firm as a whole, even when this contribution is not reflected (at least in the short term) in their individual performance measures. The tension between
individual groups and the needs of the firm are frequently revealed when individual profit centers forego activities (such as market research on a particular industry) whose
benefit to the firm as a whole is large enough to warrant the cost, but whose benefit to the individual profit center is not sufficient to warrant them engag­ ing in that activity.
Even if the profit center (or individual) is assured that contribution to overall firm success will (through some judgmen­ tal process) be recognized and rewarded, such rewards are
often seen as more uncertain and risky than the “hard” evidence of individual profit center profitability or individual revenue generation. The problem exists in single-site firms
as well. Virtually all mul­ tidisciplinary professional firms fervently advocate cross-selling of the firm’s full range of services to clients who use only one department. 337 338
M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm Yet, remarkably, few of these firms have made cross-selling a normal part of daily behavior. Much more common is the pattern of behavior
whereby individuals focus on improving the profitability of their own group, rather than assisting other groups in order to penetrate their clientele. This problem is a difficult
one, to which there is no easy answer. Some principles can, however, be established. First among these is the essential role of long-term repeated interaction betw een the sam e p
e o ­ p l e .Cooperation emerges when people find it in their interest to do favors for each other, to help each other out. However, these favors rarely occur simultaneously.
Rather, it’s a case of “You do a favor for me now, and I’ll owe you one: I’ll help you on your problems next time you ask.” To sustain this, the future must have a large enough
shadow: those who are to cooperate must have a large enough chance of interacting with, and needing, each other again. In many ways, this view of cooperation and collaboration
leads individuals and firms into a Catch-22. If I’ve never cooperated with X in the past, I’m less likely to cooperate with him or her in the future. Those I have collaborated with
are likely to receive my cooperation again. Firms that have a history of collaboration will cooperate more in the future. Firms trying to get it started will have to seed and nur­
ture the fragile plant before it takes on a life of its own. The foundation o f cooperation is not really trust, but the durability o f the relationship. It is readily evident that
firms which have grown through mergers and lateral (senior-level) hires always have less in­ ternal cooperation than those that have grown from within. As obvi­ ous as this may
seem, this observation casts significant doubt on those firms that have had a strategy of trying to justify the benefits of merg­ ers through cross-selling and cross-referral of
the newly acquired ser­ vices. We have already noted that groups don't cooperate, people d o . If cooperation is based on reciprocal favors, separated in time, an audit partner in
Milan is unlikely to do a favor for the consulting depart­ ment or for the Brussels office, trusting that the favor will be remem­ bered and repaid. But he or she is more likely to
believe that a favor done for a given individual will be remembered and repaid. Attempts to get the audit department (as a group) to cooperate with the con­ sulting department or
the Brussels office (as groups) are doomed to failure. Firms must create a situation where the same people from Creating the Collaborative Firm 339 these different departments (or
different geographic locations) inter­ act frequently. It is important to note that cooperation must be a two-way street: It can only evolve when both parties are in a position to
be helpful to the other. If one party is always giving the favor, and the other receiv­ ing, the situation is unstable and unlikely to be perpetuated. The ab­ sence of this has
