policies (“rules of the game” ) such as the following: Performance appraisals (For what do we hold people accountable ?) Profitability and other measurement systems (How do we keep
score?) Systems for salary, bonus, and profit allocations (What incentives drive the behavior of our people?) Selection, role definition, and evaluation of practice leaders Quality
assurance procedures An example of a strategic move in this area is provided by the account­ ing firm that has committed itself to mandatory client feedback on all engagements
above a certain size, in order to create an internally vis­ ible scorecard on service quality. This is a move more profoundly strategic in achieving service quality than any amount
of training pro­ grams and retreat speeches could accomplish. Or, to take another 234 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm example, the multioffice actuarial firm that has
committed itself to annual staff satisfaction surveys, the results of which are to be used in the performance appraisal of office managers. Again, changing the “scorecard” will be
infinitely more powerful in changing behavior (and achieving strategic improvement) than preaching the importance of “human resource management” or including “professional fulfill­
ment” in the mission statement of the firm. The second responsibility of firm management in the strategy pro­ cess is to set the ground rules for investment of firm funds. Strategy
development is fundamentally an investment notion: A competitive advantage doesn’t come free. Accordingly, if the firm is to be better “positioned” tomorrow, the firm must spend
something today. It might not be out-of-pocket cash: the firm may have to invest its (oth­ erwise billable) time. Since the firm’s ability to make investments, whether of time or
money, is obviously limited, the firm must establish some priorities. As noted above, those best positioned to suggest or propose specific investments are those responsible for
executing the strategy: the prac­ tice groups. However, it is the responsibility of the firm management to set the ground rules for how investment proposals will be treated.
Perhaps more important, it is the role of firm management to stimu­ late and elicit investment proposals. One of the unfortunate quirks of professional firm accounting is that most
of the critical strategic activities (such as training, allowing selected individuals reduced chargeability in order to develop new specialties, developing new project
methodologies to achieve efficien­ cies, engaging in new service development) do not show up as “invest­ ments” in the firm’s accounts. Rather, they show up as reduced billability,
that is, lower net income. As the saying goes, “One per­ son’s investment is another person’s loss.” Accordingly, individual partners, subject to the ongoing financial control
systems of the firm, tend to postpone or avoid investment activities for fear of being judged as missing their income targets. It is therefore an important responsibility of firm
management to create an opportunity for investment proposals to be brought for­ ward, considered outside the normal accounting procedures of the firm, and approved or disapproved
in advance on the merits. The “bottom-up” strategy development process described here is just such a process. GETTING STARTED In launching a strategy development process, I have
found two ques­ tions to be of particular value. Posing them either to the management committee, the practice areas, or (better) to the partnership at large, I seek answers to
these questions: a. If you could invest $X million in the next year (above and be­ yond our current level of investment) with the goal of improving the competitiveness of the
practice and making its future more secure, what would you spend it on? b. If you could improve our competitiveness by changing one as­ pect of the firmwide management practices
and policies (mea­ surements, reward systems, organization, compensation policies, selection and appraisal of practice leaders, etc.), what would you change? The answers to these
questions usually provide an excellent starting point for the essential debate that is the crux of strategy: How can we get better at what we do? CHAPTER 21 FAST-TRACK STRATEGY
Here’s how it’s done. You divide the firm into small teams or practice groupings (by location, by discipline, by industry). Go for the smallest subgroupings you’ve got, keeping the
teams as small as possible. You give each team four sheets of paper (Figure 2 1 - 1 ) which have four key objectives, one to a page. The four key objectives are to: • Raise client
satisfaction • Increase skill building and dissemination of skills • Improve productivity (not just production) • Get better business Beneath the objective listed on each page are
five columns: • What actions are proposed • Which individual will take responsibility for each action • How much time will be spent on each action • When each will be done by • How
we’ll know each action’s been done You tell each group that a “coach” (either a managing partner or a member of the executive committee) will meet with them for two to three hours
in four to six weeks’ time to discuss what actions they are prepared to commit to do over the next three months to make progress toward the four objectives. 237 238 M anaging the P
rofessional S ervice F irm FIG U RE 2 1 -1 Raise Client Satisfaction Increase Skill Building Improve Productivity Get Better Business Action Person Time Responsible Required Due
Date Tracking (Completion) Indicator They are informed that only actions will be accepted, not goals. Thus, it is not permissible to write “Raise our market awareness”— that’s a
goal. Instead, they must choose something like “Put on three seminars on topics X, Y, Z .” They can’t put “Train juniors better”— that’s also too vague. They must put something
like “Hold weekly discussion sessions with staff including presentations by senior part­ ners on their respective specialties.” Each action, it will be noted, must be the
responsibility of a specific person: This is not meant to discourage teamwork (different actions may be part of an integrated plan), but is required to ensure a specific focus of
responsibility. Many people may be involved in putting on a Fast-Track Strategy 239 seminar, but some specific someone must be “on the hook” for ensur­ ing that it all comes
together and takes place. During the discussion of the action plan, the coach will “test” the feasibility of the plan. Will the proposed actions really make a differ­ ence? Has
enough time been budgeted to complete each action prop­ erly? Is there enough nonbillable time available to do it all? Is the team leaning too much on a few individuals? Are there
other people who have some time who could be brought into the effort? Like all good coaches, the coach will alternate between encourag­ ing ambition (“Couldn’t you accomplish a
little more in three months? Can’t we put a bit more stretch into this plan?” ) and dampening ex­ cessive enthusiasms (“Let’s take it a step at a time. I recommend you limit
yourselves to what you really think you can get done. Remember we’re asking for solid commitments” ). If necessary, the coach might offer some suggestions (not instructions) for
possible actions. The coach will try to guide the team (gently) to actions that are likely to have a payoff, to work. What the coach wants is what the team wants— the early
successes that breed not only optimism and enthusiasm, but also the morale and commitment to do more— to try it again. At the end of this conversation, the surviving plan becomes a
“con­ tract” between the coach and the team. Before the meeting concludes, a specific, ironclad meeting date is chosen approximately three months hence to review the execution of
the plan, and its impact—what worked, what didn’t, what proved easy to pull off, what is more com­ plicated than it first looked. At that meeting, in addition to the lookback
review, a new action plan covering the next three months (using the same planning forms) will be discussed and agreed to. And so on, and so on, until the process becomes a routine
part of the management control systems of the firm. That’s it—that’s fast-track strategy making. WHAT’S DIFFERENT ABOUT THIS What’s different about this approach to strategy is
that it doesn’t waste a lot of time talking about the objectives of the practice. The objectives of the practice are the same as the firm’s—the same as every firm’s. If you’re
making progress on client satisfaction, skill building, 240 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm productivity, and getting better business, you’ve got all the strategy you
need. And if these aren’t your objectives—well, it’s hard to imag­ ine what you are up to. Most, if not all, other strategic topics can fit within these four cat­ egories. Take,
for example, that of technology— where does it fit in this system? The answer is that some teams may see technology as a way to enhance profitability. Others may identify practical
opportu­ nities to use it to further the goals of client satisfaction or skill build­ ing. If it furthers none of the four goals, then what’s the point of technology? Or consider
another “hot topic” nowadays: globaliza­ tion. Some practice groups may be involved with international clients and will list tactics addressing this area in the name of client
service, profitability enhancement, or getting better business. Staff morale and retention will be addressed in the skill-building category. This approach to strategy cuts through
all the hoopla and hocuspocus that goes on in the name of strategic planning and goes directly to actions— actions for which there is a finite horizon, an identifiable
accountability, and most of all, a high degree of confidence that some­ thing will actually happen. It’s not grand scheme, inspirational vision, analysis-paralysis strategy making.
There are no great volumes of paper, nothing to be filed on a shelf, no “Business Unit Planning Methodologies,” no “Analysis of Strengths and Weaknesses,” no “Competitor Analysis,”
no boring presentation to sit through: just action steps which people commit to. It’s strategy through activity: Try something, anything, but act—now\ The action steps are not
meant to be transformational, home run ideas that take months to get organized for, and broad consensus to implement (such as “Let’s form a committee to develop a new human
resource model for the firm”; “Let’s turn all our partners into business advisors” ). These things almost always fail to be implemented. The action steps are a first set of ideas
that can be done within three months (no long “planning horizons” please). They’re not a complete strat­ egy, but they are the first of an ongoing series of actions, reconsidered,
reanalyzed, and readjusted every three months. If what we thought of doing first doesn’t work, we’ll do something different in three months time, but let's get started! This
approach takes strategy out of the realm of being a periodic (“Once every X years” ) exercise, and builds strategic thinking (“How can we improve from where we are” ) into the
regular operations of Fast-Track Strategy 241 the firm. It is a system to institutionalize continuous improvement, and create the “constantly learning organization.” It fights
compla­ cency, because each three months it asks, “. . . and what are you going to do next?” This approach is not a budgeting process— it’s a complement to financial budgeting.
Practice group budgets describe what firms aim to accomplish with their billable time. The fast-track strategy process provides a framework for practice groups to make wise use of
their nonbillable time. What a group does with its billable time determines its income for the year. What it does with its nonbillable time deter­ mines its future. Unlike uniform
firmwide planning systems, this approach doesn’t impose the same force-fit solutions on every practice. There’s no cen­ tralized plan handed down from on top to be followed by
everyone re­ gardless of circumstances. What one part of the firm needs to do to improve profitability may be different than some other part of the firm. That’s OK—as long as they
both do something. Some may approach client satisfaction through technical approaches, others by focusing on client service. That’s OK too—as long as they all accept their
obligation to contribute in some way in this area. This approach to strategy max­ imizes the chance that each practice does what is right for its circum­ stances. It automatically
accommodates the needs of small offices and large offices, mainstream practices and emerging practices. This brings us to the next virtue of this approach to strategy: Each group
is given the freedom and autonomy to plan its own activities— the plan is theirs. They are not being asked to execute the ideas of others (with which they may or may not agree).
The group is being asked to plan as a team: Together they must develop the action lists to be discussed with the coach. Planning together and making their own decisions increases
the likelihood of enthusiasm in implementation. In this approach, everyone has a role in strategy development. The message is sent and reinforced every three months—what happens to
this firm is what you come up with. Each one of you is a strategic planning committee member—except there’s no such committee. THE ROLE OF THE COACHES Coaches (usually firm
management) get to play a key role in this ap­ proach to strategy—not by telling people what to do, but by encour­ 242 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm aging them to
take responsibility for their practice’s success (and the firm’s success). They must make the process work by giving as much attention and seriousness to reviewing the action plans
as they do to the monthly financials. If they do not, the system will wither away as yet another bureaucratic exercise. One part of this system is critical: Follow-up. The system
is about negotiating “contracts for action.” What makes it work is the fact that the coach will be coming round to see how things have worked out. Not a year from now, but in three
short months (the short cycle is essential to breed the sense of urgency that leads to action). If the follow-up meetings do not take place as scheduled, then the whole approach
falls to the ground. If management doesn’t take the process seriously by visibly monitoring what has been agreed to, the level of activity will grind to a halt. The coaches have a
final, perhaps most important role in making the system work. They have the responsibility and the duty to crossfertilize (“Group X has tried this: Do you think it can work for
you?” ) and to find new linkages (“You guys seem to be thinking along the same lines as one of our other teams—why don’t you talk to them and develop some joint activities?” ). By
capturing and sharing the best ideas from each team, they can, over time, develop the firm’s accumu­ lated experience on “what works.” By encouraging and supporting continued
experimentation in each of the four key areas, they will help to breed a flexible, adaptable, responsive organization— one that is constantly trying new things and responding to
the marketplace. PART FIVE PARTNERSHIP MATTERS CHAPTER 22 PARTNER PERFORMANCE COUNSELING Of all the ways of improving a professional firm’s success, partner performance counseling
is one of the most powerful. Done well, it can help ensure that all professionals are making the most of their talents and capitalizing fully on their potential. Unfortunately, the
process rarely works this way in practice. In many firms, partner performance reviews are a rushed (and often poorly executed) step in a larger com­ pensation process. In these
firms, reviews tend to focus overwhelmingly on the “lookback” appraisal function (in order to serve as an input to reward decisions) and contain only a minimal “look ahead”
counseling component. Partners frequently complain about ineffective goal setting, ambiguous performance criteria, a lack of feedback (of any sort), and a process that is not well
understood. A common complaint is “I can tell from my compensation award what you think of my performance, but I can’t tell why you think that; and I’ve no idea what you want me to
change.” The performance counseling process can (and should) be designed to help partners, creating the opportunity for them to: • Reflect on and learn from the past year’s
accomplishments • Receive constructive feedback, positive or negative • Receive personalized advice on how best to advance their career 245 246 M anaging th e P rofessional S
ervice F irm • Receive guidance in setting realistic but stretching personal goals for “growing their asset” and making a contribution to the firm In what follows we shall describe
a process designed to accomplish these goals. STEP 1. SPECIFYING PERFORMANCE CRITERIA The first essential element of any effective performance counseling system is a shared
understanding of what aspects of performance the firm wishes to stress. There is often much ambiguity here. In my view, the key performance indicators, for which all partners would
be held accountable, should be made up of the following six cate­ gories: 1. Profitability of work supervised 2. Client satisfaction on work supervised 3. Coaching on work
supervised 4. Contributions to practice development 5. Contributions to the success of others 6. Personal growth (career strategy) The first three categories, it will be noticed,
relate to the partner’s performance in managing and supervising client work. Taken to­ gether, they signal that any partner handling a client matter has three responsibilities: to
the client (client satisfaction); to the firm (profit­ ability); and to those who worked with the partner on the assignment (skill building). Not coincidentally, these three
performance indica­ tors coincide with the three traditional goals of most professional firms— (client) service, (professional) satisfaction, and (financial) suc­ cess. (See
Chapter 1, A Question of Balance.) Note that the financial measure being proposed relates to the over­ all profitability o f the client assignments that the partner is responsible
for, not just his or her personal billings. Systems that stress a partner’s personal numbers (rather than the aggregate of what he or she is re­ sponsible for) tend to lead to
“hoarding” of work and a lack of at­ tention to efficiency and productivity. There is little virtue in partners managing engagements so that their own numbers look good if this
leads (as it often does) to poor management of the efforts of other professional staff involved. (See Chapter 4, Solving the Underdelega­ tion Problem.) Partner Performance
Counseling 247 Even in firms that do focus on the total client billings rather than personal numbers, there is frequently a problem. In many firms’ re­ ward systems, one frequently
sees reference to performance indicators such as “supervising an extraordinary volume of fees.” This indicator can be dangerous, since it is not result oriented or performance ori­
ented. The issue should less be one of what volume you manage than what results you accomplish with that volume—profitability, client satisfaction, or skill building. To avoid this
problem, firms should calculate a full profit and loss statement for each client assignment, specifically calculating the costs of the resources, partner and nonpartner, that were
consumed in con­ ducting the assignment. At the end of the year, these can then be ag­ gregated to provide a figure on the total profitability of each partner’s work. (See Chapter
3, Profitability: Health and Hygiene, for a discus­ sion of profitability measures.) Client satisfaction can be measured on a systematic basis by using feedback questionnaires. If
done routinely, these can be aggregated annually, to provide a “score” on client satisfaction, by partner. (See Chapter 8, A Service Quality Program.) Similarly, the use of routine
“upward feedback” questionnaires from junior professionals on all client assignments can provide a metric on each partner’s performance in coaching. (See Chapter 4, Solving the
Underdelegation Problem.) Through the use of these systems, quantitative indicators of all three engagement performance areas can be obtained. It should be noted that this system
of simultaneous accountability for profitability, client satisfaction, and coaching explicitly discour­ ages hoarding of “client responsibility.” In some firms, particularly those
where emphasis is given to volume, partners compete for client responsibility because it increases the “bulk” of their practice. Under the system proposed here, volume is no
guarantee of good perfor­ mance. A partner who accepts responsibility for a client assignment also accepts an accountability to perform in three measurable areas. Accordingly,
partners will accept (or keep) this responsibility if and only if they think they can execute and supervise the work well. This should give the firm greater flexibility in making
sure that work is assigned to appropriate partners. The remaining three performance categories (practice develop­ ment, helping others, and self-improvement) need to be judged, not
measured. This is particularly true of the “contributions to practice 248 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm development” category. Many firms attempt to quantify this
perfor­ mance by assigning “origination” credits to specific individuals who brought in specific pieces of new business. Such systems are fraught with problems. First, origination
credit systems tend to reward the volume of busi­ ness brought in (i.e., the top line) rather than either its profitability (the bottom line) or its strategic desirability.
Consequently, an incen­ tive is created to bring in any work, rather than the types of work that will truly develop the practice. A second flaw of quantified origination credit
systems is that they interfere with (if not destroy) teamwork in practice development. Credit usually goes only to those who “sell and close,” leaving little incentive to
participate in other necessary prac­ tice development activities such as writing articles, participating in seminars, and so on. (See Chapter 12, Managing the Marketing Ef­ fort.)
In the typical professional firm, it is usually easy for an executive or compensation committee to tell who has contributed to and been ef­ fective in practice development, even if
there are no hard statistics on this. By making the system judgmental, there will be a greater likeli­ hood that individual partners will find a way to contribute to the overall
effort, and that rewards for practice development activities can take into account not only the volume of business won but also its value to the firm. By explicitly including this
criterion in the perfor­ mance counseling system for all partners, a signal will be sent that, one way or another, all partners should contribute to developing the practice. Some
may never “sell,” but they may write articles, give speeches, nurture existing clients, or any of a myriad of other activities which support the growth and development of the firm.
The fifth performance category described above was “contributions to the success of others.” One of the eternal risks in any performance appraisal and counseling system is that it
encourages an excessive focus on individual performance and destroys teamwork. To coun­ teract this, each partner should be asked to point to specific ways in which he or she has
contributed to the success of others. A partner who cannot meet this criterion should be deemed as having failed to meet his or her obligations as a member of a firm. The final
category is self-improvement. Every partner should (on a look-back basis) be able to show some way in which he or she has Partner Performance Counseling 249 grown as a
professional, and (on a look-forward basis) have a plan for growing his or her asset. STEP 2. DESIGNING THE COUNSELING PROCESS SELF-EV A LU A TIO N The process should begin with
the firm sending to each partner the quantitative information it keeps on partner performance (preferably including financial and nonfinancial scorecards, as described above) with
a note saying: Please prepare a self-evaluation o f your accom plishm ents this year. As you prepare your review, please exam ine the enclosed quantitative in­ form ation on your
activities. If you believe any o f this is in error, or in any way misleading, please feel free to com m ent. The firm should include the " official” statistics that it collects on
that partner (perhaps also a listing of new business that the partner as­ sisted in winning). It is important that data be provided not only for the latest year, but also for at
least one preceding year. This is neces­ sary to ensure that “good performance” is taken to mean im prove­ ment and not just sustaining a given level of result. To do otherwise
will only encourage “cruising.” Counseling discussions should focus upon year-on-year changes, not just the latest year. The firm should also send the goals and action plans from
the part­ ner’s previous counseling session. It is remarkable how frequently past plans are filed and forgotten. This undercuts the credibility of the performance counseling
process. The simple gesture of saying “We haven’t forgotten the goals you set two years ago, here’s what you said and what we agreed to” conveys a powerful message about the seri­
ousness of the process. Figure 22-1 provides a format for the partner self-appraisal. It will be noted that the partner is invited to comment on all six performance areas. STEP 3.
IMPLEMENTING THE PROCESS The partner is now ready to meet with the counselor. But who should this be? In a small firm, all partners could be counseled by a single compensation
committee chosen for that purpose. In larger firms, this 250 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm FIGU RE 2 2 -1 Partner Self-Evaluation Ple a s e d e s c r ib e a n d r e v
ie w y o u r p r in c ip a l a c c o m p lis h m e n t s in t h e p a s t y e a r . Y o u r r e v ie w s h o u ld fo c u s m o r e o n a c c o m p lis h m e n t s (resu lts a c h
ie v e d ) a n d less o n a d e s c r ip t io n o f a c t iv i­ ties (w h a t y o u d id ). I f s p e c ific g o a ls w e r e a g r e e d o n in a p r e v io u s c o u n s e lin g
s e s s io n , p le a s e r e la t e y o u r c o m m e n t s to t h o s e g o a ls . Y ou s h o u ld a d d r e s s t h e fo llo w in g p e r f o r m a n c e c a t e g o ­ ries: 1.
PRO FITA BILITY Please comment on your contributions to firm profitability through wise engagement manage­ ment, control of billings, accounts receivable, work-in-process, and
other financial matters. 2. Q U A LITY O F C LIEN T RELATIONS AND SERVICE What special accomplishments have you achieved in providing outstanding service to clients, either through
technical achievement or relationship management? 3. COACHING AND O TH ER CO N TRIBU TIO N S T O SKILL BUILDING Please comment on your contribution to building skills in others
through your supervision of more junior professionals on your engagements. 4. PRACTIVE D EV ELO PM EN T Describe your accomplishments in contributing to the development of our
practice, through assisting in developing new work from existing clients, new clients obtained, or any other activities advancing the reputation of the firm. Include here your
accomplishments in commu­ nity activities, any speeches, participation in seminar panels, publications, etc., and any civic service, social club, or other outside activity which
you wish to include. 5. GOOD CITIZENSHIP Please comment on any achievements in the area of firm, office, or practice contributions, such as participation in firm recruiting,
committees, or other nonbillable assignments you have performed. You may also want to refer to ways you have contributed to the success of the firm not otherwise covered above. In
particular, please identify what you have done in the last year that the rest of the partnership has benefited from. The following list of possibilities may help: 1. M a d e in te
lle c tu a l/ t e c h n ic a l c o n t r ib u tio n s u s e d b y o t h e r s 2. T r a n s fe r r e d m y s k ill t o o t h e r p a r tn e r s a n d /o r ju n io r s 3 . M a d e m
e t h o d o l o g y im p r o v e m e n t s u s e d b y o t h e r s 4 . I n c r e a s e d m a r k e t a w a r e n e s s o f o u r p r a c t ic e 5. B r o u g h t in w o r k f o r o
t h e r s t o w o r k o n 6. S u c c e s s fu lly c r o s s - s o ld m y p a r tn e r s to m y c lien ts 6. PERSONAL D EV ELO PM EN T Review the ways you judge that you have
improved your knowledge and skill in the past year. W hat has made you a more valuable professional? You may wish to comment on: • In c r e a s e in t e c h n ic a l k n o w le d g
e a n d s k ill • In d u s tr y k n o w l e d g e • S u p e r v is o r y a n d m a n a g e m e n t s k ills • C lie n t c o u n s e lin g a n d r e la t io n s h ip m a n a g e m e
n t s k ills Partner Performance Counseling 251 is impossible, and the counseling must be done by practice leaders— those in charge of a discipline, an office, or a practice area.
In fact, this approach is preferable. The job of being a practice leader carries with it the responsibility of helping other partners in the group to succeed. Indeed, that’s almost
the definition of the role. Counseling and per­ formance appraisal are, therefore, central to the practice leader’s func­ tion. A compensation committee may be appropriate to take
the results of the counseling and translate them into compensation awards, but the counseling itself is a managerial function. FORCED RANKING Obviously, the counselor must also
prepare for the meeting. A good discipline is for the reviewing partner to form a tentative, beginning opinion on where the reviewed partner falls relative to all other part­ ners
on each of the six performance categories. An effective way to do this is to place the partner in one of four levels in each category: superior (top 25% ), good (upper 50% ),
acceptable (lower 50% ), and needs improvement (lower 25% ). This “forced ranking” is of­ ten emotionally difficult (no one wants to tell others that they are below average) but
the courage to be honest is the essence of good counseling. The partner should also be invited to rank himself or herself on this scale for each of the six categories. In the
meeting between that part­ ner and the counselor they would discuss and compare their evalua­ tions. Differences in the partner’s self-perception and the reviewing partner’s
evaluation would be discussed and docum ented (for review by the compensation committee). The virtue of documenting the two ratings (one by the partner, one by the counselor) is
that the partner has a right to know as soon as possible if the reviewing partner’s judgment is different from the part­ ner’s own self-evaluation. Although it might appear
potentially confrontative, the documentation of ratings means that the partner being reviewed has the comfort that what he or she has been told in the counseling session is the
same as what is being forwarded to the com­ pensation committee. Any differences in perception that remain after the counseling session, if put in writing, become valid input to
the compensation committee. This process has the virtue that it guaran­ tees the partner feedback on his or her performance and it forces dif­ ferences in perception to be brought
out for discussion. 252 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm If the firm uses a structured form for counseling sessions (in gen­ eral, a good idea), it can be productive to
include a section which rates not only accomplishments but specific skills. For example, the form could include the following skills: • Communications skills (ability to express
thoughts in a logical, fluent, and concise manner) • Counseling skills (tact, the ability to explain, to persuade others in a nonconfrontative style, see the other person's point o
f view, keeping client inform ed, listening well, etc.) • Creativity and innovativeness • Planning and organization (ability to get things done) • Leadership (motivation o f
subordinates, effectiveness in delega­ tion) • Cooperativeness and team play • Drive, self-motivation Both a self-rating and a feedback rating could then be made on these items as
well as the six categories described above. If a counseling session is to be constructive, the suggested areas for improvement need to be as specific as possible. By providing the
opportunity to point out the need for improvement in specific skills, the partner can only benefit. An overall evaluation category should be included on the form. This is a
reasonable expectation for a partner to have and is needed to ensure that no misperceptions remain about what the performance review implies for the remainder of the
compensation-setting process. It should serve to reduce (but never eliminate) the number of “sur­ prises.” (Great performance review, no compensation increase!) CA REER PLANNING
The next stage of the counseling discussion is the “career planning” portion. Career planning (“What’s my role in the firm?” ) cannot and should not be separated from the
performance evaluation process (“How am I doing?” ). Rather these need to be two portions of the same process. One way of doing this is to include a section in the partner
counseling process that explicitly asks the partner being re­ viewed (and the reviewing partner) to engage in career planning for that partner, that is, to identify which “career”
track offers that part­ ner the greatest opportunity to make a contribution to the firm. Partner Performance Counseling 253 This is seeking an answer to the question “What,
specifically, do you wish to be famous for?” Possible options that could be included as career tracks are: • Technical expert in a particular service area • Industry expert •
Superior client counselor • Superior ability to get things done through others • Special abilities in practice development • Special ability to work with certain types of clients
(e.g., Fortune 500, entrepreneurs, high net worth individuals) • Superior ability to transfer skills to others Together, the counselor and the partner can think through what that
partner could do to make himself or herself “special in the market­ place.” Forcing a discussion on career plans will make the counseling process more long-term, and will signal to
all partners the need for them to develop some form of special skill or focus that will make them different. GOAL SETTING AND ACTION PLANNING The final, and most important phase of
the counseling process is goal setting and action planning. This could be enhanced by including in any documentation a section that establishes clear priorities for im­ provement
among the possible goal categories. Firms have had great success with rating systems that “force” a ranking among possible goals and success criteria. For example, the forms could
ask partners to do the following: For the 6 categories of achievement place a “ 1” by the strongest cate­ gory and a “ 6 ” by the category most in need of improvement. Then place a
“2 ” by the next strongest category and a “5 ” by the category needing the next most improvement. Place a “ 3 ” and a “4 ” in the re­ maining categories. Use these rankings to
choose priorities among your goals. It is important to force the discipline of designing (and documenting) concrete action plans by requiring that every action item must show a due
date, a tracking measure (i.e., a milestone to show whether the action has been performed or not), and an estimate of time required. This discipline helps to highlight ambiguous
goals (“become better known” ) and also to reveal actions that might be infeasible because of 254 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm time limitations. The objectives and
plans thus created form the be­ ginning of the appraisal system for the following year. CONCLUSION The test of successful counseling is simple: Does the partner being reviewed know
specifically and precisely what to do to improve his or her performance in the coming year? If so, then the counselor has done the job properly. If not, then the counseling has
failed, and so has the counselor. Accordingly, I consider it a good discipline for the coun­ seling process to end with a statement signed both by the partner and the counselor
affirming that the partner does know where to go from here. The design of an effective counseling and appraisal process is not a difficult task. Good implementation is difficult
because counseling is a relatively time-consuming activity that requires a significant commit­ ment (and no little skill) from those charged with managerial respon­ sibility. They
(and the firm) must accept (and believe) that the job of a manager is to help other people succeed—and that the counseling process is a major instrument in making this happen.
CHAPTER 23 THE ART OF PARTNER COMPENSATION Partner compensation is the most troublesome topic in professional service firm management. A firm may live happily with its system for a
long time, but when the topic comes up— and it inevitably does—the ensuing debate can be the most bitter and divisive the partnership ever faces. The issues are indeed profound. In
the division of profits, what is an appropriate balance between recognizing current performance versus long-term contributions? Who should get more: the big business get­ ter or
the most creative professional? The partner who trains associ­ ates well or the one who works the most billable hours? The leader of a large department or a pioneer in a new
practice area? Most impor­ tant, who, in a partnership of supposed peers, should make these de­ cisions? Partners, after all, are owners, not employees. At least as important as
dollars and cents are the signals commu­ nicated, or at least perceived to have been communicated, through compensation decisions. These messages— about what gets rewarded and
about the relative status and respect accorded each partner— affect not only the firm’s culture and atmosphere, but also, by influ­ encing how partners choose to spend their time,
its strategic direction. Many firms postpone evaluations of their compensation system as long as possible, attempting to handle problems case by case. In my 255 256 M anaging th e
P rofessional S ervice F irm view this is dangerous and unwise. When working with professional service firms on other management issues such as marketing, client service, or
coaching of junior staff, I continually encounter one major stumbling block in improving effectiveness in these areas. At some point in every discussion, one or more partners will
say, “Yes, I can see we would be better off if we did these new things. But how will that affect my compensation? If I get paid for doing other things, I’m not going to give much
attention to these new topics.” As a result of this reaction and reasoning, the firm finds it hard to make progress on important business issues. All too often, because of the
obsolescence or rigidity of the compensation system, conservatism prevails, and the firm finds it hard to implement strategic initiatives. THE SENIORITY SYSTEM Historically, in
most professions, partner compensation has been closely tied to seniority. Some firms do this explicitly, using a lockstep model: Increases are set by a formula in which the only
variable is how long an individual has been a partner. Other firms may say they decide compensation on a number of factors, but seniority nevertheless often dominates the process.
