(I have analyzed compensation results for nu­ merous firms, and more often than not the weight statistically given to seniority is much higher than generally acknowledged or
intended.) There are two ways to justify a seniority-based system: First, the senior partners’ past efforts have contributed to the firm’s current profitability, and second, their
greater experience makes them more valuable to the firm now. Both are testable propositions, however, and should not be assum ed to be true. Some partners’ past contribu­ tions may
long ago have ceased to benefit the firm, and the incremen­ tal value of extra years may be slight. Moreover, past contributions and greater experience are two quite distinct
rationales. The former is an “equity” claim, with equity own­ ership having been built up by past contributions, while the latter asserts the greater current worth of a senior
partner. The latter, if adequately demonstrated, is more readily acceptable to younger part­ ners. The equity interpretation is harder. In a corporation, equity is built by making
contributions to support certain fixed financial assets. In a professional firm, equity contributions primarily mean building up the assets of goodwill, skill, and reputation. In a
competitive, trans­ The Art of Partner Compensation 257 actional marketplace, these assets depreciate rapidly, and claims for “equity returns” are less valid. Perhaps the greatest
benefit of the seniority system is that, by de­ emphasizing year-to-year performance, it avoids the whole problem of trying to weight the various forms of performance. It thus has
the virtue of being easy to administer—as we shall see, an important con­ sideration. Its most commonly cited weakness is that, in failing to reward superior professionals, the
firm risks losing these productive people. In a competitive environment, in which lateral moves of part­ ners are commonplace and younger professionals are less willing to wait for
(increasingly uncertain) future rewards, the danger is partic­ ularly acute. While this may be the most visible problem of the seniority system, it is not the most important. Far
more significant, in my experience, is the fact that the system fails to recognize and reward differences in performance among partners of equivalent tenure (at all levels) and
thus creates an environment that can be extremely discouraging to a number of partners. “Why,” they ask, “should I strive for outstanding performance, when such efforts are neither
rewarded nor even ac­ knowledged?” Such reactions are particularly likely in firms in which, because departures from the seniority system are avoided, poor per­ formance is not
confronted. In the world of professional services, there is a fine line between the good and the excellent. It is, however, upon such distinctions that reputations and profits are
built. Once partners stop striving for ex­ cellence and settle for competence, the firm has entered a period of inevitable decline. In spite of the problems of the lockstep system,
some of the most prestigious and successful professional firms continue to use it. Such firms assert that by avoiding discussions of partners’ relative contri­ butions, they
preserve collegiality and can focus attention externally, on winning and serving clients, rather than internally, on intrafirm politics. Instead of financial incentives, these
firms depend on such mechanisms as firm culture and “social control” to motivate partners to work at their peak and to accept various roles in promoting the long-run health of the
firm. If a partner’s slice of the pie is predeter­ mined, all that remains is an incentive to work to increase the size of the pie—a welcome coincidence of individual and firm
interests. 258 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm Lockstep systems appear to have survived mostly among firms that have not suffered declines in overall profitability.
When there is more than enough to compensate everyone well, there is less pressure to compare and evaluate individuals. Few firms, however, have the twin blessings of a bountiful
environment and a homogeneous group of bright workaholics. PERFORMANCE-BASED COMPENSATION As many firms have discovered, the path to a performance-based compensation system is
fraught with difficulties. Not the least of these is a general discomfort about assessing each partner’s perfor­ mance. Partners, it is felt, should deal with each other as peers;
per­ formance appraisals are something one engages in with employees, not with those who are, in a real sense, owners. I believe this view is misguided. As the manager of a
successful professional service firm observed to me: You have to be tougher on partners than nonpartners. If you believe that partners’ performance is more critical to the firm
than juniors’, then you must hold the partners at least as accountable. Most firms have elaborate performance appraisal and reward systems for their young professionals. Why not
for partners? To believe that all partners can be trusted to perform well forever without being held accountable flies in the face of reality, particularly in a large firm. And if
you are overpaying one partner, it comes straight out of the pocket of another partner, and therefore it is not to be treated lightly. Even firms attempting a performance-oriented
compensation system often try to minimize its explicit appraisal aspects. This is a serious mistake. Once one departs from a strict lockstep system, performance assessment and
compensation decisions are inextricably intertwined: They are two sides of the same coin. The issue is not whether perfor­ mance appraisals can be avoided— they cannot — but
whether they are done thoroughly or superficially. MEASUREMENTS AND JUDGMENTS In order to avoid “subjective” assessments of partners’ work, some firms divide partnership profits
solely according to measurable crite­ ria: business origination, hours billed, total hours or dollars super­ The Art of Partner Compensation 259 vised, percentage of time or
dollars written off or uncollected, and so on. Even more extreme, some firms attempt what might be termed a “profit center” approach, whereby all expenses are allocated among the
partners, creating a “profit and loss” statement for each partner, compensation awards being made accordingly. Such methods almost always lead to the sacrifice of mutual coop­
eration among partners and fail to recognize that many important contributions can’t be measured. Consider the partner who is dili­ gent in referring business to other partners at
a cost to his own billable-hours total. What of the partner who spends time training juniors? Or the partner who solves troublesome administrative problems? As sophisticated as
accounting methods have become, no system can successfully capture and encourage all of the kinds of be­ havior required. Measurement-oriented (or “formula” ) approaches also work
against the efficient delivery of professional services. Part­ ners who are too busy or overqualified should pass on work to oth­ ers, using younger partners or associates where
appropriate— but if numbers are all that count, there are real reasons to hoard work rather than delegate it. Measurements are inherently short-term oriented. How do you ac­ count
for the partner who develops a new practice area that will add to firm profits for years to come, or who established the firm’s strong reputation in certain types of matters, or
who strengthens the firm by being an excellent coach? Each has contributed more than will show up in this year’s numbers. Whenever compensation is based too heavily on current
contributions, investments in the firm’s future will suffer. Partners will strive to “look good” today. Yet as the profes­ sions become more competitive, the future must be planned
for, in­ vested in, and worried about. Clients are less loyal, and time and effort must be spent in developing new specialties and penetrating new industries and geographic
areas—at the expense of today’s billable hours and origination credits. It follows that, like most important decisions in a professional ser­ vice firm, decisions about
compensation must result from a judgment process, not a measurement process (although, to be sure, judgments should be formed with knowledge of whatever statistics are avail­
able). The ways to improve a measurement system are usually obvi­ ous. How does one improve a judgment system? 260 M anag in g th e P rofessional S ervice F irm THE CHARACTERISTICS
OF A JUDGMENT SYSTEM In systems involving judgments there are always winners and losers. When complex trade-offs are made, someone inevitably disagrees with the results. (One
managing partner asserts that “you know you’ve got a good set of compensation decisions when everybody feels a little hard done by.” ) What is more, no system is perfect: In any
judgmental process, errors will occasionally be made. If such is the case, where should one look to make improvements? As in the courts, attention should be directed at the
judgment process, not the decisions. If the process is thorough, unbiased, and equita­ ble—and is perceived to be so— then good judgments will result and, just as important, be
accepted. Using the judicial metaphor, we can identify a number of essential characteristics: • If the people being judged do not trust the judges, the system won’t work. • The
laws governing the decision must be consistent and well un­ derstood. • Judgments should not be made until a sincere effort has been made to collect all pertinent information, and
the defense has been allowed to make its case. • Judgments that are explained are more readily understood and accepted than those that are not. With these propositions as a
starting point, how does one run an effective compensation-setting process? SELECTING THE JUDGES In firms ruled by their founding partners or some other group of ac­ knowledged
leaders, there seem to be few fights over compensation. Pie-splitting disputes often follow on the heels of governance disputes. As one managing partner puts it, “A partner’s
satisfaction with his compensation and that of others largely depends on his perception of the legitimacy and integrity of the group deciding compensation.” Problems arise
particularly when there is confusion over the respec­ tive roles of the executive and compensation committees. The execu­ tive committee of the firm must play an important role in
setting compensation. Its members are, after all, most likely to know about The Ar t of P a r t n e r Compensation 261 every partner’s activities. But theirs should not be the sole
voices. The credibility of the committee is much enhanced, I have learned, when the compensation committee has both representation from the exec­ utive as well as additional
compensation committee members elected or appointed for the sole purpose of providing for “checks and bal­ ances” on the (already considerable) power of the executive. These
“supplemental members” of the compensation committee should be chosen for objectivity, fairness, diligence, trustworthiness, and com­ mitment to the firm as an institution. In
order to select wise, virtuous, and objective judges, some firms choose compensation committee members from the ranks of senior partners—those already receiving the maximum share
of profits al­ lowed. This works well only as long as these partners continue to share the same values and sense of direction as the rest of the firm; once their values differ,
they will lose trust. Other firms use an elec­ toral process in an effort to ensure legitimacy, but this is no panacea: In a firm divided over values and direction, no judiciary,
elected or appointed, will ever be fully trusted. Strategy, governance, and com­ pensation are inextricably intertwined, and lack of consensus in any one spills over into the
others. Compensation decisions need to be made in an atmosphere free of politicking, lobbying, and sectional interests. My research has con­ vinced me that a compensation committee
should be small: three to five partners is ideal, seven may be tolerable. Tough compensation decisions can be made by democratically elected judges, but not through the direct
democracy of open debate among all of the firm’s competing factions. Voting and compromise (common practices in large committees) do not tend to produce fairness in results. A
small group must decide. A larger oversight group (say, for example, a board of partners) can accept or reject, but if it rejects, it should send back the entire set of decisions,
rather than tinkering with a few. SETTING CRITERIA An inevitable part of being a judge is interpreting conflicting laws and precedents, but there must be laws. The rules by which
partners are appraised—the varying forms of contribution to the firms’ success that will be recognized and their order of importance—must be clear. It is neither fair nor sensible
to evaluate performance against criteria that are ambiguous or change without notice. A written statement of 262 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm compensation policy,
including a detailed description of the information-collecting process, should be updated and circulated ev­ ery year. However, in contrast to what seems a widely held view, the
com­ mittee need not give different criteria the same weight in every part­ ner’s case. Indeed, I would argue, it cannot. As professional firms mature, individuals and groups
contribute in different ways. One group may be looked to specifically for generating business; another to specialize in a new area in which billable hours and revenues are small in
the short term; another may act as a service department to the rest of the firm. Looked at another way, the form of contributions can be expected to change with time, with, for
example, more emphasis on billable hours earlier in a partner’s career and more on business get­ ting or management later on. In such an environment, a rigid formula— “hours count
60 percent, new business 30 percent, and profitability 10 percent”— is unwork­ able. The firm may believe that business development and billable hours are more important than
development of associates and should indicate that, but it would be a mistake to apply the rule uniformly—no one would bother with associate development. What is required is a
process of “management by objectives,” whereby each individual, in consultation with the executive committee, agrees to a set of objectives for the forthcoming year, and is
assessed accordingly. This approach clarifies what is expected and, by forcing each partner (and hence the firm) to contemplate goals, encourages active planning rather than op­
portunistic, reactive behavior. In a professional world that increasingly requires strategic thinking, this is no small thing. The management-by-objectives approach also allows the
compen­ sation committee to evaluate every activity. If a partner is responsible for recruiting, then his or her performance can be evaluated in that context. If a branch manager
devotes a lot of time to managerial du­ ties, then the evaluation depends on how well those duties were exe­ cuted. In this way, a firm can avoid “position pay,” that is,
increasing compensation to reflect a job title. A manager’s job is to make others productive and the firm profitable. If he or she succeeds, then he or she should be rewarded
handsomely; if not, the reward should not be automatic. (Incidentally, one of my guiding principles is that any pro­ fessional firm paying its managers more than its top producers
is in trouble. Top producers shouldn’t be attempting to become managers The Ar t of Pa r t ne r Compensation 263 to increase their pay and status. Glory, and dollars, should always
flow to those who excel at client work.) Compensation adjustments should be based on relative im prove­ ments in performance, not on absolute levels. A partner whose clients were
billed $2.3 million this year, down from $2.9 million the year before, probably deserves less of a raise (if any) than one whose clients were billed $1.5 million, up from $700,000.
To do otherwise would encourage “coasting.” While this may seem obvious, in numerous firms I have studied, a partner with high billings is highly rewarded, regardless of changes
from the previous year. (In part, this happens because compensation committees are flooded with numbers and thus fail to analyze past years’ statistics thoroughly.) Finally, it is
essential to note that in any firm, an inflexible compen­ sation structure is likely to become moribund over time. In one era, business getting may be particularly important; in
another, the prior­ ity may be improving the profitability of the firm’s existing work. As the partnership’s strategy changes, so should the weighting of perfor­ mance criteria. As
long as the changes are announced and discussed before they are implemented, reevaluation is to be commended rather than avoided. GOOD JUDGMENTS ARE INFORMED JUDGMENTS One of the
most common complaints about judgment systems is that the judges are incapable of arriving at an equitable decision because “they just don’t have the facts” or they misinterpret
those they do have. In compensation systems, this is often a valid cause for com­ plaint—and certainly the single greatest cause of mistrust of judges. Fortunately it is easily
addressed. The compensation committee must be vigorous in collecting as much information as it can, from as many sources as it can, seeking not only the “hard,” measurable facts
(which frequently are less hard than they appear) but qualitative descriptions as well: what each partner has accomplished during the year, what help he has provided to other
partners, how useful he has been as a coach, and so on. The committee should not be afraid to solicit opin­ ions, so long as they are treated as such. There are a number of ways to
accomplish this. First, send every partner a summary of his or her statistics and invite comment on any possibilities for misinterpretation. What should the committee mem­ bers
know about that partner’s significant triumphs and regrets? 264 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm While face-to-face meetings between partners and members of the
compensation committee are not unusual, many firms do this only on the individual’s initiative or target those in trouble. Such meetings should not be so restricted: The committee
should conscientiously ensure that every partner meets with one of its members. Not only can partners provide explanations, they can also reflect on the past year, discuss what
they had set out to do and frequently adjust plans for the coming year. Among firms that adopt this practice, I never fail to hear praise for it. Another important source of
information on a partner’s perfor­ mance is the opinions of other partners. In a small, homogeneous firm, where partners practice in similar areas with similar types of clients,
the compensation committee can easily assess all partners accurately. However, in a large multidepartmental or multisite firm, it is not sur­ prising that partners worry that the
small group of committee mem­ bers may not be qualified to judge every partner’s contributions. The greater the distance between the judges and the judged, the less trust and
confidence exists. Certainly the assessments of departmental and branch office heads should be solicited; this is a common practice. Yet judgment by in­ formed peers can be far
more extensive. At a number of well-run firms I have studied, the committee invites, either by memo or in interview, all partners to answer the following: “With which other
partners have you had professional contact in the last year? For each, based on your involvement, how would you rate his or her performance and contri­ bution to the firm ? In what
ways does he or she excel ? In what ways that we may not otherwise know about has he or she contributed to the firm’s success? For what should he or she be complimented? If you
could encourage this person to do one thing differently, what would it be?” This approach may be daunting to firms that have never tried it, but it gives the judges an accurate
reading of how a partner is perceived by his or her peers and it uncovers essential information, favorable and unfavorable. Knowing that all opinions will be treated as
confidential in the committee and that no one opinion will be accepted without cross-checking, partners are likely to offer sincere opinions on the merits, strengths, and
weaknesses of others. It is a time-consuming process, but well worth the cost. The Art of Partner Compensation 265 ARRIVING AT DECISIONS Equity requires that, whatever a firm’s
rules are, they need to be ap­ plied in a consistent manner throughout the firm. This is often more difficult to accomplish than it would seem. In a mid-sized firm of, say, thirty
partners, a compensation committee may be faced with a spreadsheet with ten to fifteen columns of data (origination, hours, etc.) for each partner, and must somehow absorb all of
this data to arrive at thirty decisions that reflect consistent treatment of each of the factors of interest. In my research and consulting experience, I have found that many firm
committees will attempt to process this vast amount of data in a very “impressionistic” way, attempting to absorb simultaneously the confusion of messages contained in hundreds (if
not thousands) of numbers, in addition to trying to bear in mind important qualitative considerations. Even with the best of intentions, this rarely results in complete consistency
or an observable logic in the overall set of deci­ sions. Because of the unstructured approach taken to the analysis of the information, it also tends to be more time consuming
than it needs to be. Decisions of this importance and complexity cry out for a more formal analytical approach. In fact, quantitative tools are available to analyze such data. (See
Chapter 24, Patterns in Partner Compensation.) Many firms state that, in arriving at compensation decisions, they consider more than a single year’s performance and reward superior
performance over a period of time. However, it has been my experience that, because of the unstructured decision-making process, few firms in fact reexamine past performance
statistics and rely instead on what is often an im­ perfect, impressionistic memory of previous years’ performance. It should be stressed that a formal approach to analyzing the
measurable aspects of performance does not preclude the application of impor­ tant qualitative judgments. It merely ensures that this is done in a conscious, consistent manner.
EXPLAINING THE DECISIONS Having gone through this thorough performance-appraisal process, the compensation committee would be foolish not to let the partners know how they fared.
To conclude with the simple announcement of each partner’s take is to invite discontent. Feedback must be given and 266 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm decisions must
be explained (preserving, of course, the confidentiality of specific opinions expressed to and within the committee). This cannot be overemphasized: If the reasoning behind a
judgment is explained, it is more likely to be accepted. Moreover, feedback en­ courages excellence. Even where compensation awards are accepted as equitable, a natural follow-up
question is, “What do I have to do to do better next year?” At firms that provide no feedback, partners are left to guess at— and, possibly misinterpret—the compensation com­
mittee’s intended message. DISCLOSURE Despite what is becoming common practice, I believe disclosure of every partner’s compensation to all other partners has as many risks as
benefits. It is understandable that firms choose to do this: These are, after all, partnerships of owners, in which democracy and collegiality are highly valued. Yet if everyone’s
compensation is disclosed, the temptation to compare is well nigh irresistible. And this game, as ev­ eryone readily concedes, is destructive. Andrew Grove, in his book High Output
M anagement, 1 observes that if people are concerned about their absolute level of compensation, then they can be satisfied. However, if their focus is on relative standing, then
they can never be satisfied. Disclosure certainly discourages the cooperative behavior required in most professional practice. Opportunities for misunderstandings and resentment
are high. The process by which qualitative judgments were reached is hard to explain simply, yet if only measurable data were disclosed, partners might interpret decisions solely
in those terms. Another difficulty is that justifications are frequently sought not only about oneself but about others— “Why did he get more than I?”— and this might require
disclosing the personal circumstances of others or opinions given by third parties. Disclosure also makes it difficult to implement the hardest deci­ sions— dealing with the
less-than-productive partner or one with per­ sonal problems. Compensation awards can become symbolic of status, of a place in the pecking order. Thus, reductions in compen­ sation
affect the partner’s public image— an unnecessary compound­ ing of punishments. Owners can be kept informed without knowing everything. A sum­ The Art of P a r t n e r Compensation
267 mary, aggregated by broad age groupings, specialty, or some other category, can give partners a full understanding of the range and dis­ tribution of compensation and where
they stand within it. (See Chap­ ter 24 for one method of doing this.) Clamors for disclosure are themselves symbolic: What is really be­ ing sought is reassurance that the judges
are objective, fair, and con­ sistent. Along these lines, there is one aspect of disclosure that must not be overlooked: How the compensation committee has dealt with itself. Here,
some disclosure must take place, in either aggregate or detailed form. BALANCING PAST AND PRESENT I argued above that seniority, per se, is a poor and increasingly unten­ able
basis for awarding partner compensation. This should not be interpreted to mean that past contributions to the firm’s success should be totally discounted. Indeed, firms must be
very careful not to become too short-term oriented in compensation. One of the most common misunderstandings I have found among professional firms is a belief that the alternative
to a seniority-based system has to be a cut-throat “last year’s performance only” approach. This is an overreaction. In the professions, superior performance is evident only over
an extended period of time, and should be so ap­ praised. A given year’s compensation decision should be seen as one of a series, not as a game to be won or lost each year, with no
view to past or future. Rapid changes in anyone’s compensation, except where there is a clear consensus that they are merited, are extremely disrup­ tive—as are, at the other
extreme, fine distinctions made on the basis of small differences in a single year’s performance. One way to balance past and present is to think of compensation awards as a
smoothed, moving average of performance, updated ev­ ery year as new evidence comes in. In order to accomplish this, a firm may choose to make compensation decisions on the basis
of statistics covering a three-year period rather than a single year’s time. Each year the three-year cumulative totals for each partner are updated by add­ ing in the most recent
year’s results and dropping those from four years ago. Thus, a good year will continue to show up in the data for an extended period of time, but not forever. Similarly, the impact
of one good (or bad) year will be dampened when added in with four average years. If performance improves each year, the partner will 268 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F
irm have a gradually rising share. If it consistently declines, so will his share. (Incidentally, this device thus deals naturally with the gradually retiring partner.) A second
device—one gaining favor among the professions—is what I have come to call the “two-pool system, in which some large percentage of the profits is distributed (prospectively) based
upon long-term considerations, while a smaller pool (say, 5 or 15 percent) is distributed (retrospectively) in recognition of outstanding contri­ butions in the current year. These
special awards are clearly outside the long-term compensation structure, so that a single year’s “bonus” does not become part of the recipient’s longer-term expectations.
COMPENSATION AND STRATEGY In spite of the tactical and pragmatic advice offered above, there is ultimately only one test of a compensation system: whether or not it encourages the
full range of behavior needed for the firm’s success. If partners are spending their time wisely and energetically on things that benefit not only themselves but also the firm,
then the system is working. If an individual’s best interests don’t coincide with the firm’s, the system needs an overhaul. To apply this acid test, one first has to understand
what makes the firm succeed. What are its best interests? As many firms have discovered, this requires careful thought. Com­ pensation decisions cannot be made in a vacuum: They
are an integral part of what defines the firm. Sorting out these complexities is an art, and is likely to remain so. CHAPTER 24 PATTERNS IN PARTNER COMPENSATION It is remarkable
how frequently professional firm compensation sys­ tems fail to accomplish a simple goal— motivating partners to focus on those aspects of performance that will make the firm
successful. The problem is not that the firm’s compensation committee neces­ sarily rewards the wrong things (although some do that). The issue is that the typical partner often
doesn’t know what is being rewarded, or doesn’t believe what is said by the compensation committee about what has been rewarded. Official declarations of policy don’t solve the
problem. Most firms have a statement of compensation principles of the form “Among the numerous factors taken into account are . . .” (followed by a laundry list of quantitative
and qualitative performance indicators). These declarations are uniformly ambiguous and rarely meet the partners’ need to know what factors were actually used and with what
weights. It is perhaps a sad fact, but nonetheless true, that most partners are not prepared to take on faith that the compensation committee has done what it says it has done.
When it comes to compensation, issues of trust, credibility, and confidence abound in professional firms. This is a serious business issue. If the partners misperceive what is
being rewarded, then they will focus their attention and efforts only on the 269 270 M an aging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm things they think are rewarded, and fail to focus
on other important performance areas that will affect the success of the firm. So how can the compensation committee convincingly communi­ cate what it has done? Simple disclosure
of compensation results alone will not do the job. Even if I know what each and every partner in my firm made this year, it is not a simple task for me to deduce what has been
rewarded unless I am intimately familiar with each and every partner’s performance. This is difficult in a small firm, and impossible in a large firm. Even if, as a partner, I am
given a spreadsheet (or, more likely, a thick, bound document) containing all the information used by the committee, it will be difficult to detect patterns in the numbers by
staring at voluminous columns of data. What is needed is an approach that demonstrates unequivocally what has been rewarded, clearly reveals how much reliance has been placed on
quantitative factors, and how much on qualitative factors, and yet can preserve (where necessary) the confidentiality of specific individual partner data. Fortunately, such an
approach exists— a “Compensation Commit­ tee Report” that makes use of graphs and some basic statistics. To illustrate the approach, let’s examine a fictional firm of thirty-two
partners that collects quantitative (descriptive) data on its partners in six areas: a. Age (an indicator of seniority) b. Personal billing rate c. “Grade” for contribution to
business development d. Total dollars billed as client partner e. Percentage of standard fees billed and collected (“realization rate” ) f. Personal billable hours Of course,
numerous other qualitative factors are taken into account by the committee of our fictional firm, but it is only for these factors that there is quantitative data. With this
information in hand, the committee goes off into its deliberations and, using its best judgment, develops a schedule of “points” (or profit shares) for each partner. The committee
then issues a report showing the graphs illustrated here. We, along with the partners in our fictional firm, will examine them one at a time. Patterns in P a r t n e r Compensation
271 Figure 24-1 shows the relationship between points (profit share) and age. (On this, as on all of the graphs, each “dot” represents an individual partner.) Did seniority play a
role in the committee’s deci­ sions? As any reader can see from the graph, there is a general rising trend—older partners tended, on average, to get more points. How­ ever, it can
also be seen that there is a significant degree of “scatter.” This factor was not treated by the committee in a formulaic way. A partner who cares to examine the evidence carefully
might note that the “seniority effect” (the upwards trend) is quite marked between the ages of, say 35 and 41, but after that age there is no clear pattern. What the committee has
appeared to do is give attention to seniority in the first few years of partnership, but rely on other (performance?) factors after that. Is this pattern appropriate? That’s for
the committee and the part­ nership to decide, according to their compensation philosophy. How­ ever, by showing the graph, the partners can at least see what has been done. The
statistic at the top of the graph is a measure of the strength of the relationship, that is, how tight a fit can be seen between the two factors (points and age). A figure close to
0 percent would mean that there is no observable relationship between the two factors. A figure close to 100 percent means that the two factors tend to be highly correlated. The
specific number (known formally as the “R-squared statistic” and a standard feature in most spreadsheet programs) can be used to answer the question, “How much of the variation in
one factor (e.g., points) can be ”explained“ by the other factor (e.g., age)?” In this case the answer is 39 percent, which means that age seems to “explain” 39 percent of all
differences in point holdings, leaving 61 percent to be explained by other factors. This may overstate the case. It could be that what’s really going on is that (say) it is
billings that really drives point holdings and since older partners have higher bill­ ings, the “age (or experience) effect” is deceptive. Fortunately, we have more than one graph,
and can test that hypothesis. We can state with confidence that the “age effect” is not more than 39 percent. Of course, this analysis says nothing about the actual reasoning
process used by the compensation committee. In saying that there is a correlation of (up to) 39 percent between age and points, we are say- M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F
irm 272 FIGURE 2 4 -1 Strength of Relationship is 39% o i i I _| 10 20 60 70 Age of Partner FIGURE 2 4 -2 Strength of Relationship is 52% 45 r 40 o £ w c o Q_ _I _J __________
I__________ I__________ l_ 50 100 150 200 300 250 Partner's Personal Billing Rate FIGURE 2 4 -3 Strength of Relationship is 28% r 40 45 IT 35 - 05 6 30 - | 25 - 20 ■ ■ - 1 15 - £
io 5 - o L 1 2 3 4 "Grade" for Contribution to Business Development 350 Patterns in Partner Compensation 273 FIG URE 2 4 - 4 FIG U RE 2 4 - 5 Strength of Relationship is 8% 45 40 ■
■ 0) 35 (C 30 sz (/) ■ ■ 25 _ o w 0. c *o Q_ ■ h ■ ■ ■ 20 - ■ ■ ■ ■ : 15 — ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ 10 5 n 88 i i 90 92 i 94 I 98 100 J _________ I_________ i_________ I_______ 500 1000
1500 2000 2500 3000 96 Percentage of Standard Fees Collected FIG URE 2 4 - 6 Strength of Relationship is 0% 45 40 CD CO -C CO o CL 0. " 30 ■ 25 20 - w 15 c 'o . 35 ■ - " ■ ■ ■ ■ ■■
" ■ 10 5 n Partner's Personal Billable Hours 274 M anaging th e P rofessional S ervice F irm ing that the committee has acted as if the weight given to age was this amount. We are
not analyzing their decision process, but the conse­ quences of their decisions. We can say nothing about their decisions on individual partners, but we can say a great deal about
the trends, generalizations, and patterns that emerge from their decisions. Next, we turn to the partner’s personal billing rate (Figure 2 4 -2 ). Again, readers can draw their own
conclusions. I see a clear trend, with a reasonable degree of scatter. Clearly, high-rate partners in our fictional firm tend to receive more points. Is it appropriate that billing
rate be so correlated with point hold­ ings? Again, that’s for the firm to decide. Our purpose here is sim­ ple—to disclose what has been done. However, if the firm sets its
partners’ billing rates by the market (i.e., individual billing rates re­ flect the value of the partner in the marketplace) then it is entirely appropriate that high personal
billing rates should be reflected in higher point holdings—the most valuable professionals are being re­ warded more highly. Figure 2 4 -2 suggests that billing rates “explain” 52
percent of the differences in points. However, we must be careful, since it is probable that older partners also have higher billing rates and there is therefore some “overlap”
going on. For this reason, we cannot add together the 39 percent from the age graph and the 52 percent from the rate graph. Fortunately, there is a method for dealing with this. In
most spread­ sheet packages there is another statistic (called “multiple regression” ) which will eliminate overlap and tell us how much of the differences in points can be
explained by the two factors of age and rate taken to­ gether, without double counting. In this case, the answer it gives is 59 percent, meaning that after eliminating overlaps,
age and billing rate together can “explain” a total of 59 percent of the differences in point holdings. One way of interpreting this is to say that if age alone can account for 39
percent of differences in point holdings, then adding in billing rate can explain an additional 20 percent (59 minus 39) of the differences. Let’s turn to “contributions to
business development” (Figure 2 4 - 3 ). This is a “quasi” quantitative factor. Our fictional firm collects information on each partner’s business development efforts and re­ sults
and assigns a grade for their overall contribution, on a scale of 2 through 5, with 5 being the highest grade. (They intended to use a 1 to 5 scale, but in practice never assign a
1.) Patterns in P a r t n e r Compensation 275 As can be seen, there is also a rising trend here. On average, a higher “score” for business development will result in higher
points. As al­ ways, we must look not only at the trend but the amount of scatter around the trend. There is a significant amount of scatter, revealing that the business
development grade influenced compensation, but did not determine it. By itself, it appears to “explain” 28 percent of differences in points. As before, we must be careful of
overlaps. It is possible that highbilling-rate partners are also the best at business development. The “multiple regression” statistic referred to above can be applied again and,
this time, reveals that taking the three factors of age, billing rate, and grade for business development into account simultaneously will “explain” a total of 74 percent of all
