let the practice (or partner) figure out the best mixture of margin, productivity, and leverage necessary to achieve this goal. This simple prescription is not commonly followed in
professional firms today. Few use net profit per partner as their main method for regular reporting of practice economics. Yet it is only by understand­ ing the profit per partner
of different practices, services (and even engagements) that the firm can manage its “equity investments” (part­ ner time) wisely. Profitability: Health and Hygiene 33 HEALTH AND
HYGIENE The reason so many firms have control systems that emphasize only parts of the profitability formula is that their control systems are de­ signed to focus on short-term
profitability (what I term “hygiene” ), and ignore the issue of “health” (i.e., increasing the fundamental profit potential of the organization). To test this for your firm, I
offer a quiz, one you may wish to cir­ culate among your partners. Shown in Figure 3 -2 is a list of possible profitability improvement tactics for a professional service firm. If
your firm is like many others, you’ll discover something like this: The list of quick-impact profitability improvement tactics is very dif­ ferent from your list of permanent-
impact tactics. And you probably score your firm best on the short-run tactics, and least well on the permanent improvement tactics. What this reveals is that improving
profitability has two distinct management components. Some elements (predominantly short-run “hygiene” issues) get overmanaged, and many (long-run “health” is­ sues) are
undermanaged. To see which is which, let’s discuss each of the items in our original profit formula. MANAGING MARGINS Many professional firms, in comparing the profitability of
different practices, place particular emphasis on the margins achieved. This is always misleading and often dangerous. In my experience, many lowmargin practices are more
profitable, on a profit-per-partner basis, than higher margin practices with low leverage because of the effec­ tive use of leverage. This does not mean that high leverage is
always good, or always appropriate. But it does mean that, in the month-tomonth control of the firm, submeasures like margin are insufficient indicators of profitability. There is
a second reason to avoid placing too much stress on mar­ gins in managing a practice: The margin that a practice achieves is mostly a consequence of what is accomplished with
productivity and leverage. Consider, for example, a practice that has high productivity (i.e., high revenue per person). By definition, this means it will have a low number of
people per dollar of revenue. Since the overwhelming 34 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm FIGURE 3 - 2 A Profitability Quiz You are asked to rate the items on this list in
three ways. First rank the items from 1 to 19 according to which action will have the quickest impact on profitability. Then rank the items according to which will have the most
permanent, long-lasting impact on profitability. Finally, for each item, rank your firm's performance on a scale of 1 to 5 (1=we've really got this one under control, 2=we do well
on this, 3=we need to improve, 4=we're weak at this, 5=we're not working on this). Rank for Quick Impact Rank for Permanent Impact Rank for Performance a Justify higher fees
(specialize, innovate, add more value) b Increase utilization (billable hours per person) c Find ways to use juniors more in the delivery of services d Drop unprofitable services e
Drop unprofitable clients f Improve speed of billing 9 h Improve speed of collections Use marketing to get "better" work, not just more work i Invest in new (higher value) services
j Develop methodologies to eliminate duplication of effort on engagements k Help engagement leaders improve project management skills and performance I Speed up skill-building
process in staff m Make greater use of paraprofessionals n Reduce space and equipment costs 0 Reduce support staff costs P Deal with underperformers (partners) q Deal with
underperformers (non-partners) r Other (specify) s Other (specify) proportion of costs in a professional practice is related to the number of people on staff, costs will be low and
margins good. Margins will have been automatically improved through productivity improve­ ment. Some factors affecting margins are distinct from productivity and leverage— for
example, space costs, equipment, and the like. These costs are hygiene factors. It is critical to avoid waste: we must not have P r o f i t a b i l i t y : Health and Hygiene 35
too much excess space, too many computers, too many support staff. But once the “hygienic level” is achieved, it would be unwise to pursue profit improvement by pushing for even
less space, even fewer com­ puters, even less support staff. Beyond the hygiene level, such cost cutting would improve short-term profits, but would not represent a smart long-term
profitability improvement strategy (i.e., would not improve the health of the organization). Margin management is shortrun management. MANAGING PRODUCTIVITY As Figure 3 -3 shows, a
firm’s productivity is the simple multiplication of its utilization times the average (realized) fee per hour. Again, we need to make the distinction between hygiene and health. A
firm’s average chargeability (or utilization), which most firms appropriately monitor very carefully, is predominantly a short-run issue. Each year, this is one of the first things
the firm must take care of, like good hygiene. If the firm is below a “reasonable” chargeability, there is no point talking about long-run strategy. However, once a “target”
chargeability is attained, we are unlikely to raise the firm’s long-run profit per partner by looking for year-onyear increases in utilization. While firms could make more money by
having people work Sundays, it is not the most creative of profitimprovement strategies. The real challenge is to figure out how to make more money without having to work so hard!
If they are to achieve high productivity, firms must raise their net realized fee per hour (or value). A firm that can do this is being more than hygienic, it is building the
fundamental health of the business. Of course, this means more than just raising the firm’s prices: It means that the firm must do those things (skill-building, specialization, in­
novation, value-added services) that will make clients willing to pay more for the firm’s services. FIGURE 3—3 Productivity Productivity = Fees -------Staff = Fees --------Hours =
Value X Utilization X Hours --------------- Staff 36 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm MANAGING LEVERAGE Returning to our formula, one factor remains for discussion:
leverage. This, like fee levels, is a fundamental “health” issue. Once overheads and utilization are in the hygiene range, only an improvement in fee levels or leverage will change
the basic economics of the business. But what should the right amount of leverage be? The appropriate leverage for any practice is determined by one thing, and one thing alone: the
nature of the services the practice is engaged in. A practice that specializes in cutting-edge, high-client risk (“brain surgery” ) work will inevitably need to be staffed with a
high partner-to-junior ratio: lower level people will not be able to deliver the quality of services required. On the other hand, practices that deal with more procedural
“nonemergency” needs will be inefficient if they do not have high leverage, since high-priced people should not be doing low-value tasks. “Managing” leverage means one thing:
ensuring that the mix of skill levels on a project matches the true skill requirements of the engagement. Unfortunately, this is not often done well. (See Chapter 4, Solving the
Underdelegation Problem.) PROFITABILITY AND GROWTH It is interesting to note that, in the formula for profitability, growth and size do not appear. Of course, it is essential that
professional firms grow in order to motivate and retain the firm’s best staff. Without growth, much of the dynamism of the practice will be lost, and morale will suffer. Having
said this, the question of the relationship between growth and profitability is unclear. Imagine, for example, that a firm successfully grew the practice by 25 percent in a given
year, but grew it in such a way that (a) the mix of business (and hence the realized fee rates) remained the same; and (b) the firm’s method of serving that additional volume of
business used the same staff-to-partner ratio currently existing. In this scenario, the firm would need 25 percent more partners to handle that volume, and if the realization rates
were the same as the firm’s existing busi­ ness, the net profit per partner would remain the same (see Chapter 1 ). Growing by 25 percent and adding 25 percent more partners is not
a bad result but it does not further the goal of improving profit per Pr of i t ab i l i t y: Health and Hygiene 37 partner. To do that , we must break one of the two conditions
im­ posed; either bring in work that has higher fee levels than the firm’s current average, or find ways to service the firm’s work with higher leverage. This is the same
conclusion as that reached before: Only increased fee levels or leverage move the firm forward. All else is hy­ giene. It is the nature of the work brought in, not just its volume,
that contributes to profit health. Yet this is not how most firms control their practice development efforts. Many firms are revenue driven, or “top-line” oriented, taking the view
that “any new business is good business.” This is patently false. A new $100,000 engagement can be very profitable, or be one that loses the firm a lot of money. Yet many firms
reward partners for the volume of fees (top-line) that they bring in, not whether or not they bring in profitable work. In large part, they do this for the very reason we have been
discuss­ ing: the lack of a good profitability reporting system that allows them to know which work is truly profitable and which is not. If you never measure profitability at the
engagement level (or do so with mislead­ ing indicators such as margin or realization alone), it is hard to guide and reward partners’ practice development activities properly. If
prof­ its are to improve, this will only be done by improving how profitably engagements are run: proper staffing, proper delegation, efficient use of people’s time. Project
leaders should be held accountable for en­ gagement success, considering revenues and the costs of resources con­ sumed (including the costs of partner time). The effects of this
have been shown in firm after firm that have begun to examine (either as a special study or as a new method of reporting) the profit per partner-hour of different engagements. It
is quite common for firms to discover that 125 percent of their profits are made from 80 percent of their engagements, and that 20 percent of their engagements lose 25 percent of
their profits. This would not be bad if these were conscious, strategic investment decisions. But, in firm after firm, it is revealed that engagements that “looked profit­ able”
when judged by margin or realization show up as poor invest­ ments when the profit is related to the amount of partner time invested to generate that profit. As a consequence, many
firms cannot “fix underperformers” as a profit improvement tactic because their financial reporting systems do 38 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm not reveal where the
real underperformers (assignments, service lines, clients, or partners) really are. Fixing underperformers can be both a hygiene and health issue. By eliminating loss-making
activities, profits can be improved in the T A B L E 3 -1 Profitability Tactics (In descending order of impact on profit health ONE: RAISE PRICES (i.e., FEE LEVELS) • Earn higher
fees through specialization, innovation, adding more value • Use marketing to get “better” work • Speed up skill-building process in staff • Invest in new (higher-value) services
TWO: LOWER VARIABLE COSTS (DELIVERY COST FOR EACH ENGAGEMENT • Improve engagement management performance • Increase leverage in the delivery of services • Make greater use of
paraprofessionals • Develop methodologies to avoid duplication of effort THREE: FIX UNDERPERFORMERS • Deal with underperformers • Drop unprofitable services • Drop unprofitable
clients FOUR: INCREASE VOLUME • Increase utilization (billable hours per person) FIVE: LOWER OVERHEAD COSTS • Improve speed of billing • Improve speed of collections • Reduce space
and equipment costs • Reduce support staff costs Pr of i t ab i l i t y : Health and Hygiene 39 short-run. In addition, by freeing up resources (particularly partner time) locked
up in low-profit areas, the potential is created to deploy these resources in more productive areas. No one, as a short-run issue, wants to drop unprofitable clients or services,
but if low profitability cannot be fixed through more efficient staffing (i.e., leverage) then working to replace low-profitability work with high-profitability work is critical to
long-run success. PUTTING IT ALL TOGETHER The list of tactics given in Figure 3 -2 (the profitability quiz) can be grouped into five categories, which represent the basic
approaches in improving the profitability of any business (see Table 3 - 1 ). These are (in order of impact on profit health): 1. Raise prices (fee levels) 2. Lower variable
(delivery) costs 3. Fix underperformers 4. Increase volume 5. Lower overhead costs As we have seen, the first two categories are the keys to health, and the middle category
(underperformers) has the potential to be so. The last two categories are hygiene areas which are critical for the short term, but limited in their ability to bring about a
fundamental transforma­ tion in profit potential. Profitability will not come from managing hygiene factors alone: Future profitability depends on health as well— and firms’
methods of measuring, reporting, and managing need to reflect both. CHAPTER 4 SOLVING THE UNDERDELEGATION PROBLEM Like all human beings, professional service firms could be a great
deal healthier if they eliminated their bad habits. This chapter focuses on a single bad habit that reduces profitability, adversely affects motiva­ tion and morale, reduces a
firm’s competitive capabilities, and in ad ­ dition prevents senior professionals from spending more time with clients and investing in the future of the firm. This bad habit is
called systemic underdelegation. Imagine that a questionnaire was sent to each and every profes­ sional in your firm, top-to-bottom, asking the following single ques­ tion: What
percentage of your professional work time is spent doing things that a more junior person could do, if we got organized and trained the junior to handle it w ith q u a lit y ?
(Obviously, do not include in this calculation that work which the clien t insists you perform yourself, since the client must get what he asks for.) Imagine that each person
answered honestly, and the responses were tabulated to calculate the firmwide average. My research shows that, for the typical professional service firm, the firmwide average is
frequently as high as 40 or 50 percent, and 41 42 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm sometimes more. This is equivalent to saying that, of the firm’s entire productive
capacity, 40 or 50 percent is consumed with a higherpriced person performing a lower-value task. Obviously, this is not a wonderful situation. If one examined a manufacturing
company and discovered that, of all the resources used to produce the company’s output, some 40 or 50 percent were more expensive than necessary to achieve the same level of
quality, one would be tempted to use words like “inefficient,” “un­ productive,” “wasteful.” The same words, I believe, can be applied to most firms’ methods of operation. WHY IT’S
A PROBLEM Before addressing why this situation exists, and what can be done about it, we should examine the four primary ways in which this systemic underdelegation hurts the firm:
P R O F IT A B IL IT Y By definition, systemic underdelegation means that the firm has a highcost delivery system: It costs the firm more to do a project than if it used trained
juniors to handle that part of the project they could do with quality. In the short run, this may not hurt the firm: If the clients are willing to pay us higher fees to be
inefficient, why change? There is a reason to change. It is called “competition.” As the pro­ fessions get more competitive, and fee resistance more common, high delivery costs
will lead to marketing problems and a competitive dis­ advantage. There is also a reason to change before fee pressures force it: profitability. If the clients are happy with the
fees, but we staff the project in a high-cost way, we are reducing the amount of profit that can be brought to the bottom line. SK ILL BUILDING By having higher-priced people busy
with lower-value tasks, the firm loses the skill building (development) of the people not delegating and also gets less rapid skill building of juniors. Professional firms do not
sell time (although they often bill that way). Rather, their stock-intrade is skill. Anything that compromises the rate of skill building (which systemic underdelegation does)
hurts the firm. Solving the Under delegation Problem 43 M ORALE, M O TIV A TIO N , SA TISFA C T IO N , AND EXC ITEM EN T If underdelegation exists, that is, if juniors are being
given additional responsibilities less rapidly than they are capable of handling with good training and supervision, the result will be poor morale and motivation. My research
shows that, if left untreated, the lack of chal­ lenging (“growing” ) work will be the single biggest contributor to turnover/retention problems. My research also reveals that if
senior people are spending 50 percent of their time doing what a junior could do, their morale and motivation is also reduced. UN D ERIN V ESTM EN T IN THE FU TU R E Last, but
definitely not least, underdelegation causes senior people to neglect high-value tasks that are of critical importance to the future success of the firm. In firm after firm, I
encounter senior professionals who know the importance of client service, business development, supervision and coaching, methodology-building, and personal devel­ opment. In all
of these cases, however, they report that they are not doing as much as they would like because they are “too busy”—and they are. But too busy doing what? If, with 50 percent of
their time, they are too busy doing things that, with appropriate training, someone at a half or two-thirds their salary could do, it would seem that some bad trade-offs are being
made in the allocation of these valuable people’s time. THE CAUSES OF THE PROBLEM Reduced profitability. Compromised skill building. Lessened morale. Neglect of investment
activities. This is a serious list of negatives. Why, then, is this situation so common? While there clearly are a variety of personal factors at work (“I prefer to do it myself”
or “I have more confidence it will be done correctly if I do it” ), I have learned that a bigger explanation is pro­ vided by the measurement and reward systems of most firms
(hence the name systemic underdelegation). First, an excessive pressure on personal billability (or chargeability) at senior levels can lead to inefficiencies in staffing. If a
partner feels 44 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm that he or she is primarily held accountable for personal billable hours (rather than, say, the profitability of the
engagements that partner is responsible for), then he or she is likely to hoard work rather than be active in looking for operating efficiencies. This will be particularly true,
and is particularly dysfunctional, if the firm is having a weak year. In a weak year the firm would be better served if the partners pushed more work down and spent the time in the
marketplace generating new work, instead of attempting to protect their position by staying busy on work that the underu­ tilized juniors could do and avoiding marketing efforts.
(Yet in var­ ious countries experiencing a recession, this is the exact behavior I have observed.) A second cause derived from the firm’s management systems is that in few firms
are engagement leaders held responsible for seeking out ways to reduce the costs of delivering the engagement. Amazingly, some firms do not track the profitability of their work
engagement by engagement. Even among those who do, the primary measure of engagement-level profitability that most firms use is the realization rate—that is, the percentages of the
standard rates of the personnel used on the engagement that are collected from the client. As critical as this factor is, my research shows that it does not provide an ade­ quate
incentive to look for opportunities to increase leverage (i.e., delegation) on the engagement. When there is no particular incentive for a partner to find ways to increase the
leverage on his or her client project, underdelegation is sure to result. Partners must be held re­ sponsible not only for the revenues they collect on an engagement, but also the
precise costs to the firm that they incur by the way they get the engagement done. A third reason for underdelegation to develop is that there is a reluctance to invest in the
coaching and supervision time necessary to achieve successful delegation. On any single engagement, it will al­ ways be m ore costly, not less, to spend the time to get a junior
in­ volved: It will take a junior longer to do it than doing it yourself, and you’ll have to spend time supervising. Consequently, even though more supervised delegation and
coaching will reduce costs over time, they increase costs in the short run. This is the old Catch-22. Using the junior person “on this one” is more costly because we haven’t previ­
ously trained him or her, so we end up not training the person on this one either. Thus firms tend to underinvest in good coaching, even Solving the Underdelegation Problem 45
though they preach it fervently. The problem is that few firms cur­ rently have any mechanism to track, on a real-time basis, whether or not good coaching (and hence potential
delegation) is being done. Without such a system, short-term thinking and underdelegation re­ sult. A fourth cause is the individual partner’s (understandable?) con­ cern about
what the partner will have to do if he or she does push the work down: pay more attention to marketing, client service, coach­ ing, seeking out and working on truly partner-level
client work. A systematic effort to push down work that rightfully can and should be pushed down will, if successful, result in a need to find replacement activities for the firm’s
partners that truly match their skill and expe­ rience level. Fear that it does not exist, or is less comfortable to pursue than staying chargeable on any available work, is, I
have learned, a prime contributor to the problem. A push on operating efficiencies (better matching of work tasks to appropriate skill levels) will require renewed attention to a
marketing program that focuses on high-value-added new business. It could be argued (and has been by many partners) that in some markets such work does not exist, or cannot be
obtained in sufficient volume to replace the basic work pushed down. This very well may be the case, but this is not an argument to con­ tinue with inefficient staffing. Rather it
suggests that in certain areas of practice the firm may be overpartnered. The appropriate response would be to help such partners find ways to increase their value on the
marketplace, redeploy them, or as a final resort help them find alter­ nate careers. Having high-priced partners doing too much low-value work is a recipe for disaster. SOLVING THE
PROBLEM The diet and exercise program to solve the bad habit of underdelega­ tion is not necessarily a pleasant one. In fact, it is tough. It is designed to make bad habits very
visible when they occur, and to make each partner accountable for eliminating them in his or her practice. There are three essential elements to the program, and some addi­ tional
options. 46 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm ST E P ONE: EN G A G EM EN T-LEVEL P R O F IT A B IL IT Y M E A SU R E S The first essential step is to modify the partner
performance appraisal system to place less emphasis on the partners’ personal efforts (i.e., chargeable hours) and to make partners primarily accountable for the net income per
partner (or net income per partner hour) of each en­ gagement. In most firms, computer records are kept on the revenue attribut­ able to any engagement and the number of hours
worked on that engagement by specified individuals. It is, therefore, a relatively sim­ ple task to calculate, using latest salary and compensation data, the cost to the firm of
the resources consumed in performing the engage­ ment. By considering both revenue and costs, firms will get a better fix on which engagements are truly most profitable, and which
represent opportunities for efficiency improvements through better staffing, in­ creased delegation, and leverage. Once this information system is in place, firms will be in a
position to hold partners accountable for engagement profitability, encourag­ ing them to identify opportunities to improve operating efficiencies on the engagement. ST E P TW O :
TRACKIN G AND REW ARDIN G COACHING A C T IV IT IES To overcome the problem of “deferred maintenance” in the coaching area (and the resulting lack of delegation), firms should
introduce a system whereby all staff on an engagement complete an evaluation form (see Figure 4 - 1 ), rating their engagement experience, at the end of every engagement. These
forms are sent to the managing partner, and the scores accu­ mulated through the year. At year-end, the aggregate score for each partner (i.e., the evaluations of all staff members
on all work super­ vised by that partner) are compared to the aggregate scores for the office (and firm) as a whole. In this way, an encouragement and accountability for
delegation, good engagement management, and skill transfer will be accom­ plished. By establishing a measurable monitoring system, behavior in Solving the Underdelegation 47
Problem FIGURE 4 - 1 Rate Your Engagement Experience Please rate your engagement experience on a scale of 1 (strongly dis­ agree) to 5 (strongly agree) on the following: My work
made good use of my knowledge and ability. This engagement helped me learn and grow. My work was interesting and challenging. When tasks and projects were assigned to me, I
understood thoroughly what was expected of me. When they were assigned, I understood how my tasks fit into the overall objectives for the engagement. Help was available when I
needed to have questions an­ swered. I received PROMPT feedback on my work, good or bad. When I was corrected for something I did or failed to do, it was done in a constructive
way. I received good coaching to help me improve my perfor­ mance. I was kept informed about the things I needed to know to do my job properly. I was actively encouraged to
volunteer new ideas and make suggestions for improvement. I had the freedom to make the necessary decisions to do my work properly. Team meetings were conducted in a way that built
trust and mutual respect. I am proud of the quality of work I did on this engagement. In this engagement we set very high standards for perfor­ mance. I felt that I was a member of
a well-functioning team. 1 1 1 2 2 2 3 3 3 4 4 4 5 5 5 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 5 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 5 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4
5 5 Instructions: To prom ote your honest com m ents, you are not asked to identify you rself on this fo rm . H ow ever, we ask that you send it, in a sealed en velope, to the
practice head's secretary w ho will aggregate your comments with others w ho w orked on this engagement and with other engagements so that we can track our overall perform ance. In
order to encourage response, we ask that you write on the outside o f the sealed envelope your name and project number, so that the practice head's secretary can m onitor what
responses have been received. QUESTIONS FOR CODING PURPOSES: (a) What is the project number of this engagement? (b) What is your level/title? (c) How many hours did you work on
this engagement?__________________ (d) Who was your immediate supervisor on this project? 48 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm this area can be influenced in a way that no
amount of speeches, mis­ sion statements, and training programs can accomplish. ST E P TH REE: THE SCHEDULING P R O C ESS In tackling the issue of staffing efficiency on
engagements, no activity in the office surpasses in importance good management of the sched­ uling process. Once it has been decided how an engagement is to be staffed (who is
assigned, and what portion of the engagement each is scheduled to do), the engagement’s leverage structure is in place. Staffing decisions also clearly play a significant role in
determining the amount (and character) of skill building. Most of the skill building that takes place in the firm’s practice comes from the types of engagements its people are sent
on, and what part of the engagement they are given to per­ form. As we have noted, many studies have shown that motivation, mo­ rale, and ultimately retention are affected by
nothing as much as the pattern of work that the staff is given to perform. Accordingly, the scheduling process is where most of the real managerial decisions in running the
practice are taken. It is the place where the real strategic trade-offs between short-term profitability, client service, skill build­ ing, and retention are made. High-level
attention to this area by practice managers offers a sig­ nificant opportunity to correct the underdelegation problem. Unfor­ tunately, in many firms scheduling is viewed as an
administrative or tactical function, which it is not. It should be the time when powerful practice managers challenge equally powerful partners to defend why they have staffed
their engagement in the way they have; to explain why they really need the people they have requested. Only in the toand-fro of such discussions will the (often hidden)
underdelegation problems be revealed. (For more on this topic, see Chapter 16, On the Importance of Scheduling.) ADDITIONAL TACTICS TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM In addition to the
approaches listed above ( but rarely as a substitute for them), some firms have had success in tackling the underdelega­ tion problem by being more aggressive in raising the fee
rates of the Solving the Underdelegation Problem 49 firm’s more senior or experienced people, setting these billing rates individual by individual, and not by group criteria such
as seniority. In effect, they are constantly testing the value of each of the firm’s senior people in the marketplace. This has a number of positive effects. First, it induces the
firm’s senior people to “stretch” for more higher-value tasks, and not meet their obligations to the firm too easily by remaining billable at rates below their true worth. Second,
by being aggressive on senior rates, the firm addresses the underdelegation issue by causing such people to reflect more carefully on what portion of the work they should per­
form, and what they should pass down. Other firms have used their annual partner performance evaluation system to “challenge” the partners’ use of their time, and to help the
partners set personal growth goals for themselves. The theory behind this is that if the partner has a clear vision of how he or she can “move on” to higher value activities, the
partner will be more willing (even eager) to “pass on” existing activities that can successfully be done by others. If the partner has no “personal strategic plan,” then there will
be a reluctance to delegate the current activities. In some cases, it has been necessary for firm management to “protect” those who delegate until they find replacement activities,
making it less risky for individ­ uals to take on new tasks. In other firms, in order to assist individual partners in achieving operating efficiencies through better delegation,
practice committees have been formed to study the firm’s methodologies and perform an “industrial engineering” study. By closely examining what skill levels are truly required to
perform designated tasks, such studies can pro­ vide ready-made methodologies (and training manuals) for individual partners to use in their delivery of the firm’s services.
CONCLUSION Solving the underdelegation problem is not easy. The problem is, in my experience, endemic to the professions. And the diet requires tak­ ing a fresh look at some
important management systems of the firm. The reader should ask the following questions: • Does underdelegation exist in my firm? • What benefits would accrue if we could eliminate
it, even par­ tially? 50 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm • Can we use some of the approaches described in this chapter? • If not, what else will solve the problem? • What
happens if we do nothing? My experience suggests that most firms will discover not only that they have opportunities in this area, but that the pain of the diet will be more than
outweighed by the benefits flowing from the renewed health and vigor of the organization. PART TWO CLIENT MATTERS CHAPTER 5 THE PRACTICE DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE Say the word
“marketing” to a room full of professionals, and differ­ ent individuals will think of very different things. Some will think, “All you have to do is satisfy your current clients
and business will come.” Others will reply, “A stream of new clients is essential to the health of any firm.” Some will offer the view that “The key is to manage your client
relationships,” while others will reflect that “We need to get out into the community and meet new people.” The truth is that every one of these comments is valid, but none of them
represents the answer by itself. Professional firms must execute a full package of practice development steps covering five main cate­ gories of activity: Broadcasting Courting
Superpleasing Nurturing Listening. None of these categories may be neglected— only the complete pack­ age will work. Broadcasting includes all those activities that generate leads,
enqui­ ries, and opportunities with new clients. By definition, broadcasting activities, which include such things as seminars, articles, newsletters, 53 54 M anaging the P
rofessional Service F irm and speeches, have more than one person in the audience. The firm broadcasts a message to its target market in the hope of generating contacts, enquiries,
and, in some cases, requests for proposals. (A discussion of these tactics is presented in Chapter 11, Attracting New Clients.) Once a specific opportunity with a specific new
prospect emerges, a new activity is called for— courting. The firm is no longer addressing a group of potential buyers, but a single, specific prospect. This activ­ ity is
traditionally called selling and proposing, but such words fail to capture what is truly required. When a client hires a professional, or a professional firm, he or she must make
the decision to enter into a relationship, and the process is best understood as a courtship. (Some ideas on how to do well in this phase are contained in Chapter 10, How Clients
Choose.) Both of the preceding categories describe explicit efforts to win new clients. However, there is great truth in the old adage that there is no more effective practice
development than outstanding “word of mouth.” Accordingly, a major component of practice development is superpleasing existing clients on existing matters. This means much more
than doing outstanding technical work and more than servicing the client in such a way that he or she is just “satisfied.” Effective word of mouth only results when the client is
delighted and eager to work with the individual again. Since good word of mouth has to be earned, firms and individuals must invest in this area. (See Chapter 7, Quality Work
Doesn’t Mean Quality Service, and Chapter 8, A Service Qual­ ity Program.) Paying attention to the client on the current matter is a necessary condition for winning a client’s
future business, but not a sufficient one. Relationships, to remain strong, must be nurtured, and future business must be earned. Clients do not like to be taken for granted, and
they expect their “suppliers” to invest visibly in the relationship to earn future business. They expect firms to invest their own (non­ reimbursed) time in getting to know the
clients’ business, earning fu­ ture business by bringing new ideas, being willing to spend time with the client “off the clock” discussing future issues, and so on. This process
requires a planned program of “marketing to existing clients” (Chapter 9). The fifth and final category needed to round out the practice devel­ The Practice Development Package 55
opment package is listening to the market, otherwise known as “gath­ ering market intelligence.” The better the firm’s understanding of how clients think (and what they’re thinking
about lately), the more effec­ tive it will be able to market itself. Any firm that fails to make this investment will be severely handicapped, having to market itself based upon
what it “guesses” or “assumes” clients want. A firm that is will­ ing to make the investment will easily obtain an in-depth understand­ ing of how clients think, what they want,
and how they choose. All it has to do is to be organized and systematic about going to the horse’s mouth and asking the client, through such devices as client panels, senior
partner visits, and attending client industry meetings to listen (not to talk or sell) (Chapter 6). HOW MUCH TIME FOR EACH? You may want to estimate what percentage of your firm’s
total prac­ tice development effort is spent on each of the five categories. (See Figure 5 -1 ) What would you consider a balanced package? Do you currently overemphasize one or
two areas at the expense of the oth­ ers? You might also reflect on how effectively your firm performs each of the five phases of the practice development effort. What grade would
you give yourself for each of the five? My observation of professional firms in general is that they tend to overinvest their nonbillable practice development time in categories
mentioned first on my list (broadcasting and courting) and, as a rule, underinvest in those activities lower on my list (superpleasing, nur­ turing, and listening). In large part,
I have learned, this is because firms tend to assume that the last three categories all occur “natu­ rally” during the conduct of matters (i.e., on billable time) and hence do not
warrant any extra investment of nonbillable effort. This, in my experience, is an incorrect assumption. Take, for example, listening activities. I may pay close attention to my
clients while working with them, and think that I understand them. However, while working on current matters with clients there is a strong need to stick to the matter at hand and
to focus on getting the job done rather than getting the client to talk about other things. But if I invite the client to dinner or to my offices to talk, not about the current
matter, but about what’s going on in his or her business, I can (and will) learn a great deal that will be useful to my future practice 56 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F
irm FIGURE 5 - 1 Where Does the Time Go? Percent o f non­ billable practice developm ent time spent Evaluation o f how well this is done now (1 = We're terrific at this part o f
