pacity of the firm falls into this category. When the price of staff re­ sources escalates, this situation will become intolerable. Firms will need to devise management approaches
that will ensure that lowervalue work is not being done by higher-priced people except where absolutely necessary. Ensuring productive use of higher priced staff will require that
sub­ stantial management attention is paid to the work assignment func­ tion (that process which decides who works on what engagements and what part of the work they do). In many
firms this aspect of office-level management is relatively neglected, and is dealt with as an administrative function. In a world where, to be productive, every resource must be
put to its highest and best use, scheduling becomes a major management topic. Achieving the goal of more efficient staffing will require firms to invest more in the development of
methodologies (so that the more junior people can handle higher-valued work and produce highervalue output). In the daily press of business, it is often easier for a senior
professional to do a piece of work her- or himself rather than train the junior to handle it. What is more, most firms’ measurement systems place great emphasis on personal
billable hours: This means that there is little incentive for the senior professional to take the time 196 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm out to capture and disseminate
his or her accumulated wisdom to the juniors. Accordingly, possible methodologies do not get developed. IM PRO VE A PPREN TIC ESH IP P R O C ESS Productivity is not just about
performing the same tasks at lower costs. It is also about recouping the higher costs of staff by making them more valuable to clients (and hence being able to collect higher
fees). In a professional firm there are three main ways to improve the skill­ building process. The first has already been discussed: use the work assignment system to expose
juniors early to increasingly stretching client work, and ensure that such work is not “hoarded” by those who are overly practiced at performing this work. The second means of
improving skill building is through formal training programs in key areas of knowledge and skill. While these undoubtedly play a role, most firms have learned that formal training
serves well for knowledge transfer, but is relatively poor in the more important area of skill building. To speed up the acquisition of critical skills, firms must turn to the
third device: better on-the-job coaching and teaching by senior professionals. This responsibility is formally included in the role description of senior professionals at most
professional firms, but it is the rare firm today where it has a high priority in the appraisal and reward systems for senior professionals. To achieve the strategic goal of more
rapid skill building, firms will have to design reward systems that will con­ vince senior professionals that good performance in this area will be rewarded, and poor performance
penalized. (For a method of accom­ plishing this, see Chapter 4, Solving the Underdelegation Problem.) Achieving productivity gains will also require a rethinking of com­ pensation
systems at lower levels. The majority of professional firms make few, if any, performance differentials in their compensation of junior staff. As the costs of staff escalate, it
becomes more important to make distinctions between high-performing and low-performing assets. VALU E EN H ANCEM EN T An additional means by which the high price of staff might be
re­ couped through higher value to clients is “empowering” the individ­ Surviving the People Crisis 197 ual with the tools, methodologies, experience, and accumulated knowledge of
the firm. A good example of this is provided by those accounting firms that provide low-level staff auditors with laptop computers, which contain in storage the entire audit manual
of the firm, together with a quasi “expert” system that allows even the most junior professional to ac­ cess answers to advanced client questions. In addition, the juniors’
computers are compatible with client printers, so that answers to cli­ ent questions and pro-forma calculations can be produced at the client site. Another example is provided by
the professional service firm that uses a nationwide electronic mail system to allow any professional to access the accumulated wisdom and experience of other firm profes­ sionals
anywhere in the country. Value enhancement activities that help junior staff become more valuable to clients need not be “high-tech.” At least one major con­ sulting firm has
attempted to speed up its knowledge transfer activities by capturing on (many) videotapes the senior staff of the firm explain­ ing in detail how to go about performing the various
activities (from client interviewing through data analysis to structuring presentations to maximize client understanding and acceptance) that go toward making a knowledgeable
consultant. Whether low-tech or high-tech, the principle is the same: The more tools that the organization can provide to the staff, the more valuable they can become, and the more
likely the organization is to recoup their high cost. REDUCED NEED ST R A T E G IE S Even with productivity improvements of the sorts described above, it is likely that most
professional firms will end up with a higher cost structure than before. Will clients accept higher fee structures, allow­ ing the firms to sustain their current profitability? The
answer, probably, is that some will and some will not. For critical, frontier-type services (what I have elsewhere described as brains or expertise services), clients will probably
continue to be rel­ atively fee-insensitive. However, the majority of professional services are outside this category. For more familiar (or well-defined) issues, 198 M anaging the
P rofessional S ervice F irM clients have a broader choice of potential suppliers, and fee consider­ ations play a greater role in their selection of a professional firm. As the
cost of productive human resources escalates, it will become essential that the uses to which those resources are put be compared, and the lower-value uses be carefully examined
for their strategic im­ portance. This will require a serious reexamination of the services professional firms offer, the clients they serve, and the types of busi­ ness they
pursue. Greater selectivity will be the name of the game. Certain services will be dropped (perhaps passed back to the client), and certain types of clients will be judged to be no
longer profitable or attractive. For many firms this analysis will require a careful reexam­ ination of how (if at all) profitability is measured at the project or client level.
Not only will these considerations enforce a re-evaluation of which markets and services the firm should be in, but, in addition, firms will have to think more carefully about the
relationship between growth and profitability. For the first time in two decades, the growth of pro­ fessional firms will be constrained by their labor supply. Accordingly, the
economics of attracting new business will have to be tested against the economics of staffing that business, including the opportunity costs of tying up staff best deployed
elsewhere. Such considerations are rarely included in the “new matters acceptance” policies of to­ day’s firm. If it is to remain vibrant, every professional firm must grow at a
rate sufficient to provide challenge and opportunities for advancement to its staff. This has always been so. However, firms will need to ask themselves why they wish to grow at a
rate faster than that needed to provide career opportunities. RETEN TIO N An important part of any firm’s strategy for dealing with the people crisis will be to reduce its need for
new hires by doing a better job of retaining its existing staff. If you have paid a lot for a resource, and invested a lot in its training, the last thing you want is for that
resource to disappear. Retention will become a major strategic issue. What will it take to deal with it? As noted above, a great deal more attention will have to be paid to helping
individual staff members build their skills. As many studies have shown, morale, motivation, Surviving the People Crisis 199 and turnover are affected by nothing so much as the
nature of the work given to staff members. Therefore, the productivity issues dis­ cussed above are not just a matter of ensuring the effective use of resources: They also speak to
the issue of retention. Professionals look for careers, not jobs. As long as their career is progressing, they will stay. When they feel that they are no longer building skills,
they will jump. In addition, it may be necessary to rethink the professions’ tradi­ tional “up-or-out” philosophy. Letting good people go who are not quite good enough for
partnership has always been used as a success­ ful motivating force in the professions. However, it is, by design, a wasteful system, predicated on the assumption there will be an
ample supply of new entrants. Clearly, this model of firm structure may not be sustainable in a scarcity situation. (It is interesting that many pro­ fessional firms are today
exploring “alternate partnership models” to address this issue.) Holding on to good people short of partnership is not an easy task: salary increases alone will not suffice,
particularly in an environment where some firms, short of staff, will be constantly looking to “raid” other firms. Ways must be found to help senior nonpartner staff feel valued
and not feel the temptation to jump to another firm. SUBSTITUTION STRATEGIES P A R A P R O FESSIO N A L S In the search for substitutes for higher-priced workers, most firms will
be led to cast a critical eye over their real staffing needs. Does all of their work truly require the services of the highly educated people that make up their traditional work
force? Already, many firms have found that they can get significant por­ tions of their work done at a reasonable cost to clients by using paraprofessionals, people who do not have
traditional qualifications and can be hired at a lesser cost than the traditional group. Few professional firms make money on first- and second-year em­ ployees: The value of the
work assigned to them does not match the salaries they receive. The first year or two are viewed as a training ground for entry level staff, to teach (often by osmosis) the
realities of the profession. In the past twenty years, with entry level staff in abun­ 200 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm dance and comparatively inexpensive, this
approach to absorbing new entrants may have been wise. In the future, it may prove to be an expensive indulgence. Any examination of the tasks performed by entry level personnel
reveals that much professional work can indeed be done by paraprofessionals. Of course, executing this strategy will require an invest­ ment of time and money to develop the
methodologies necessary to make good use of paraprofessionals. It will also require the develop­ ment of new management structures to oversee the “new” type of employee, and the
discovery of ways to train and integrate traditional hires into the practice at a more “advanced” level than heretofore. For many firms, certain “cultural” issues will arise from
this strat­ egy: If there are two large groups of staff, one on the professional track and one not, resentments may arise (as they have at some firms). Success with a large-scale
paraprofessional strategy requires that the professional “class system” be broken down, and the issue of career paths for paraprofessionals be worked out in advance. In spite of
these difficulties, this strategy is one of the few listed here that has the potential to generate the numbers of staff that many large professional firms require. It has many
other potential benefits as well. First, it offers the potential for reducing the “grunt work” component of the early stages of professional careers, thus making firms (and
professions) more attractive to scarce potential recruits. Second, it has the potential to lower the cost structure of the firm’s delivery of cer­ tain services, thus enabling the
firm to compete better in a high re­ source cost environment. N O N TRA D ITIO N A L CAN DID ATES In seeking substitutes for its traditional hires, firms have other sources to turn
to apart from paraprofessionals. A major option is to stay with traditional sources of staff, but consider alternatives to traditional hiring criteria. Already the excess of demand
over supply for gradu­ ates of “elite” schools is leading many firms to cast their hiring net a little wider than in the past. In the first instance, this often translates into
hiring more deeply from traditional schools—that is, recruiting graduates not in, say, the top 25 percent of the class. In addition, many, if not most, law and Surviving the People
Crisis 201 accounting firms in recent years have begun recruiting programs at schools not traditionally considered to be in the top echelon. Expanding beyond this, some
professional firms (such as account­ ing and consulting) have begun recruiting graduates from “nontraditional” programs, in the search for “bright” students wherever they may be
found. Some accounting firms are targeting math, liberal arts, and science graduates, while at least one major consulting firm has an active program of supplementing its MBA
recruiting with hiring pro­ grams at major law schools. One can predict with great confidence that this interprofessional competition for bright young people will escalate. In all
of these substitution strategies, firms will need to offset the nontraditional nature of their hires by revised training programs, if the new hires are to be absorbed into the
traditional career systems of the professional firm. However, not all substitutes might require (or expect) to step on to the career ladders of the firms. A major option for
professional firms will be to restructure their operations to provide not only “careers” but also “jobs.” Another source of substitutes for traditional professional firm hires will
be reentrants to the workplace and experienced people looking for career shifts. As the demographic statistics reveal, there will con­ tinue to be an abundance of
thirty-five-to-forty-four-year-olds in the workplace, and this may prove to be a useful source of workers for professional firms if these people can be tempted by the types of work
traditionally performed by twenty-five-to-thirty-four-year-olds inside the professional firm. A related substitution tactic would be to accommodate, at any level, those who seek
not a career, but a job. Thus, perhaps at any level, some staff could elect to be on the professional, ambitious track (shooting for partnership), while others declare themselves
as wishing to stay in a given function or at a given level, perhaps with lesser pay, and fewer demands on them. In essence this is being willing to accom­ modate the work
preferences of a broader variety of people, including part-timers, short-week workers, and others who seek an “alternate work life-style” other than the traditional intense pace
that is the hall­ mark of the professional firm. 202 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm TECH N O LO GY SU B ST IT U T IO N Substitution strategies do not only mean switching
from high-priced labor to lower-priced labor. Much professional work is fundamen­ tally made up of knowledge and information processing activities, and hence lends itself readily
to the automation of basic processes. While most firms recognize this, few have fully exploited the op­ portunities to tap into the power of the microcomputer. In large part, this
lag is due to the entrenched practice of charging clients by the hour for work done by professional staff. This circumstance has in­ hibited the large scale adoption of tools that
substitute machines for person-hours. Yet the opportunities are many. A perfect illustration is provided by one “Big-Six” tax practice, which has set itself the goal of reducing by
50 percent (within three years) the person-hours necessary to produce a tax-return. The exploitation in the legal profession of data-base systems such as Lexis®, together with
integrated word­ processing activities tied into local area networks, has some distance to go before the full benefits are captured. In many areas of consulting, the software
capability to perform relatively standardized analyses has not yet yielded all of the labor savings that are possible, and with the exponential increase of technology, the savings
in both time and money continue to grow. CONCLUSION Paraprofessionals. Productivity. Rapid skill building. People manage­ ment skills. Value enhancement. It will immediately be
recognized that few of the items listed above are new topics: Most will have been discussed at a majority of firms. Not necessarily acted upon— dis­ cussed. What is new is the
pressure to implement fully the already desirable actions. One cannot underestimate the difficulty that many professional firms will have in implementing the strategies discussed
above. For twenty years, virtually the entire business lifetime of most professional firm leaders, firms could be (and have been) run on the principle that what counted was
“getting the business”—if you could get the busi­ ness, you could get the staff to do the work. The historic abundance of staff has bred a set of attitudes that client-related
activities are where it all happens, and that people issues are somehow secondary. Surviving the People Crisis 203 This fundamental philosophy, embedded in the fundamental man­
agement practices of the firm (especially its measurement and reward systems) has been validated by two decades of experience, and will be hard to change. Professional firms, by
their very nature, are conservative institu­ tions. Formed from the voluntary collaboration of many powerful and increasingly mobile partners, they can bring about change in the
running of their affairs only with broad consensus. By a similar token, the changes that matter are not those made by any central group, but by the collective change of behavior of
tens, or hundreds, or thou­ sands of partners beginning to do things differently in the daily con­ duct of their individual practices. Take, for example, the simple issue of
getting partners to focus on being good coaches of their apprentices; on being good engagement leaders, delegating work as quickly as possible. As noted above, there are few firms
that do not “officially” require this of their partners: And there are just as few firms that have any management mechanism of incentive and reward for its performance. In most
firms, “business getting” is indeed “where it’s at,” and individual partners do not per­ ceive coaching, training, engagement leadership, skill building, and contributing to
retention as high on their priority list; these activities frequently receive more lip service than day-to-day attention. If a professional firm is to flourish in the new
environment, such situations must change. Firms will have to find ways to measure and reward senior professional performance in this area. Successfully im­ plementing such systems
is no trivial task. Measuring partner perfor­ mance in the area of engagement leadership can best be done through some form of regular “upward” reviews by junior staff of their en­
gagement leaders. For understandable reasons, such a management tool is difficult to institute in a partnership. Yet if it is not done, what mechanism will work as well to induce
all partners to believe that the firm places an equal weight on performance in this arena as in the client arena? Few firms have solved this dilemma. Similar challenges face those
firms that attempt to wrestle with other countercultural management practices. How many firms will be able to instill the practice of being increasingly selective in new busi­ ness
development to reflect resource scarcity and opportunity costs? How many will be able to make a successful transformation from an 204 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm
“up-or-out” culture to one where staff of varying levels of accom­ plishment (and status) feel comfortable remaining in the firm? As may be seen, the firms that will be most
successful in adapting to the new environment will be those willing to challenge many of their most cherished notions and most deeply entrenched practices. People are the most
important asset of a professional service firm. It’s time the firms started acting as if they really believed it. PART FOUR MANAGEMENT MATTERS CHAPTER 19 HOW PRACTICE LEADERS ADD
VALUE What it is that distinguishes the most successful firms (or practices) from ordinary firms in the same market? My experience suggests that it has little to do with creative
strategies or unique management sys­ tems. Nor is it a matter of IQ or professional talent. The partners I meet in the most successful firms are not consistently smarter or more
talented than their counterparts at other firms. What is noticeably different at the best firms is a characteristic variously described as energy, drive, enthusiasm, motivation,
morale, determination, dedi­ cation, and commitment. While many factors appear to play a role in creating this dynamism, one stands out above all others: the skills and behavior of
the practice leader(s). In firm after firm, I have observed marked changes in per­ formance from the same group of partners where the only thing that changed was a new individual
appointed to the leadership of a prac­ tice. This should not be surprising. A professional practice is like a sports team, filled with talented athletes who will only win if they
truly fulfill their potential. Professionals, like athletes, when left to their own devices, don’t accomplish as much as they do when they are supported by a good coach. It is
tempting to assume that since the typical professional firm is made up of intelligent, energetic individuals, they can be relied upon to be autonomous, self-starting professionals,
with no need to be man207 208 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm aged. However, my experience suggests that the best managers really do add a very special value. First,
through their actions other people accomplish more, and focus on more important things, than they would if left to their own devices. Second, it is through the skill of the manager
that the talents of powerful individuals are shaped into even more powerful teams, learning from and supporting each other. Professionals lead busy lives with many conflicting
demands on their time and attention. In such a world, it is all too easy to be driven by the pressure of events and postpone or neglect activities that may not have to be done
today but are essential for the future. All too often, the urgent drives out the important. Examples of “postponable” activities that are often neglected due to the pressure of
daily business might include those extra touches of client service that build relationships; or the added time it takes to help a more junior profes­ sional learn a new approach;
or the extra time taken to represent the firm in important meetings of the business community in order to build a presence. Professionals usually understand the importance of these
activities and know what to do to execute them. They intend to do them. But they do not always get around to them. After all, each of these actions involves short-term “costs” for
a long-term benefit. Left to themselves, professionals, like all human beings, find it all too easy to take care of today, at the risk of underinvesting in tomorrow. I first
experienced the power of a skilled manager of professionals as a young academic, when I lived within a system that had both short-term goals (teach my classes), as well as
long-term goals (re­ search and publication). I could be relied upon to teach my classes, but even though it was in my own career interest to get the long-term stuff done, somehow
I always found ways to postpone it. The school’s formal performance appraisal system, conducted annually, was an exercise in paperwork, and never really worked to motivate me (or
anyone else I knew.) Then one day, without notice, a senior colleague dropped by. “Da­ vid, we don’t have many opportunities to get together,” he said, “and I was interested in
what you were up to. Why don’t you tell me what your research is about?” I stumbled to find an answer. “Well, you might need to get a little more focused,” he observed. “Let’s chat
about it. How can I help?” We discussed my ideas for a while. “What research sites do you plan to visit?” he asked. I had no idea and How Practice Leaders Add Val ue 209 said I was
still working on it. “Perhaps I can help you there,” he said. “Why don’t you make a list of what you’re looking for and I’ll review it with you, if you wish.” The conversation
continued with the senior colleague gently prob­ ing, making suggestions, and making me well aware (without rubbing my nose in it) of what I should be working on. After (only)
fifteen or twenty minutes, he said, “Well, I have to leave now, but I’m delighted we had this chance to chat. Perhaps I can drop by again sometime soon. I’ll be keen to see what
progress you’ve made.” This individual was very skilled. His tone and questions were gentle and understanding, but I was thoroughly embarrassed that I didn’t have good answers to
reasonable questions. That fifteen or twenty minute intervention left me motivated and energized, and I was more organized, disciplined, and productive than I had ever been for at
least three months afterwards. The lessons, I hope, are obvious. Before this intervention, I was cruising along, taking care of business, but not really focused or pro­ ductive, in
spite of all the formal incentives and structured perfor­ mance appraisal systems. Basically, I felt like one more cog in the system. Suddenly, someone was showing a personal
interest in me. Someone clearly cared about me and how I was doing. Someone wanted me to succeed, and found a nonformal, nonthreatening way to offer concrete, helpful suggestions.
This person let me form my own conclusions about how well I was doing. I wasn’t being judged, I was being coached. Since that time, I have repeatedly observed both the need for,
and the power of, good coaching. I frequently ask groups of partners to assess the percentage of their capabilities at which they are currently functioning. The answers vary
widely, but can be surprisingly low. Partners frequently report that they are diligent and are working hard, but a surprisingly large percentage report that they are not “turned
on” and excited by their practice. They are just “grinding it out.” This difference between working hard and being excited may be subtle, but it makes a world of difference in
leading to marketplace success. I once interviewed the managing partner of a large office of an international professional service firm. I had been told that, without changing
personnel or investing extra funds, he had converted a num­ ber of the firm’s declining and demoralized branch offices into flour­ 210 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm
ishing practices. I was eager to learn the secret of his success. Would it be strategic planning? Tight cost control? Marketing training for the professional staff? “The key thing
that I do,” he told me, “is to call each person into my office and ask a single question: ‘What do you want to be famous for?’ ” He reported that a very high percentage of partners
have no answer to the question. “The typical professional,” he continued, “is a highly trained, intelligent person, usually ambitious, who wants to feel special and to feel that
the firm that he belongs to is special. But it is remarkable how few people are focused. My job as managing part­ ner is to engage, encourage, focus, and channel the partners’
energies and ambitions.” My own research with professional service firms of all kinds has confirmed the wisdom of these observations. For firms to function effectively, they must
foster an atmosphere of dynamism, of ambition, of aiming to be the best. It is the manager’s task to keep the profes­ sionals’ eyes fixed on this continuous ambition to improve, to
grow, to develop. WHAT GOOD COACHES DO How do good coaches achieve results? Effective practice leaders rec­ ognize that you rarely “turn on” partners (or get them to change)
through speeches, vision statements, or inspirational group meetings. They know that the only truly effective way to influence people is one on one, in highly individualized,
closed-door counseling. Above all else, they pay attention to the individual. They are close enough to what the individual is doing to be able to offer substantive sugges­ tions.
They are always “dropping by” to ask “how’s it going?” Good coaches use many approaches in motivating their people, recognizing that different individuals are “turned on” by
different things. What works with one partner may fail with another. Among the many separate and different things that may motivate a given in­ dividual are money, external
(marketplace) esteem, internal status and recognition, autonomy, appreciation, professional pride, team­ work, an especially challenging assignment, rivalry, or any of a nu­ merous
list of “hot buttons.” One of the key talents of a good coach is the ability to recognize what motivates each specific individual, and deal with people on their own terms. Good
coaches do not theorize How Practice Leaders Add Value 211 about what should motivate people— instead, on a case-by-case basis they discover what does motivate each person. A good
coach recognizes that coaching is a continuous process and does not “save up” feedback and performance guidance for a oncea-year grand counseling session. Constructive feedback and
sugges­ tions are much more likely to be accepted (and hence be effective) if they are offered in small increments. Similarly, if counseling advice is given long before performance
is to be assessed, and not when it di­ rectly leads to reward, then it is more likely to be seen as a source of help, not as an evaluation. When good coaches give feedback, it
should not be just a critique, but should contain concrete action ideas for how to improve. Good coaches tell people not only what could be improved, but h ow . They are thus seen
by those they coach as a source of creative ideas. Effective practice leaders go out of their way to celebrate successes and triumphs. They make constant use of approval,
visibility, recog­ nition, and appreciation. (Ask your partners how often they hear “well done” or “thank you.” Ask them whether they’d like to hear it more often.) However, to be
effective, good coaches must also be demanding. When a good athlete successfully jumps over the high bar, what does a good coach do? Two essential things. First, celebrate the
accomplishment, and then—raise the bar! (“Come on you can do it!” ) Coaches must be simultaneously chief cheerleader and chief critic— one without the other is insufficient. Part
of the skill of coaching is knowing how high to raise the bar, that is, judging for each individual, separately, what next challenge will be stretching but achievable. Good coaches
know that getting people to change is difficult. Peo­ ple prefer to stick with what they know how to do (and the way they know how to do it) rather than risk exposing themselves by
trying to learn something new. To overcome this, good coaches are adept at structuring small pilot projects designed to give the individual (and the group) the experience of an
early success. They rarely ask people to make major changes, but instead say “Let’s just try this one small thing and see if it will work.” Good coaches give people the confi­
dence to try new things, and help them accomplish more than they expected they could. Good coaches build teams. Since most players will probably be more focused on their own
personal performance, it is up to the coach to look out for the overall best interests of the group. The coach must 212 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm identify
opportunities for joint activities. The coach must stay alert for those situations when what is in the best interest of the player is not necessarily in the best interest of the
team (e.g., who pursues a specific client, or how a particular matter is to be staffed), and then must negotiate with the individuals involved to do the “right” team thing. This
inevitably involves the coach in trading favors. (“Help us out on this one, and I’ll do my best to look after you next time.” ) Good coaches pay significant attention to how the
group’s resources are being deployed, and whether or not all the bases are being covered. Good coaches make frequent use of small-group team meetings to discuss “What are we going
to do about X ?” drawing ideas out of the group. Good coaches are Socratic. They don’t present conclusions (“I’ve thought about this and decided we’ve got to do X ” ). Instead,
they reason together with their team. If ideas come up that they are uncertain about, they ask “If we did that, how would we handle the following adverse consequences?” Good
coaches know that their job is to get people to act differently and to try new things, and that means making people want to do it. This is accomplished, in large part, by leading
them to discover the right answers for themselves. As possible initiatives develop some degree of consensus, they ask for volunteers, or assign roles, to perform activities on
behalf of the group. (“Susan, will you be prepared to do that for us? When do you think you can get it done by?” ) They also make sure that people don’t sign up for things they
can’t get done, because they do not want to set the precedent that action promises to the group can be neglected. Good coaches also work hard at developing joint tasks so that
people get the experience of teamwork and joint responsibility. Perhaps most important of all, good coaches follow up. They mon­ itor the execution of plans (“By the way, Tom,
how’s that seminar that you agreed to arrange going? Anything I can do to help?” ) If things are getting off track, they don’t wait for the end of the fiscal year to see what was
and what wasn’t done— they gently intervene while there’s still time to get things back on track. HOW THE PRACTICE LEADER SPENDS TIME What all this reveals is that practice leaders
can be valuable by helping professionals understand and act on their real priorities and help them balance their activities between those things that help the individual H ow
Practice Leaders Add Value 213 (and the firm) today and those that will help ensure their tomorrow. Left to their own devices, bright energetic people will look after “to­ day.”
Practice leaders are needed to be the guardians o f the long-term. They are valuable when they act as the conscience of their colleagues: not necessarily giving them new goals, but
helping them achieve the goals they have set for themselves. The manager’s role is to be the reminder, the coach, the supporter, as individuals struggle to balance today’s
pressures with longer term accomplishments. This is not necessarily easy. Of everyone in the firm, it is most likely the manager who is most familiar with and must deal with
today’s financial results. There is thus a danger that the manager can become the most short-term oriented individual in the office rather than the most long-term oriented. The
best indicator of the orientation of managers is how they spend their time. A manager’s time can be divided into five categories: • Administrative and financial matters • Doing
professional (billable) work • Personal marketing and selling • General client relations • Dealing and talking with senior professionals and staff Where in this list is the
manager’s greatest opportunity to “make a difference?” As pressing as financial and administrative matters can appear, they are not points of high impact from a long-term
perspective. Adminis­ tration is a matter of “hygiene”: if done poorly it can hurt the practice, but outstanding administration never promotes the future success of the practice.
It must be taken care of, but it does not build for the future. Practice leaders must find ways to get the administration per­ formed (with quality) without consuming all of their
precious time. Virtually every practice leader should have a high-powered admin­ istrative officer to whom administrative and financial matters can be delegated. In almost all
cases, such a person is self-funding, since the time freed up for the practice leader to apply to high-valued tasks is worth much more than the cost of an administrative officer.
Any prac­ tice leader spending more than 10 percent of his or her time on ad­ ministrative or financial matters is being an administrator, not a manager. What of doing professional
work (i.e., staying personally billable)? 214 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm Is this a necessary activity for a practice leader? To a certain extent. Managers, in order
to have the credibility to lead, must continue to earn the professional respect of those they are hoping to influence. They must also ensure that they are not completely isolated
from the market. And yet it is clear that performing personal billable work on his or her own clients is not a highly leveraged use of a manager’s time. There is only a limited
opportunity to help and influence others in the office when doing this. How much of this must the manager do in order to retain the re­ spect of colleagues and remain in close
contact with the market? An­ swers may vary by profession and by firm, but it could be argued that, if it is the right kind of work, a manager can continue to demonstrate “value as
a professional” by being no more than 10 to 20 percent chargeable. Doing professional work is fulfilling and fun, and coach­ ing others is not always so, but one must recognize
which is the true “building” activity. A similar line of reasoning applies to new business development or selling. The manager must be involved in this to earn the respect of the
senior professionals. Yet a manager adds the most value not by sell­ ing, but by teaching others how to sell. There is the leverage. There are forms of business community
activities and new prospective relation­ ship building that the senior professionals cannot do as well alone and the manager is needed to help— but not to be a substitute. A manag­
er’s role is to be a teacher first and a “doer” second. Both are needed, but the priorities must be clear. Time spent dealing with senior professionals is, as we have dis­ cussed
above, a very high-value activity, if done well: helping others solve their problems, helping them keep their priorities straight, help­ ing them set stretching goals for
themselves. These are the activities that produce results beyond what the people would accomplish if left to their own devices. The best coaches devote significant time to this
area, anywhere from 30 to 60 percent of their work-week. What of client relations? It is important to note that, as used here, client relations is a separate category from both
business development and personal professional work. Instead, we are referring to the ac­ tivity of visiting clients of other partners in the practice to discuss the client’s
satisfaction with the firm’s services, their emerging business issues, and the like. Of course, these visits are not intended to go How Practice Leaders Add Value 215 behind the
backs of the partners responsible for those clients and would usually be done in conjunction with those partners. This activity is immensely valuable. Spending time with existing
