activity that builds skills and hence leads to future success. Managing efforts rather than results means that marketing cannot be “managed by the numbers.” A structured, highly
personal and interpersonal pro­ gram must be devised. THE POWER OF THE SMALL TEAM To manage a marketing program successfully, firms should organize teams of professionals who,
together, design and execute their own Managing the Marketing Effort 137 marketing action plan. The benefits of small-group teamwork are many. The existence of many small teams
(rather than a few large ones) both permits and encourages a high degree of focus in marketing ac­ tivities. Individuals are allowed (if not required) to pick the team that
interests them most: one focused on a target industry, perhaps, or a particular specialty. By becoming a member of a specific team, with specific colleagues, focused on a specific
target client group (new or existing), they avoid the isolation of being left alone to do something in marketing (often without guidance), and also escape from being one among a
large horde all jointly responsible for a huge (and illdefined) marketing task. The structuring of teams with a specialized marketing focus (not just generalist groupings) will
improve the chance that marketing time will be used productively. By pooling their available nonbillable practice development time, a team can create an investment budget that is
of sufficient scale to be allocated sensibly across the range of marketing activities required in their specific segment. (Obviously, the marketing plans of different teams will
include different activities, depending on the need of their market). A well-orchestrated campaign is now possible. This ap­ proach avoids the (common) syndrome where, as an
example, a pro­ fessional may not find it in his or her best individual interest to try to put on a seminar, but will willingly accept this role as a contribution to a team effort.
Teams that have developed a joint plan and allocated responsibil­ ities among themselves tend to keep each other honest: the planned activities have a higher probability of being
executed if there is an obligation to one’s peers (and not just to firm management). In addi­ tion, small teams provide an excellent vehicle for coaching, mentor­ ing, and the
transfer of skills. They provide a route for marketing novices to work together with experienced rainmakers, without being a burden on the latter. They provide the supportive
framework for individuals with little or no marketing experience to begin to partic­ ipate. Small teams also allow a degree of team spirit and competitiveness between teams that,
if managed well, can be energizing without de­ stroying collaboration and firm feeling. For example, simply publish­ ing and discussing the level of activity of each team (not just
team results) on a regular basis (say, quarterly) can cause an extra degree of 138 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm added motivation to follow through on commitments. If
each team is asked to report on its activities at regular partner meetings, teams will act as consciences to each other. In designing teams, care must be taken to join together
partners who truly have a shared interest in a common market segment or practice specialty. For this reason, it is best to allow people to decide for themselves which team to join.
For teams to work, the members have to be interdependent on each other to achieve their personal goals: they must be real teams. When team assignments are handed out by others, too
often they end up being teams in name only, with members perceiving no practical business purpose for being on the same team. Team assignments do not have to be, and should not be
permanent. Group thinking can become stale and inertia can set in. If this hap­ pens, firms should shake up teams by creating new ones—task forces of partners who don’t normally
work together. How the teams are managed is important. Each team should be required to develop a concrete plan of action, showing specific steps to be accomplished by each
individual. These plans are then reviewed with a managing partner or practice leader, who accepts only strong commitments to action. Too often the marketing plan is a wish list of
goals (e.g. “raise awareness of the practice” ), instead of what it should be: a listing of concrete actions that can be monitored to see if they were executed or not. Team plans
should show a specific time budget for the designated actions. This is necessary to ensure that the plans are reasonable. Two tests must apply. First, each proposed action needs to
have sufficient time budgeted to do it well. This seems trivial, but I have observed many marketing plans with a list of actions that clearly could not be fulfilled in the time
available. Naturally enough, the team failed to complete the actions, became dispirited, and abandoned the whole effort. As is always true of management, the job of the managing
partner or practice leader is to ensure that stretching but attainable goals are set. The second “time test” is to look at the total budgeted time for the team, and compare it to
the total available marketing time. Clearly, it would not be wise to schedule, in advance, all of the team’s marketing time, since that would not allow for unforeseen proposal
opportuni­ ties, new existing client requests or any of a host of other required Managing the Marketing Effort 139 marketing activities that cannot be predicted. I have learned
that, as a rule of thumb, it is wise to schedule approximately two thirds of the available marketing time for planned marketing activities, saving one third for unforeseen
opportunities. While situations differ, I believe it is wise to plan for three months at a time. This will require a review of progress (and a possible reshuffling of priorities)
four times a year— frequent enough to make the oversight real, but long enough to exe­ cute most planned activities. The managing partner or practice leader exercising the
oversight function for the team can also critique the plan according to the allo­ cation of investment time given to various categories of marketing activity. Has the team got the
balance right between investing in new and existing clients? Between generating opportunities and saving enough time to do an effective selling job when they do have a lead? Should
the team focus on fewer targets and devote more time to each, or vice versa? If action plans are developed and discussed in advance, significant influence (if not control) can be
exercised over where the firm’s marketing investments are going. The system should be built on “contracts for action” to secure strong commitments, ones that can be monitored and
that profession­ als will follow through on. Negotiating these contracts with the team will force tough choices among competing marketing priorities, and will focus attention on
those few activities that will actually get done. Team leaders must make sure that each part of the marketing plan is assigned to a specific individual. What is everybody’s
responsibility is truly nobody’s. So, team members should be asked to specify what their individual action responsibility is in their personal contract of action, and how their
activities will fit with the team plan. Through negotiation of these contracts, firm leadership can gain a better understanding of the personal goals, strengths, and direction of
each professional. Over time, firm management (and team leaders) can better align the individual’s actions and interests with others who can be valuable to him or her, and find
better ways to provide support. Partners (and teams) should aim for small improvements and build from success. Business development is a new experience for many professionals, and
a painful stretch for some. It is also an activity full of rejection and disappointments. Getting beyond these setbacks is difficult for many professionals. One-on-one supportive
coaching is 140 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm needed, a critical role for each team leader. If people are to learn new skills, it is not enough to set goals and
monitor them. Team and individual results should be monitored through face-toface methods, with a practice manager outside the team reviewing plans, activities, and results.
Memoranda and statistical reports are too easy to “file and forget,” and don’t tell the whole story of what was done, what succeeded, and what did not. It is therefore necessary to
use peer group meetings and one-on-one sessions to act as a con­ science, review results, and set new goals. Only in this way can team motivation be maintained, by demonstrating
that “the firm” notices, cares, and appreciates what is being done. CONCLUSION If marketing is an investment activity, it should be managed as such. My experience suggests that
most firms’ marketing problem is not that they spend too little time marketing, but that, because of the lack of organization, much of the time they do spend is wasted. With large
numbers of partners, each making independent decisions on how much time to invest, where to invest it, and how to invest it, an un­ productive jumble of activities results. The
small-team approach suggested here is very simple to imple­ ment. It requires only that a firm organize small teams, require each team to submit of a concrete plan of action
specifying what will be done by each team member, and then monitor progress against that plan. As simple as this is, many firms fail to achieve even this level of organization. If
they choose to follow this approach, they will be able to: a. Plan their investments, ensuring that effort is going in the ap­ propriate areas b. Encourage broader participation in
the marketing effort c. Monitor that planned activities really do take place d. Allow each professional to play to individual strengths The steps are simple, and the payback
significant. PART THREE PEOPLE MATTERS CHAPTER 13 HOW’S YOUR ASSET? At the end of my first full year as a management consultant, at the age of 3 9 , I decided to take stock. How
healthy was my career? I quickly discovered a disturbing paradox. My income statement was fantastic, but my balance sheet was deteriorating so badly I was in danger of ruining my
career, of going out of business. Just before starting my consulting career I had published a few articles which had caught the attention of my target clientele, and I also had the
advantage of having been a faculty member at the Har­ vard Business School for the previous six and a half years. The con­ sequence was that I was incredibly busy. What is more, I
had to do no practice development (otherwise known as marketing and selling), because the phone constantly rang with requests for me to do work in the area in which I had built my
(budding) reputation. I was not only very busy (“highly chargeable” ), but, because I was being hired to do things that I already had a reputation for, I had relatively few
problems with fee levels (I had a “high realization per­ centage” ). I made a lot of money, more than I had hoped for. All seemed to be going very well. But was my business (and/or
my career) truly healthy? I remem­ bered my business-school training, which taught me that to judge the health of a business you had to look at the balance sheet as well as the 143
144 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm income statement. What made up my balance sheet? I could think of two groups of assets for a professional. (We’ll ignore for the
moment my liabilities, particularly the personal ones.) The first group of assets on which my career was based was my inventory of knowledge and skills. Professionals get paid for
their time, but that’s not what we sell. We sell knowledge and skill. The second (potential) asset was my client relationships. Much to my sur­ prise, I discovered that both had
deteriorated badly. The problem with my knowledge and skill was that I hadn’t learned anything new. By definition, the unsolicited phone calls requesting my services had been for
things that I was already known for. Even though each client project was customized (to a degree), I found myself doing basically very similar work for a variety of clients. I had
not added to my abilities. What was even more shocking (and depressing) was the realization that not only had I not grown my asset, but its value on the market was going
down—rapidly. Left untended, knowledge and skill, like all assets, depreciate in value— surprisingly quickly. When I first started out, the ideas contained in my articles (on which
I had launched my business) were relatively new to the market, and I could therefore command a premium fee to consult or speak about them. However, with each passing month (and, I
could foresee, each passing year) the price the market would pay for those ideas (and the related skills and knowledge) would decline. There were probably more potential clients
out there to whom I could keep selling the “same old stuff,” but if I kept this up, my skills eventually would be out of date and worthless. Already the danger signs were there.
Friends among my client base told me that people were saying “ Oh, yeah, we’ve had Maister in and heard his stuff. What else has he got?” Even with ongoing clients (and I had a
few) they clearly didn’t value as highly what I was doing the second or third time I did it for them as they did the first time. The value of my asset was definitely going down.
There was also a strange problem with the second group of assets, my client relationships and reputation. If I had published a personal brochure (or resume) about my consulting
career to date, it would have looked very impressive. I had worked for a large number of very prestigious clients. It felt like my client and contact list represented a real asset.
But was there any real value there? How's Your Asset? 145 It quickly became clear that my client relations would have a high value if and only if the next time the client had a
problem in my field of interest, I had a high probability of getting the job. That would have been worth something. But the truth was, that wasn’t the case. I real­ ized that
having done “one thing” (or a limited set of things) for a wide variety of clients meant that I really hadn’t developed relation­ ships that promoted the chances of me getting
their next (interesting) assignment. I realized that the value of my client relationships was not to be measured by the number of clients, nor by their prestige, but by how deep
the relationship was. I would have been better off, I realized, if I had worked for fewer clients, but done a variety of things for them so that they would have had a chance to see
the range of my skills, and had had the chance to work with me enough to learn to know me and trust me when new things came up. As I worked to address these problems in subsequent
years, more harsh realities about professional life became evident. Unfortunately, I discovered that it was harder to generate asset-building work than to sell what I was already
known for, already had methodologies for, already had written articles about, already had references for. If I took the line of least resistance in my practice development
activities (i.e., sold what it was easiest to sell), chances were that I would milk my asset, not build it. Second, I learned that doing asset-building work was often more
stressful, and sometimes less fun, than doing what I was already good at. Doing the type of work that was easiest and most comfortable was not necessarily what was best for my
career: in fact, it rarely was. I realized that, in professional life, if you’re comfortable, you’re head­ ing for trouble. In sum, I learned that unless I actively worked at it,
my career pros­ pects would inevitably decline, even when (or perhaps especially when) I was making lots of money. Having a good current year finan­ cially was clearly a necessary
condition for my success, but it was far from being a sufficient condition. Keeping my career moving forward, even staying level, was going to take conscious effort. There were two
pieces of good news in all this. First, I discovered that, if I was prepared to work at it, then there did not have to be a trade-off between my balance sheet and my income
statement. If I 146 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm could be diligent and clever enough in my practice development, then I could be as busy on asset-building work as I
had been on asset­ milking activities. Furthermore, if I did it right, I could deserve and earn higher fees for learning, growing types of projects than I was able to earn for the
stuff I knew how to do years before. My current chargeability and realization did not have to suffer; I just had to learn to manage my flow of work and be sure to build new
skills—continually and forever. The second piece of good news was that it was possible to get hired for assignments for which I had no methodology, no references, and little, if
any, experience. The secret turned out to be that while new clients were unlikely to hire me for such things, an existing client who had, during the current assignment, had a
chance to see me in action and learned to trust me, might, if I played my cards right, give me a chance. I learned that investing my practice development time with existing clients
rather than new clients was more likely, by far, to help me grow my asset. The second (or third) assignment from an existing client (assuming the projects were different) was
definitely more likely to deepen my knowledge, broaden my skills, and make an asset out of my client relationship than another “first” assignment for one more new client. That’s
what I learned in my first year. Since then, I have learned that these experiences were not just the problems of the early stages of a career. In fact, the more “successful” I got
in later years, the greater was the temptation to exploit existing skills and relationships and the harder I had to work to make sure that I didn’t just cruise, letting my balance
sheet slip away unexamined. After having observed thousands of partner-level professionals in a wide variety of professions in numerous countries, I conclude that the lessons
(summarized in Table 1 3 -1 ) still apply, not only to me, but to every professional, at any stage in his or her career. MOVING TOWARD A SOLUTION: THE PERSONAL STRATEGIC PLAN To
grow your asset well requires a plan, one designed to make your asset increasingly more valuable on the marketplace. You have to find ways to (continue to) develop the knowledge
and skills that your tar­ get clients value. In essence, we all need a personal strategic plan for our careers. TABLE 1 3 -1 The Lessons LESSON ONE What you know now and are able
to do now, what your current success is built on, will unavoidably depreciate in value unless you actively work on learning new things and building new skills. Continual
professional development is a lifelong require­ ment, not an option. There may have been a time when once you got good at some­ thing, maybe “made partner,” you could live off that
for the rest of your career. If those times ever existed, they’re gone now. The minute you start thinking you know how things work, you’re dead. LESSON TWO The health of your
career is not dependent so much on the volume of business you do, but the type of work you do (whether or not it helps you learn, grow, and de­ velop), and who you do it for
(whether or not you are increasingly earning the trust of some key clients). In any profession, the pattern of assignments you work on is the professional development process—you
just have to learn how to manage it. LESSON THREE No matter how busy you are, you still owe it to yourself and to your career to get involved with and take charge of your own
practice development activities (market­ ing and selling). If you let others in your firm generate the business you work on, you are putting your career development in other
people’s hands—a risky move at best. If you rely on business flowing to you unsolicited, then, with high probability, it is going to be “asset milking” rather than “asset
building.” What marketing and selling are about is truly practice development: influencing the qualitative nature of what you work on, so that you use your work experiences to
continue to build your career. LESSON FOUR Since asset building is about managing your affairs for the long-term health of your career, you’d better take charge of it yourself.
Don’t wait for your firm to establish formal policies to reflect concern about the balance sheet as well as the income state­ ment. It probably should, but whether it does or not,
it is in your own interest to get started yourself. LESSON FIVE Alas, you cannot automatically assume that what your firm “asks you to do” will al­ ways be the right thing to build
your asset. For example, if you are already experi­ enced in a certain area, chances are that others in the firm will turn to you every time an issue comes up in that area. If you
don’t take charge, others will exploit your asset. You’ve got to be a good corporate citizen, but you’ve also got to learn to balance that with what makes sense for your own
development. LESSON SIX Among the worst mistakes a professional can make is underinvesting in marketing to existing clients. Existing clients are not only more likely to give you
new business, but the business they’ll give you (if you work to earn it) is likely to promote the value both of your skill asset and your client relationships asset. 148 M anaging
the P rofessional Service F irm What can you do to promote your learning, apart from being ex­ posed to a variety of experiences? Traditionally, most people acquire their skills
and knowledge by opportunistic insights, not structured learning (the phrase is from Donald Schon). However, you can rely too much on “random” experience as a teacher. To learn
well, you have to set out to learn some specific som ething. Unfortunately, this requires focus. Like most professionals, I enjoy variety in my work life. I have wide interests and
enjoy learning new things about lots of subjects. Yet I have learned, from my own career and from watching those thousands of other professionals, that if you want to create a
truly valuable asset, then you have to focus your attentions on building a highly specific set of knowledge and skills. This is true not only because focus means that individual
pieces of learning are more likely to be cumulative and hence speeds up the value creation process, but also because (with ever increasing inten­ sity in each profession) clients
demonstrably value specialization. If we want our asset to be valuable on the marketplace, we have to consider what our clients define as value. With every passing year, I have
relearned the importance clients give to specialization in “their kind of business” (i.e., specialization either by industry or by “type of client” such as family-owned busi­
nesses, government agencies, entrepreneurial companies, Fortune 500 companies, or international organizations). Meeting a client need not mean working only in one industry, 100
percent of the time. It does mean being sufficiently well informed and experienced to stay current on industry developments, converse with the client about industryspecific issues,
being able to offer your professional counsel in a way that does not require the client to do any “mental translation” of generalities or terminology into his or her specific
situation. For example, I have learned that the (seemingly “low-level” ) tasks of diligently reading my clients’ industry trade magazines, newslet­ ters, trade association
materials, every single month without fail, has made me a better professional in their eyes. It has made me, in their judgment, substantively more valuable to them. Sometimes
reading these materials (or attending their trade association meetings) doesn’t feel like a “professional development” activity, but I have to remind myself that, in the clients’
eyes, my asset is not defined as just my technical skill. For them, my asset is valuable if I have technical skill and the ability to apply it in a customized way to their
situation. How's Your Asset? 149 Choosing an industry (or “type of client” ) focus is a problem for many professionals who worry about overspecializing. When I began, I too wanted
to work with more than one industry (or, in my case, profession), and faced a common problem. How did I get to the ulti­ mate goal of both breadth (the variety of clients that I
find fun and fulfilling) and depth (the detailed knowledge of industry specifics that clients value?) By observation of others and from my own experience, I conclude that the
correct approach is depth first and then breadth. By first fo­ cusing on clients in a specific industry, you will more quickly build knowledge and skills they value, will more
quickly be exposed to a variety of (asset-building) types of assignments, and will more quickly build client relationships. Only after having done this is it wise to begin
branching out. If one took the opposite route, breadth first, one would be accumulating lots of little pieces of knowledge in a wide area, and establishing numerous minor client
relationships: not the best strategy for fast skill building. It is important, I have learned, to make a distinction between knowledge and skill. Knowledge is relatively easy to
accumulate quickly, but it also depreciates quickly. Skills are hard to win, but keep their value a little longer. Further, I have learned that it is im­ portant to distinguish
between technical skills and counseling skills. Growing one’s professional, technical skill is, of course, a mini­ mum requirement for keeping one’s career alive. However, it has
been a fascinating lesson to observe lawyers, accountants, consultants, and other professionals and to note that it really is only a very special few that have been able to build
their careers on technical skill alone. These few are the gurus, the rocket scientists, the brain surgeons of their professional specialty, who have somehow persuaded the mar­ ket
that they are closer to the frontier of their discipline than their competition. For the vast bulk of the remaining professionals I know (including myself), technical skill alone
is rarely enough. To be a valuable pro­ fessional in the eyes of clients, I have learned (sometimes through bitter experience), takes a variety of interpersonal skills that I lump
together under the title of counseling skills. Professionals are more valuable to clients if they not only solve their clients’ problems and “tell” them what they should do, but
help the 150 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm client understand more. This includes helping the client look at the issue in a fresh, more revealing way, and helping the
client see what the options are and what are their relative advantages and disadvan­ tages. This activity sounds simple, but I have learned that it truly is a skill, and like all
skills, it takes practice. By observation, I can report that some professionals are terrific at this, and others (probably the majority, including myself) could do with some
improvement. What can not be in doubt is that effectiveness in this area is something that clients value highly, and hence builds one’s asset and one’s career prospects. Other
skills fall into this category of counseling ability. Most pro­ fessionals find themselves working with more than one executive in a client’s firm. Accordingly, the client will
receive greater value from any ability the professional has to deal with groups, help the client organization arrive at consensus where none existed before, reconcile and handle
diplomatically conflicts of views among client personnel, and so on. Again, what I have learned is that these skills are called upon, not infrequently, but in the regular
activities of most profes­ sionals’ work. HOW TO SPEED UP YOUR ASSET BUILDING With these thoughts in mind, I worked hard over the years to manage the mix of my business, and, I
think, succeeded. I was lucky enough to be given the chance to work on a variety of interesting, challenging new types of assignments. A while ago, I gave myself a test. “OK,
David,” I said to the face in the mirror, “What do you know now, or what can you do now, that you didn’t know or couldn’t do one year ago? In what way are you a better professional
than you were one year ago?” I watched my face turn red. “I know I’ve learned something,” I replied, “but I’m not sure I can tell you what it is.” “Why not?” I quizzed myself. “The
problem, you see, is this. I’ve had lots of interesting experi­ ences, but I’m not sure I’ve figured out what they taught me. I’ve had my share of successes, but I’ve never paused
to reflect on why that particular assignment went well— I was always too busy dashing on to the next assignment. And, unfortunately, I’ve had my share of fail­ ures—client
assignments that didn’t work out as planned. And there I H o w ’s Your Asset? 151 was even more eager to dash on to the next piece of work, and not look back on what went wrong.
And even if I did look back, I have to confess that it was more normal for me to think about what the client people did wrong (‘Those darn clients!’ ) than what I could have done
better.” Since I was talking to myself, I indulged myself in an old joke. “The trouble is that some people have five years’ experience, and other peo­ ple have one year’s
experience five times.” The difference, of course, is in the ability to learn. Experience is the best teacher, but you have to do the homework. I realized that if I was going to
build my knowledge and skills, it was not enough to have a wide variety of experiences: I had to work at learning from them. I stole the following quote from somewhere, but now
cannot remember where. I’d love to give appropriate credit, because it sums up very well what personal asset building is all about: What we are is determined by what we experience,
which is determined by what we do, which is determined by what we learn, which is deter­ mined by how we interpret events. The lesson of this (inspirational?) quote is that, just
like my experi­ ence of looking at myself in the mirror, the essence of personal growth lies in taking the time to look back at what you’ve been doing and working at extracting the
lessons from it. There are four kinds of “debriefing” that I have found valuable in promoting learning: a. By oneself b. With the team (assuming that others, including juniors,
worked on the assignment) c. With the client d. With one’s peers First, debriefing alone. I find that if I force myself to examine my work experiences, taking the time at the end
of a project to ask myself “What went well, and why? What didn’t go so well, and why not,” I almost always come up with something that will help me get better next time. For
myself, I find that if I take notes (i.e., keep a written personal journal) I am more likely to remember and apply the lessons next time. 15 2 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice
F irm Debriefing with the team has the same goal, and the same ques­ tions. However, debriefing with the client adds an entirely new per­ spective. By asking the client to review
the assignment with me, and tell me, in retrospect, what “we” (the client and I) could have done better, what we might do “if” there were a next time, I have found that I get a
great deal of assistance in growing my asset, particularly in those areas of working with client personnel that are so important to clients but so easy to neglect in the
hurly-burly of “getting the project done.” There are immense benefits to be gained by asking your clients for feedback on your performance on a regular, systematic basis. I have
learned that if you ask, clients will be honest with you about what you could improve. Often the things they say you already were aware of, but the act of asking forces you to
confront (and deal with) your weak areas. Many firms have organized efforts in this area, including mailed questionnaires. Whether or not your firm adopts this approach, my
experience suggests that it is in individual professionals’ self-interest to arrange their own client feedback program just for themselves. Not only does this activity help build
skills, but the act of asking for feed­ back is a powerful tool in cementing client relationships. By taking every opportunity to discuss your work with peers, you create the
chance that you will derive value when they ask “Why did you do it this way? What would have happened if you did that?” Other devices can help skill building. Many of the key
interpersonal skills all professionals need fall into the category of what I call “The Cabin Attendant Test.” The airlines teach their cabin attendants how to deal with a rowdy
drunk at 35,000 feet. They even coach them in prepared scripts on precisely what to say to accomplish the desired soothing effect. However, knowing what to say is easy; having the
skill to actually “pull it off” in real time is an entirely different story. So it is with some counseling skills. How, for example, do you tell a client he or she is wrong,
without being rude, confrontative, or chal­ lenging? Doing it well takes skill, not knowledge, and a professional without that skill will not have great career prospects. The
answer, of course, comes from practice. But it must be practice in a situation where you can afford to fail, afford to watch yourself, try different approaches and learn. That
means rehearsals and role plays. Some of us can develop these skills rapidly by repeated experience in front of How's Your Asset? 153 real clients. For most of us, a little
off-line practice would work won­ ders, particularly if there’s a video camera around! It’s also a good idea to get on as many joint projects with profes­ sionals from other
disciplines as possible. We learn and develop from our work experiences, and if you get a chance to be on the same assignment as a top professional from some other area, you’re
going to learn. And learn in a way that no amount of reading or “off-line” conversations with that professional will ever provide. Figure out who has something to teach you, and
find a way (even if it means cross­ selling their services to your client) to work with that person. CONCLUSION Whether you are twenty-five or fifty-five, you will always need to
worry about where your career is going from today. As you think about your career, here are some questions to ponder: In what way are you personally more valuable on the
marketplace than last year? What are your plans to make yourself more valuable on the mar­ ketplace than in the past? What specific new skills do you plan to acquire or enhance in
the next year? What’s your personal strategic plan for your career over, say, the next three years? What can you do to make yourself (even more) special on the mar­ ket in the near
future? What, precisely, is it that you want to be famous for? CHAPTER 14 HOW TO BUILD HUMAN CAPITAL Managers in professional firms spend a lot of time worrying about marketing and
selling their firms’ services. But few give much thought to developing the “product” that the firm is trying to induce its clients to buy: the knowledge and skill of its staff.
Attempts at quick fixes in this area abound: If we need to enter a new market, bring in a lateral hire. If we need to add to partners’ skills in a particular service area, send
them to continuing education courses. If we need to train junior staff to handle certain matters bet­ ter, schedule a Saturday seminar or prepare a manual. Each of these devices
has its role. But they are frosting on what needs to be a more substantial cake: To add to the firm’s human capital—the collective judgment, knowledge, experience, and ability of
its members—there must be an ongoing, continual effort at all levels. Precise definitions of “professional skill” are hard to come by. The true added value of professionals lies
less in what they know than in what they can do: interview clients effectively, win their trust and confidence, diagnose their needs, and make the myriad judgmental decisions as to
how each matter should be handled. While profes­ sional know ledge can be codified and easily shared, professional skills can only be developed through practice. 155 156 M anaging
the P rofessional S ervice F irm Like all skillful arts, a professional craft is learned through appren­ ticeship. Clearly, it is in the firm’s interest to ensure that this appren­
ticeship process works effectively and speedily. By developing the skills of its junior members, the firm adds to the only resource it has to sell: professional judgment and
talent. So why, in many of the profes­ sional firms that I have studied, is this process ignored? WORK ASSIGNMENTS Consider, for example, the work assignment system. Most firms
would acknowledge that the kind of assignments junior members re­ ceive; the various cases, industries, and clients they encounter; and the mix of the senior people they work with
largely determine the kind of professionals they become. Skills, after all, are developed through ex­ perience, and assignments define the experience. Nevertheless, many firms take
an unstructured, even haphazard, approach to staffing projects. There may be an assignment committee, but in the day-to-day press of events, it is often circumscribed. Junior staff
are assigned to whichever project appears most pressing— or to the senior partner who screams the loudest. While periodic confer­ ences may be held about the need for longer-term
professional devel­ opment, in practice, work assignments are made according to short­ term criteria. There are merits to this free-for-all approach: To survive in such a system—to
“get developed”— young professionals must demonstrate initiative. They must be able to differentiate projects that are routine from those worth working on, and to lobby effectively
to get desirable assignments. They must be good at inspiring the confidence of useful, powerful partners—and adept at avoiding others. They must know when to “invest” time working
on pedestrian matters in order to get a chance to work on more important matters. In short, juniors must learn how to sell themselves inside the firm and make busy partners want to
take the time to share their expertise. This takes drive, cha­ risma, political skills, and judgment—the very qualities a senior pro­ fessional uses in dealing with clients. In
such a Darwinian system, only the fit survive. Good, promising young professionals are more frequently chosen for worthwhile projects by top professionals: These juniors spiral
upward to ever in­ creasing glory. “Weak,” unpromising, quiescent professionals tend to be sucked into pedestrian work with few learning opportunities: They How to Build Human
Capital 157 spiral downward. Such, at least, is the theory and, in many firms, the practice. This system seems most common in those firms that, because of high junior-to-senior
ratios and limited growth plans, expect a rea­ sonably high turnover rate among junior people. For these firms, sig­ nificant investment in training juniors may be wasted if a high
proportion of them are expected to leave. Investments of partner time in coaching, mentoring, and training are made only on a very selective basis, once the “stars” have been
identified and separated from the “dogs.” But not all firms can afford such an unforgiving and potentially wasteful system. For most, the goal must be to develop as many young
professionals as possible: Only in this way can the firm accumulate and maintain the skills it hopes to market. Increasingly, therefore, firms are asking staff committees and/or
