practice developm ent; 5 = We don't do this very well at all) Broadcasting (generating leads and enquiries) Courting (selling and proposing Superpleasing (ensuring client delight
with current matter) Nurturing (marketing to existing clients) Listening (gathering market intelligence) 100% development efforts. If I attempt to sell that client something
without having previously listened, my practice development efforts will be less effective. This is not an aesthetic or moral point (“You ought to pay more attention to existing
clients and listen more” ), but a simple matter of effective business practice: Which investments will give a good return for each non-billable practice development hour? Consider,
for exam­ ple, Table 5-1 which gives another way of looking at the alternatives of where an individual professional or firm can put its practice devel­ opment investment. There are
two sets of alternatives. The first choice available is whether to invest in marketing to existing clients or mar­ keting to prospects, and the second is whether to market to those
The Practice Development Package 57 Existing Client Prospective Client Superpleasing (Highest ROI) Courting Nurturing Broadcasting (Lowest ROI) T A BLE 5 -1 Aware of a new need Not
aware of a new need clients or prospects who are already aware of a new need versus those who are not currently aware of a need. Where on this grid will a firm get its highest
return on investment (ROI) for its first nonbillable practice development hour? For most firms, the answer will be in the top left-hand corner— making sure that your existing
clients who are aware of a new need (which they may or may not have previously told you about) give the work to you. Are your existing clients already giving you all (or a high
percentage) of their business as new needs emerge? If the answer is yes, then you can assume that this part of the practice development package is covered, and deserves no extra
effort. If, however, you have only a portion of your clients’ total work, then this area deserves your top priority, and an investment of nonbillable practice development time.
Unless some­ thing is seriously wrong with your relationships, it should be easier to get more of an existing client’s business than the first matter from a new client. Since the
ROI in this practice development activity is so high, it would be sensible for any firm’s practice development plans to begin with the following simple questions: Which of our
existing clients have additional work to give us? What level of nonbillable investment makes sense to ensure that we get that work? What activities will increase the probability
that this client will want to give us future work? Where on the grid is the lowest ROI practice development activities? Again, there can be no doubt about the answer— it is the
bottom right hand corner— a nonclient, not aware of a new need. Yet if you were to walk into the typical law firm and ask about their practice devel­ opment activities, you would
hear a great deal about attempts to go 58 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm out into the community and try to contact people with whom there is no current relationship, who
are not currently aware of a need, and trying to sell them something! Firms must do som e of this— a stream of new clients is essential to the continued success of any pro­
fessional firm. However, the issue is one of balance. This is the most time-intensive form of building the practice, and should be used as “fill-up” rather than the leading
component of the practice develop­ ment plan. Which of the two remaining boxes has the higher ROI? Here we can be less definitive, but we can certainly describe two very differ­
ent practice development tasks. The top right-hand corner describes a situation where the prospective client is aware of a new need, but we have no existing relationship with that
company. We can be con­ fident that a new matter will be forthcoming— they’re going to hire somebody— and our task is to make sure that it’s us they choose. Our main task here is
courting, a relatively time-intensive activity. To be selected, we need to get to know the client’s business from scratch, begin to develop a relationship with the key decision
mak­ ers, invest in preparing presentations and (possibly) proposals, and engage in a sequence of meetings before a decision is made. And all of this is probably taking place in a
competitive environment, since the nonclient is aware of a need and is probably talking to more than one firm. By way of contrast, the lower left-hand corner represents an exist­
ing client who is not currently aware of a new need, but with whom we do have a relationship. Investing time here is a bet— a gamble that if we spend time with client executives
exploring their business issues, we may uncover something that they’re not aware of but should be. (How likely is it that if you take the time to learn more about the client’s
affairs you will, indeed, uncover something? In most cases, this is a good bet). Once something has been uncovered, the practice development task is to bring it to the attention of
the relevant decision makers (whom you probably already know). This is not a lengthy time-consuming task, and the ROI should be good. This analysis suggests that the second highest
ROI of nonbillable practice development time is likely to be spending time with existing clients who are not currently aware of a need, with competitive efforts in chasing
nonclients aware of a new need coming third. It must be The Practice Development Package 59 stressed one more time that this discussion is not meant to suggest that one box is more
important than another, or that any may be neglected. In fact, quite the opposite is true—they must all be accommodated. Moreover, there is a logical order to these practice
development activities. First comes listening. Do this well, and all that follows will be easier. Next comes superpleasing. The better we can do there, the easier it will be both
to win existing clients’ future business and to win new clients through word of mouth. Third, it makes sense to ensure that you capture the new business of existing clients before
tackling the more difficult area of winning new clients. Finally, it makes sense to ensure that you are good at turning enquiries into signed deals before you improve your success
at generating enquiries. What balance, then, would I give to the competing activities? Roughly this. I would begin by designing an effective listening pro­ gram so that the firm
regularly, consistently gets input from its mar­ ketplace, and I would invest as much as it takes to do this well. Let’s say 10 to 15 percent of all practice development time for
this. Then, I would turn to superpleasing, and consider how much non­ billable time I would need to spend with current clients on current matters to leave them truly delighted and
not just satisfied. I could probably “satisfy” them on billable time, but if a little extra non­ reimbursed effort would delight them, I would consider it a wise place to put my
nonbillable practice development effort. Let’s say that a planned program of superpleasing would require 10 to 15 percent of my total practice development time. Next, I would turn
to the nurturing category and ask whether any of my existing clients had additional matters that I might earn by investing in the relationship. Probably, I would find a number of
high ROI opportunities here, deserving of 30 to 35 percent of my efforts. Only then would I turn to the new client side, with a total of 35 to 50 percent of available time. Between
broadcasting and courting, it is clear that courting (which involves, among other things, winning a prospect’s trust and confidence) is the more time intensive. Accord­ ingly, I
would try to limit my “lead generation” (broadcasting) activ­ ities to about 10 percent, leaving 25 to 40 percent for courting specific prospects. Are these percentages cast in
stone? Clearly not. Newly emerging 60 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm practices will require a different balance than mature ones, and firms in different stages of
practice development maturity will need to re­ stress some of the categories more than others. But balance there must be, and practice development time should be allocated with a
recog­ nition of the full range of available options and of where the return on practice development investment truly lies. CHAPTER 6 LISTENING TO CLIENTS For professional service
firms, no less than for other kinds of business, a primary means of achieving a competitive advantage is to have a better understanding of the wants and needs of clients than does
the competition. This deeper understanding, if it is to be obtained, comes from a very straightforward activity: listening to clients. Listening well to clients means more than
informal, opportunistic information gathering during the process of pursuing new client pros­ pects, or “keeping one’s eyes open” during current client engage­ ments. Neither can
it be restricted to special market research efforts performed as part of a “once-every-three-years” strategic planning activity. Rather, it requires an ongoing systematic attempt
to track client preferences, desires, and requirements. The questions “What do our clients want, and how are their needs changing?” must be contin­ uously addressed through a
structured program of information gath­ ering, analysis, and action built into the daily operations of the firm. Few professional firms have such a program. “What clients want” is
a source of endless debate and speculation in many firms, but few make use of the most obvious means of answering this question: going to the horse’s mouth and asking the client.
Stated simply, professional service firms don’t listen to their clients enough. This chapter describes some of the various means (and purposes) of 61 62 M anaging the P rofessional
Service F irm listening to clients, and evaluates each of these mechanisms. It should be stated immediately that none of the listening devices described be­ low is meant to be a
substitute for any other. On the simple reasoning that knowledge is power, and on the proposition that “you can’t know too much about your marketplace,” the wise firm will employ
as many of these tactics as possible. WHY LISTEN TO CLIENTS? Listening—soliciting clients’ evaluation of current services and getting them to describe their unfilled needs— has two
interrelated purposes: (a) improving the competitiveness of current services and (b) identi­ fying opportunities to develop new services. By inviting evaluations of current
services, firms create the oppor­ tunity to improve. As the Japanese manufacturers say, a “defect is a treasure.” In other words, by eagerly seeking out your “ defects” and
studying them carefully to identify why and how that performance failure occurred, you get the opportunity to improve. If you avoid feedback from those you serve, you never get the
chance to learn how to be a more effective competitor. To study “defects” a manufacturer can examine the product on the shop floor. A professional service firm does not have this
option: if there is a flaw in performance, only one person’s opinion counts: the client’s. If it is the client’s perspective that counts in judging performance on existing
services, it is even more important in identifying the need for new services. The professional may form an opinion of the market’s need for an additional service, or speculate on
how the market’s needs are changing. But these conclusions are useless until the client has been heard from. Accordingly, no professional firm can engage in strategic thinking, or
decide which of two forms of investment is wor­ thier, until it has received client input. Obviously, the firm that has a program of continuously soliciting, analyzing, and acting
upon such input will be better positioned to capitalize on strategic opportunities than the firm that gets such input on an opportunistic, irregular basis. THE VARIOUS MEANS OF
LISTENING TO CLIENTS There are, of course, numerous means of listening to clients, including many not listed here. However, we shall examine those listening ac­ Listening to
Clients 63 tivities that I have observed (or helped to install) in my client base of professional service firms. These include: 1. User groups 2. Reverse seminars 3. Attending
client industry meetings 4. Market research 5. Senior partner visits 6. Engagement team debriefings 7. Systematic client feedback U SER GRO U PS The concept of user groups,
familiar in industries such as computer software, is, I have learned, equally applicable and valuable in the professional service arena. A workable structure for a professional
firm user group is as fol­ lows. A small (five to seven participants) group of respected clients is asked whether it would be prepared to attend periodic meetings (two or three
times a year) to discuss the firm’s service offerings in a par­ ticular area. Such meetings are often held after a good dinner in a private room at a fine restaurant. After dinner,
the firm presents its plans for devel­ oping its practice in the specified area, including the development of new services, enhancement of existing services, and other strategic
changes it is considering. The clients are then invited to critique the plans, to say whether the proposed investments make sense from their point of view, and whether or not there
are other things that the firm should be considering to enhance its practice. The theory of the user group is straightforward: There can be no better judge of how the firm can
improve the competitiveness of its practice than the clients who will, after all, be the ultimate arbiters. My experience with user groups in professional practice is that they
work best when they are formed for a particular service (or welldefined practice area), rather than for the firm as a whole. I have learned that clients readily consent to
participate (after all, the firm is trying to find out how to be more valuable to them, and it is in their interest to be of assistance). More often than not, I have seen clients
be both candidly critical and constructive in their comments. They 64 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm readily point out which proposed changes “do nothing for them,” and
which needs they have that are going unmet. In effect, a well­ functioning user group does strategic planning for the firm. R EV ER SE SE M IN A R S If a seminar is where the
professional firm invites a group of clients together and talks to them, then a reverse seminar is where the firm invites the client executive to come and talk to the members of
the firm. A typical request would go something like this: Dear Client, We are very interested in you and your business. Unfor­ tunately, only a few of us get the chance to visit
with you in the course of our work for you. Accordingly, would you be prepared to come to our offices (or a nearby location) after business hours for a drink or two, and then give
us a brief talk about what is going on in your world? Perhaps you might be prepared to answer a question or two from our people. We do hope you will accept, as we are keen to learn
even more about you, your company, and your industry. The benefits of this practice are many. First, most clients would be flattered to be asked to speak, and would take the
invitation as what it is meant to be: a sincere indication that the firm cares about its clients and wants to learn more about them. To this extent, the reverse seminar is a
powerful client relationship management mechanism. Second, reverse seminars add to the knowledge base of the firm. In most firms, the individual professionals are skilled in their
technical specialty, be it law, accounting, actuarial science, public relations, or whatever. However, to be a skillful advisor requires that the profes­ sionals understand not
only their specialty but also the business envi­ ronment in which their clients operate. Yet in few professions is any formal provision made for people to acquire general business
knowl­ edge as they progress in their careers. The reverse seminar, particu­ larly if done on a regular basis (some of my clients hold one every two weeks, with different clients)
provides the mechanism to expose the staff of the firm (juniors and seniors alike) to the thinking of business people. A third benefit of reverse seminars is, of course, the chance
to iden­ tify future business development opportunities, particularly if the au­ Listening to Clients 65 dience contains not only professionals from the practice area currently
working with the firm, but those in other disciplines. These seminars must be treated carefully. If the clients come to perceive that they are being invited not to be listened to,
but to be sold something, they are unlikely to participate. My experience informs me that this is not too difficult to police, and is as much a matter of style and timing as
anything else. If the client expresses a need in the pre­ sentation, he or she can be asked if a further meeting to discuss this issue is desired. Most clients who express a need
would be willing to listen to a proposal about solving that need. ATTEN DIN G CLIEN T IN D U STR Y M EETIN G S A valuable opportunity to listen to clients talk about their
challenges, interests and needs is to go where they go to discuss such subjects, that is, to their industry or trade meetings. My clients report to me that the value of attending
such meetings is greatly enhanced if the profes­ sional attends with a respected client, so that an instantaneous eval­ uation through the client’s eyes of materials and ideas
presented from the speakers’ podium can be obtained. (“ Do you agree with what that speaker said? Do you think you’ll have to deal with that? What does this really mean for you?”
). Such conversations can only enhance the professional’s own evaluation and interpretation of subjects covered at such meetings. Naturally, the value of attending the client
industry meeting is greatly enhanced if the professional attending has an obligation to circulate within the firm a written summary of the intelligence gath­ ered. M A RK ET RESEA
RCH In most industries, formal (often third-party) market research is a primary means of listening to the market. In the professional service world, it continues to play an
important role, but often has a slightly different purpose. Almost by definition, professional service firms do not serve a mass market. Each of their projects, engagements, or
“matters” is custom­ ized to specific client needs. Accordingly, that form of market research which provides aggregated results of what large numbers of clients 66 M anaging the P
rofessional Service F irm “think” about various issues tends not to be as directly helpful as it may be in other situations. This is not to say that there is no role for market
research, but that the more disaggregated methodologies (such as focus groups) may be more applicable for professional environ­ ments. Focus groups work well, I have learned,
particularly if the clients participating consent to be videotaped. A tape of clients expressing their needs, concerns, and challenges has a much greater impact on professionals
than numbers on a page, no matter how sta­ tistically valid. SEN IO R PA RTN ER V IS IT S TO K EY CLIEN TS A major, and common, form of listening to clients is a more or less
formal program of visits to key clients by senior partners of the firm (or, if the firm is not a partnership, then by office or practice managers or “executive committee” members).
Frequently these “visits” are conducted not in the client’s offices, but over dinner. The virtues of this practice include not only quality assurance (“How are our people serving
you? Are you getting all you need from them?” ), but also the opportunity to converse on the longer term is­ sues that it might be difficult for the engagement team to do. Fre­
quently, the professional firm’s senior partners or managers can, because of their position, arrange meetings “higher up” in the client organization than can the engagement team
leader, thus gaining ex­ posure to a broader and deeper view of the client’s challenges, con­ cerns, and needs. EN GAG EM EN T T EA M D EBRIEFIN G S At the best professional
service firms, it is routine practice to require that, at the end of each and every client project, the engagement leader will sit down with the client to obtain the client’s
feedback on what went well, what less well, and how the engagement might have been improved. These discussions might cover not only the technical qual­ ity (and success) of the
project, but also how the professional firm’s interface with the client might be improved. These conversations, if conducted with candor, are often the source not only of good
ideas for improvement that can be deployed on sub­ sequent engagements, but (I have heard repeatedly from my clients) Listening to Clients 67 often highlight additional unresolved
issues (perhaps not formally within the scope of the current engagement) that represent immediate new business for the professional firm. The power of these debriefings is such
that some of my clients im­ pose a firmwide requirement on their professional staff to file a de­ briefing report so that ideas for improvement obtained from their clients are
formally captured and become part of the intellectual cap­ ital of the firm. Such a requirement ensures that the debriefing meet­ ings are indeed held on a routine basis, and that
there is a mechanism for capturing and disseminating the feedback obtained. SY ST E M A T IC CLIENT FEED BA C K As valuable as engagement debriefings can be, another form of client
feedback can be even more powerful: a system whereby the firm adopts a mandatory policy of sending a questionnaire to clients at the end of each engagement, inviting the client to
evaluate the firm. (For a specific sample of such a questionnaire, see Chapter 8, A Service Quality Program.) Although common in the general consumer service world, such feedback
questionnaires are as yet uncommon among professional firms. They are frequently resisted on the grounds that they are “un­ professional,” and represent a poor substitute for
person-to-person means of getting feedback such as engagement debriefings. Recognizing that one device is not a substitute for the other, but rather a complement, we must ask what
a questionnaire will accom­ plish if engagement debriefings are already being performed. The an­ swer is that the questionnaire comes to the client from the firm, not the
individual, and may solicit comments that the client might not be willing to express face-to-face. Second, the questionnaire is an insti­ tutional mechanism, and helps accomplish
the goal of firmwide qual­ ity assurance, as well as providing a means for the firm to systematically track its quality performance, watching for trends (and hence opportunities
for improvement that might not be highlighted with a series of engagement debriefings). Finally, the questionnaire itself, the act of asking for feedback, signals to clients a
willingness to listen and respond. 68 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm CONCLUSION The mechanisms described here are not new. Individual examples of each tactic can be
found in many separate firms. In all good firms, individual practitioners are actively listening to their personal clients. What may be missing in these firms, however, is a
mechanism to as­ sem ble each of these data points, these specific pieces of client intelli­ gence, and transform them into useful information that the firm can use to improve its
performance and plan its strategies. It is this need not only to get client feedback, but to use it, that constitutes the challenge to professional firms today. A firm that put
together a full program using most, if not all, of the elements de­ scribed above would indeed have a competitive advantage. CHAPTER 7 QUALITY WORK DOESN’T MEAN QUALITY SERVICE
Consider the following scenario: You have had your car repaired at a new local garage. A week or two later, your neighbor, curious about whether she should also use this new
garage, asks, “Did they fix the car?” “I think so,” you reply. “It seems to be running smoothly, so I guess they did a good job.” Then your neighbor asks an interesting second
question: “Did you get good service?” What does this second question mean? Surely, fixing the car is the service, isn’t it? Well, yes and no. Fixing the car is part of it, and an
important part it is, but by itself it doesn’t constitute good service. Your neighbor is asking about a whole range of other activities that influence your satisfaction with the
service providers. Were they ac­ cessible? Was it easy to make an appointment? Did they deal with the matter expeditiously? Did they take the time to explain to you (in language
appropriate to your level of understanding) what they had found, what, precisely, they did, and why? When you first approached them, did they ask intelligent questions about
symptoms, trying to come up with an informed guess as to the scope of the problem? Or did they just say, “Leave it with us and we’ll get back to you,” sending you away to worry
about how big a prob­ lem you had and how much it might end up costing? Did they make you feel as if your car was just one more job to be done, or did they 69 70 M anaging the P
rofessional Service F irm convey the impression that they wanted your business? Did they deal with you with an appropriate mix of respect and friendliness? If complications arose,
did they make strenuous efforts to contact you, inform you of developments, and involve you in the decision as to what to do next? Or did they make all the decisions for you,
failing to distinguish between mandatory and precautionary measures and leaving you with a feeling that you might end up paying for work that wasn’t truly necessary? Was it easy to
settle the bill and understand the charges? Did they provide advice as to how to prevent recurrence of the problem, or to avert other potential problems detected in the course of
the repairs? As these questions show, the practical meaning of good service in car repair extends far beyond technical excellence in servicing the car. It is necessary to service
not only the car, but also the customer. In­ deed, it may be more important to excel at servicing the customer. Many customers are unable to distinguish between outstanding tech­
nical work and the simply competent: In choosing garages, they may pay more attention to the quality of service received than the quality of work performed—which, of course, is not
the same thing. And even if the customers are sufficiently sophisticated to distinguish between outstanding and competent work, their technical needs may call for only the
competent: They know that any number of providers can fix the car, and, rather than seek out the most highly qualified (and prob­ ably most highly priced) technician in town, these
intelligent consum­ ers will appraise providers along a number of dimensions, including responsiveness, attitude, and other nontechnical “service” criteria. The lessons from this
example extend far beyond the car-repair industry. They apply to all service industries, and most significantly to the professions. Firms that provide legal counsel, tax advice,
invest­ ment banking services, advertising services, and consulting services all share with our garage mechanic the need to service the client as well as the car. The questions
posed above could all be equally well asked of a professional service provider, and they provide a useful guide to the client’s perception of the quality of the professional
service. I, the client, may think my provider did a good technical job at dealing with the professional matter, but as with the car repair, I am not an expert. However, with the
unfolding of time I will learn more, as the car does or does not continue to run well, as my legal contracts do or do not Qual i ty Wor k D o e s n ' t Mean Quality Service 71
result in problems, as my tax arrangements do or do not result in financial benefit, as my merger attempts are successful, and so on. But even time may not allow me to judge
unequivocally whether my professional service provider rendered truly superior advice: A large number of contingencies can cloud my ability to assess the work per­ formed. Even
with the most brilliant legal mind on my side, I may lose the case; even the most superior consulting talent available may not prevent me from making what turned out to be a false
strategic move. How, then, am I to appraise my service provider? Whether logical or illogical, sensible or not, even the most sophis­ ticated client will, in such an environment,
come to focus more heavily on the quality of service than on the quality of work. Because of the ambiguity that surrounds technical excellence (and the difficulty the client has in
appraising it), the personal relationship between the cli­ ent and the provider takes on great significance in all of the profes­ sions. Just as with my garage mechanic, when I
find a professional service provider whom I trust, in whom I can have confidence, and who pro­ vides me with peace of mind and reassurance, I will tend to remain with that
provider. Indeed, on most technical or professional matters outside my own area of expertise, I am as much shopping for trust, confidence, peace of mind, and reassurance as I am
for “cold” tech­ nical expertise. As all clients do, I consider style, manner, and, above all, attitude in choosing professional service providers. It is important to note that
while goods are consumed, services are experienced. The professional service provider is (or should be) as much in the business of managing the client’s experience with respect to
professional services as in the business of executing technical tasks. Much of the previous discussion can be summarized by what I have come to call “The First Law of Service,”
expressed as a formula: SATISFACTION equals PERCEPTION minus EXPECTATION If the client perceives service at a certain level but expected something more (or different), then he or
she will be dissatisfied. The significance of this seemingly simple formula is contained in the observation that neither perception nor expectation necessarily reflects reality.
Both are experiential, psychological states of mind. Accordingly, the central challenge to service organizations is to man­ 72 M anaging the P rofessional Service F irm age not
only the substance of what they do for clients but also to manage clients’ expectations and perceptions. Consider the restaurant chain that consistently overestimates the time it
will take for a table to become free. They lose some customers, but those who remain are seated before they expected: a pleasant surprise and a good beginning to the service
encounter. Trivial? Perhaps, but a pleased client is easier to keep pleased than one who is in a state of annoyance and impa­ tience because he was led to believe that service
would begin earlier than it did. My late colleague Daryl Wyckoff told the story of checking out of a hotel in San Francisco and commenting to the clerk on the beauty of the view
from his room window. The next time he stayed there, he was greeted, “Welcome, Professor Wyckoff. We have assigned you the room with the view that you liked so much.” A powerful
service ex­ perience, and one that is relatively simple to arrange, given the orga­ nization’s desire to please. The most important of perceptions and expectations is not re­
stricted to consumer services such as these. It is possible (indeed, all too common in the professional service sector) that the professional does substantively superior work but
that this is not perceived by the client. Or, in another case, the professional may invest significant amounts of time and effort in dealing with unforeseen contingencies but,
because the client did not expect the contingencies, he or she is irritated by the extra delay and expense rather than thankful for the abilities of the professional. This isn’t
solely a matter of unsophisticated clients being unable to appreciate what is truly being done for them. In case after case, I have heard stories (and observed examples) of
professionals so completely oriented to their own values (e.g., pride in technical craftsmanship) that the clients’ true needs are placed second to the professional’s desire to
create a monument to his or her technical ability. “We could do great work,” I have heard frequently, “if the client did not keep getting in the way.” Architects run the risk of
falling in love with their artistic designs, lawyers with the elegance of their briefs, consultants with the sophistication of their analyses, all to the exclusion of con­
sideration of what the client needs and expects or of how the client perceives the provider’s efforts. The need to be “client centered” is a constant theme of modern management
writings, and it is the professional service sector that is in Quality Wor k D o e s n ' t Me a n Qual i ty S e r v i c e 73 most urgent need of hearing this message. Because of
the proclivity of professionals to become more fascinated with the intellectual chal­ lenge of their craft than with being responsive to clients, all too often clients are mocked
for their lack of professional knowledge, despised because of their demands, and resented because they control the purse strings and hence the autonomy of the professional. There
is an old saw in the medical profession that the three most important keys to success are availability, affability, and ability— in that order. The same profound insight can be
equally well applied to other professions. In all professions, clients gripe that “they do great work, but you can never get hold of them. They don’t return my phone calls!”
Another common complaint is “I wish they would keep me informed of progress. This may be just another engagement to them, but to me it’s critical. I want to know what’s going on.”
This last statement is particularly telling. People and organizations turn to professional service providers for matters of significant uncer­ tainty, importance, and risk. It is
this atmosphere of risk and impor­ tance that makes them prepared to pay the traditionally high fees of the professional service sector. Whether it is health, legal concerns,
finances, office accommodations, internal organization, or advertis­ ing, clients of professional service firms are almost by definition in a state of anxiety and nervousness: They
need to be confident that they are in good hands. The slogan of one rapidly growing professional service firm I have studied is “People don’t care how much you know until they know
how much you care”— a cute phrase but an impor­ tant one. Clients of professional service firms want to know that they are not being lost in the shuffle. They want to know that
their matter is receiving the attention it deserves. The professional service firm that is adept at projecting a caring image, and that backs the image up with a substantive
reality, will do well in the marketplace. The importance to clients of how they are treated is not restricted to unsophisticated buyers. Consider again our car-repair example. To
the mechanically unsophisticated, good service may mean clean facil­ ities, a pleasant receptionist, understandable explanations, fast turn­ around, and convenient access. To the
automobile buff who performs minor repairs himself, good service will mean the opportunity to be involved with decisions, to discuss with the mechanics the intricacies of the
problem, and to walk around the repair shop. The technical neophyte might be intimidated by a dirty-fingered engineer speaking 74 M anaging the P rofessional S ervice F irm
technical language; the initiate might be offended by the unnecessary frills of receptionists, free cups of coffee, and nontechnical descrip­ tions. The point is that both types
will be concerned with how they are dealt with—how oriented the organization is to their specific needs and preferred style of interaction. Both will be concerned not only with the
content of the transaction— getting the car fixed (or the legal matter handled or the accounts audited)— but also with the process by which this is accomplished. Each may wish to
be treated in a different manner, but each will want to be treated well. In many professions, the importance of understanding that differ­ ent clients want to be treated
differently is becoming accentuated. Corporations are becoming more sophisticated purchasers of profes­ sional services, often with in-house capabilities to handle selected mat­
ters. While in the past a lawyer dealt directly with a senior executive, outside counsel now often have to work through in-house counsel. The in-house lawyer is in effect the
client and will expect to be dealt with in a different manner than a general manager. Similarly, in in­ vestment banking, consulting, and architecture, chief financial offic­ ers,
planning departments, and facility-planning committees are, respectively, beginning to act as knowledgeable clients. In all cases, the message is the same: The nature of the client
has changed, and hence the process of interaction must change. Precise definitions of “good service” must evolve. The professional can no longer assume that the client will place
trust, confidence, and respect in him or her. Power, in all professions, is moving from the professional to the client. The professional firm must increasingly demonstrate a
willing­ ness to be cooperative, responsive, and adaptable in order to win the confidence of today’s client. What, in concrete terms, can be done? For many firms, a wide range of
seemingly trivial but practically powerful actions are possible. One lawyer in a large firm relates the following anecdote: “One of our competitors [in real estate transactions]
makes it a common practice to get a copy of the deal into the hands of their client within twentyfour hours of the closing of the deal. We think we write better con­ tracts with
more protection for our clients, but there is no denying that their clients are impressed. We are told that they have a better reputation for quality of service than we do.” A fine
example of the gap between perceptions and reality: If my friend’s firm wants to keep Quality Wo r k D o e s n ' t M e a n Q u a l i t y S e r v i c e 75 its clients, perhaps it
could do a better job of managing the expecta­ tions of its clients—clearly explaining how long it will take to produce a copy of the deal and why it is in the client’s interest to
wait the extra few days. The key is anticipating the client’s perceptions and reactions and explicitly dealing with them in advance. The prescription is clear: Discuss at the
earliest possible point all potential roadblocks, detours, and contingencies that may arise, and make it clear how your firm will handle them. There is a danger that in a vigorous
attempt to win new clients, excessive promises may be made, creating expectations that cannot be fulfilled. One professional I know describes the syndrome this way: “The most
depressing day in the office is the day after we have won a new client. We all look at each other and say, ‘How on earth are we going to deliver all we promised for the budget we
agreed to?’ ” Client expectations can also be managed by vigorous efforts at keeping the client informed as to developments, progress, and discre­ tionary decisions. One
professional I spoke with describes his tech­ niques as follows: “Whenever I reach a decision point, I call the client, lay out the alternatives, make a recommendation, then ask
