rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Washington
A Life

Ron Chernow
The Penguin Press
New York
2 010

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Washington

A lso by Ron Cher now
Alexander Hamilton
Titan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr.
The Death of the Banker: The Decline and Fall of the
Great Financial Dynasties and the Triumph of the Small Investor
The Warburgs: The Twentieth-Century Odyssey of
a Remarkable Jewish Family
The House of Morgan: An American Banking Dynasty
and the Rise of Modern Finance

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Washington
A Life

Ron Chernow
The Penguin Press
New York
2 010

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

the penguin press
Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Group (USA) Inc., 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014, U.S.A. s
Penguin Group (Canada), 90 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 700, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada M4P 2Y3 (a division of Pearson Penguin Canada Inc.) s Penguin Books Ltd,
80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL, England s Penguin Ireland, 25 St. Stephen’s Green,
Dublin 2, Ireland (a division of Penguin Books Ltd) s Penguin Books Australia Ltd,
250 Camberwell Road, Camberwell, Victoria 3124, Australia (a division of
Pearson Australia Group Pty Ltd) s Penguin Books India Pvt Ltd, 11 Community
Centre, Panchsheel Park, New Delhi–110 017, India s Penguin Group (NZ), 67
Apollo Drive, Rosedale, North Shore 0632, New Zealand (a division of Pearson
New Zealand Ltd) s Penguin Books (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd, 24 Sturdee Avenue,
Rosebank, Johannesburg 2196, South Africa
Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Ofﬁces:
80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL, England
First published in 2010 by The Penguin Press,
a member of Penguin Group (USA) Inc.
Copyright © Ron Chernow, 2010
All rights reserved
Illustration credits appear on pages 869–72.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Chernow, Ron.
Washington : a life / Ron Chernow.
p. cm.
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 1-101-44018-x
1. Washington, George, 1732–1799. 2. Presidents—United States—Biography. I. Title.
E312.C495 2010
973.4'1092—dc22
[B]
2010019154
de signed by mary sarah q uinn
Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above, no part of this publication
may be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any
form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise),
without the prior written permission of both the copyright owner and the above publisher
of this book.
The scanning, uploading, and distribution of this book via the Internet or via any other
means without the permission of the publisher is illegal and punishable by law. Please purchase only authorized electronic editions and do not participate in or encourage electronic
piracy of copyrightable materials. Your support of the author’s rights is appreciated.

To Valerie, in Memoriam

Simple truth is his best, his greatest eulogy.
—A biga il A da ms, speaking of George Washington after his death

Contents

author’s note

xv

prelude: The Portrait Artist

xvii

part one : The Frontiersman
one: A Short-Lived Family
two: Fortune’s Favorite
three: Wilderness Mission
four: Bloodbath
ﬁve: Shades of Death
six: The Soul of an Army
seven: A Votary to Love
eight: Darling of a Grateful Country

3
15
29
39
52
63
76
87

part t wo : The Planter
nine: The Man of Mode
ten: A Certain Species of Property
eleven: The Prodigy
twelve: Providence
thirteen: A World of His Own
fourteen: The Asiatic Prince
ﬁfteen: A Shock of Electricity

97
109
121
127
136
152
165

part three : The General
sixteen: The Glorious Cause
seventeen: Magniﬁcent Bluff
eighteen: Land of Freedom
nineteen: The Heights
twenty: All London Aﬂoat
twenty-one: Disaster
twenty-two: An Indecisive Mind
twenty-three: The Crossing
twenty-four: The Busy Scenes of a Camp
twenty-ﬁve: Darkness Visible
twenty-six: Rapping a Demigod over the Knuckles
twenty-seven: A Dreary Kind of Place
twenty-eight: The Long Retreat
twenty-nine: Pests of Society
thirty: The Storm Thickens
thirty-one: The Traitor
thirty-two: Mutiny
thirty-three: Plundering Scoundrels
thirty-four: The World Turned Upside Down
thirty-ﬁve: Man of Moderation
thirty-six: Closing the Drama with Applause
thirty-seven: Cincinnatus

181
194
206
222
234
244
257
269
285
300
312
323
337
347
358
371
388
398
406
424
437
448

part four : The Statesman
thirty-eight: American Celebrity
thirty-nine: Gentleman Farmer
forty: Devil’s Bargain
forty-one: The Ruins of the Past
forty-two: A Masterly Hand
forty-three: A House on Fire
forty-four: Rising Sun
forty-ﬁve: Mounting the Seat

461
476
485
497
508
520
533
542

part fiv e : The President
forty-six: The Place of Execution
forty-seven: Acting the Presidency
forty-eight: The Cares of Ofﬁce
forty-nine: Rays of Genius
ﬁfty: The Traveling Presidency
ﬁfty-one: The State of the President
ﬁfty-two: Capital Matters
ﬁfty-three: Southern Exposure
ﬁfty-four: Running into Extremes
ﬁfty-ﬁve: A Tissue of Machinations
ﬁfty-six: Citizen Genet
ﬁfty-seven: Bring Out Your Dead
ﬁfty-eight: Hercules in the Field
ﬁfty-nine: Crowns and Coronets
sixty: Mad Dog
sixty-one: The Colossus of the People
sixty-two: The Master of Farewells
sixty-three: Exiting the Stage

559
574
586
595
608
618
629
642
656
669
684
700
711
723
729
740
752
764

part six: The Legend
sixty-four: Samson and Solomon
sixty-ﬁve: A Mind on the Stretch
sixty-six: Freedom
sixty-seven: Homecoming

775
792
799
805

Acknowledgments
Notes
Bibliography
Books
Articles
Index

819
823
859
859
864
873

Author’s Note

Since I quote extensively from George Washington’s vast correspondence, I have taken the liberty of modernizing the spelling
and punctuation of the eighteenth-century prose. A biographer
hesitates to forfeit the special period ﬂavor that comes from preserving all the oddities of contemporary writing. But all too often, Washington’s muscular style can seem awkward and stilted
to modern readers because of the way he distributed his commas,
for instance, whereas the writing suddenly becomes smooth and
ﬂowing with more familiar punctuation. Occasionally I retain the
quirks of the original spelling in order to highlight the eccentricity or lack of education of the personality in question. Throughout the text, the actual wording has been exactly reproduced.

prelude

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

The Portrait Artist

I n M a rc h 1793 Gilbert Stuart crossed the North Atlantic for the express purpose of painting President George Washington, the supreme prize of the age for
any ambitious portrait artist. Though born in Rhode Island and reared in Newport, Stuart had escaped to the cosmopolitan charms of London during the war
and spent eighteen years producing portraits of British and Irish grandees. Overly
fond of liquor, prodigal in his spending habits, and with a giant brood of children
to support, Stuart had landed in the Marshalsea Prison in Dublin, most likely for
debt, just as Washington was being sworn in as ﬁrst president of the United States
in 1789.
For the impulsive, unreliable Stuart, who left a trail of incomplete paintings
and irate clients in his wake, George Washington emerged as the savior who would
rescue him from insistent creditors. “When I can net a sum sufﬁcient to take me to
America, I shall be off to my native soil,” he conﬁded eagerly to a friend. “There I
expect to make a fortune by Washington alone. I calculate upon making a plurality
of his portraits . . . and if I should be fortunate, I will repay my English and Irish
creditors.”1 In a self-portrait daubed years earlier, Stuart presented himself as a restless soul, with tousled reddish-brown hair, keen blue eyes, a strongly marked nose,
and a pugnacious chin. This harried, disheveled man was scarcely the sort to appeal
to the immaculately formal George Washington.
Once installed in New York, Stuart mapped out a path to Washington with the
thoroughness of a military campaign. He stalked Washington’s trusted friend Chief
Justice John Jay and rendered a brilliant portrait of him, seated in the full majesty
of his judicial robes. Shortly afterward Stuart had in hand the treasured letter of

x v iii

r! Prelude

introduction from Jay to President Washington that would unlock the doors of the
executive residence in Philadelphia, then the temporary capital.
As a portraitist, the garrulous Stuart had perfected a technique to penetrate his
subjects’ defenses. He would disarm them with a steady stream of personal anecdotes and irreverent wit, hoping that this glib patter would coax them into selfrevelation. In the taciturn George Washington, a man of granite self-control and a
stranger to spontaneity, Gilbert Stuart met his match. From boyhood, Washington
had struggled to master and conceal his deep emotions. When the wife of the British ambassador later told him that his face showed pleasure at his forthcoming
departure from the presidency, Washington grew indignant: “You are wrong. My
countenance never yet betrayed my feelings!”2 He tried to govern his tongue as
much as his face: “With me it has always been a maxim rather to let my designs appear from my works than by my expressions.”3
When Washington swept into his ﬁrst session with Stuart, the artist was awestruck by the tall, commanding president. Predictably, the more Stuart tried to pry
open his secretive personality, the tighter the president clamped it shut. Stuart’s
opening gambit backﬁred. “Now, sir,” Stuart instructed his sitter, “you must let me
forget that you are General Washington and that I am Stuart, the painter.” To which
Washington retorted drily that Mr. Stuart need not forget “who he is or who General Washington is.”4
A master at sizing people up, Washington must have cringed at Stuart’s facile
bonhomie, not to mention his drinking, snuff taking, and ceaseless chatter. With
Washington, trust had to be earned slowly, and he balked at instant familiarity with
people. Instead of opening up with Stuart, he retreated behind his stolid mask.
The scourge of artists, Washington knew how to turn himself into an impenetrable
monument long before an obelisk arose in his honor in the nation’s capital.
As Washington sought to maintain his defenses, Stuart made the brilliant decision to capture the subtle interplay between his outward calm and his intense hidden
emotions, a tension that deﬁned the man. He spied the extraordinary force of personality lurking behind an extremely restrained facade. The mouth might be compressed, the parchment skin drawn tight over ungainly dentures, but Washington’s
eyes still blazed from his craggy face. In the enduring image that Stuart captured
and that ended up on the one-dollar bill—a magniﬁcent statement of Washington’s
moral stature and sublime, visionary nature—he also recorded something hard
and suspicious in the wary eyes with their penetrating gaze and hooded lids.
With the swift insight of artistic genius, Stuart grew convinced that Washington
was not the placid and composed ﬁgure he presented to the world. In the words of a
mutual acquaintance, Stuart had insisted that “there are features in [Washington’s]
face totally different from what he ever observed in that of any other human being;

The Portrait Artist r! x i x

the sockets of the eyes, for instance, are larger than he ever met with before, and
the upper part of the nose broader. All his features, [Stuart] observed, were indicative of the strongest and most ungovernable passions, and had he been born in the
forests, it was his opinion that [Washington] would have been the ﬁercest man
among the savage tribes.” The acquaintance conﬁrmed that Washington’s intimates
thought him “by nature a man of ﬁerce and irritable disposition, but that, like Socrates, his judgment and great self-command have always made him appear a man
of a different cast in the eyes of the world.”5
Although many contemporaries were fooled by Washington’s aura of cool
command, those who knew him best shared Stuart’s view of a sensitive, complex
ﬁgure, full of pent-up passion. “His temper was naturally high-toned [that is, highstrung], but reﬂection and resolution had obtained a ﬁrm and habitual ascendency
over it,” wrote Thomas Jefferson. “If ever, however, it broke its bonds, he was most
tremendous in wrath.”6 John Adams concurred. “He had great self-command . . .
but to preserve so much equanimity as he did required a great capacity. Whenever
he lost his temper, as he did sometimes, either love or fear in those about him induced them to conceal his weakness from the world.”7 Gouverneur Morris agreed
that Washington had “the tumultuous passions which accompany greatness and
frequently tarnish its luster. With them was his ﬁrst contest, and his ﬁrst victory
was over himself . . . Yet those who have seen him strongly moved will bear witness
that his wrath was terrible. They have seen, boiling in his bosom, passion almost
too mighty for man.”8
So adept was Washington at masking these turbulent emotions behind his fabled reserve that he ranks as the most famously elusive ﬁgure in American history,
a remote, enigmatic personage more revered than truly loved. He seems to lack
the folksy appeal of an Abraham Lincoln, the robust vigor of a Teddy Roosevelt,
or the charming ﬁnesse of a Franklin Roosevelt. In fact, George Washington has
receded so much in our collective memory that he has become an impossibly stiff
and inﬂexible ﬁgure, composed of too much marble to be quite human. How this
seemingly dull, phlegmatic man, in a stupendous act of nation building, presided
over the victorious Continental Army and forged the ofﬁce of the presidency is a
mystery to most Americans. Something essential about Washington has been lost
to posterity, making him seem a worthy but plodding man who somehow stumbled
into greatness.
From a laudable desire to venerate Washington, we have sanded down the rough
edges of his personality and made him difﬁcult to grasp. He joined in this conspiracy to make himself unknowable. Where other founders gloried in their displays of
intellect, Washington’s strategy was the opposite: the less people knew about him,
the more he thought he could accomplish. Opacity was his means of enhancing his

xx

r! Prelude

power and inﬂuencing events. Where Franklin, Hamilton, or Adams always sparkled in print or in person, the laconic Washington had no need to ﬂaunt his virtues
or ﬁll conversational silences. Instead, he wanted the public to know him as a public
man, concerned with the public weal and transcending egotistical needs.
Washington’s lifelong struggle to control his emotions speaks to the issue of
how he exercised leadership as a politician, a soldier, a planter, and even a slaveholder. People felt the inner force of his nature, even if they didn’t exactly hear
it or see it; they sensed his moods without being told. In studying his life, one is
struck not only by his colossal temper but by his softer emotions: this man of deep
feelings was sensitive to the delicate nuances of relationships and prone to tears as
well as temper. He learned how to exploit his bottled-up emotions to exert his will
and inspire and motivate people. If he aroused universal admiration, it was often
accompanied by a touch of fear and anxiety. His contemporaries admired him not
because he was a plaster saint or an empty uniform but because they sensed his unseen power. As the Washington scholar W. W. Abbot noted, “An important element
in Washington’s leadership both as a military commander and as President was his
digniﬁed, even forbidding, demeanor, his aloofness, the distance he consciously set
and maintained between himself and nearly all the rest of the world.”9
The goal of the present biography is to create a fresh portrait of Washington that
will make him real, credible, and charismatic in the same way that he was perceived
by his contemporaries. By gleaning anecdotes and quotes from myriad sources, especially from hundreds of eyewitness accounts, I have tried to make him vivid and
immediate, rather than the lifeless waxwork he has become for many Americans,
and thereby elucidate the secrets of his uncanny ability to lead a nation. His unerring judgment, sterling character, rectitude, steadfast patriotism, unﬂagging sense
of duty, and civic-mindedness—these exemplary virtues were achieved only by his
ability to subdue the underlying volatility of his nature and direct his entire psychological makeup to the single-minded achievement of a noble cause.
A man capable of constant self-improvement, Washington grew in stature
throughout his life. This growth went on subtly, at times imperceptibly, beneath the
surface, making Washington the most interior of the founders. His real passions
and often ﬁery opinions were typically conﬁned to private letters rather than public utterances. During the Revolution and his presidency, the public Washington
needed to be upbeat and inspirational, whereas the private man was often gloomy,
scathing, hot-blooded, and pessimistic.
For this reason, the new edition of the papers of George Washington, started
in 1968 and one of the great ongoing scholarly labors of our time, has provided
an extraordinary window into his mind. The indefatigable team of scholars at the
University of Virginia has laid a banquet table for Washington biographers and

The Portrait Artist r! x x i

made somewhat outmoded the monumental Washington biographies of the midtwentieth century: the seven volumes published by Douglas Southall Freeman
(1948–57) and the four volumes by James T. Flexner (1965–72). This book is based
on a close reading of the sixty volumes of letters and diaries published so far in the
new edition, supplemented by seventeen volumes from the older edition to cover
the historical gaps. Never before have we had access to so much material about so
many aspects of Washington’s public and private lives.
In recent decades, many ﬁne short biographies of Washington have appeared
as well as perceptive studies of particular events, themes, or periods in his life. My
intention is to produce a large-scale, one-volume, cradle-to-grave narrative that
will be both dramatic and authoritative, encompassing the explosion of research
in recent decades that has enriched our understanding of Washington as never before. The upshot, I hope, will be that readers, instead of having a frosty respect for
Washington, will experience a visceral appreciation of this foremost American who
scaled the highest peak of political greatness.

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
pa r t on e

The Frontiersman

The earliest known portrait of George Washington,
dressed in his old uniform from the French and Indian War,
painted by Charles Willson Peale in 1772.

chapter one

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

A Short-Lived Family

Th e c row de d c a r e e r of George Washington afforded him little leisure to
indulge his vanity or gratify his curiosity by conducting genealogical research into
his family. As he admitted sheepishly when president, “This is a subject to which I
confess I have paid very little attention. My time has been so much occupied in the
busy and active scenes of life from an early period of it that but a small portion of
it could have been devoted to researches of this nature.”1
The ﬁrst Washington to claim our attention was, ironically, the casualty of a
rebellion against royal authority. During the English Civil War, Lawrence Washington, George’s great-great-grandfather and an Anglican minister, was hounded
from his parish in the Puritan cleansing of the Church of England under Oliver
Cromwell. This shattered a cozy existence that intermingled learning with modest
wealth. Lawrence had spent the better part of his childhood at the family residence,
Sulgrave Manor near Banbury in Oxfordshire, before earning two degrees at
Brasenose College, Oxford; he later served as a fellow of the college and a university
proctor. Persecuted by the Puritans as one of the “scandalous, malignant priests,”
he was accused of being “a common frequenter of alehouses,” which was likely a
trumped-up charge.2 His travails may have spurred his son John to seek his fortune
in the burgeoning tobacco trade with North America. After landing in Tidewater
Virginia in late 1656, John Washington settled at Bridges Creek, hard by the Potomac River in Westmoreland County. Less a committed colonist than a temporary
castaway, John was stranded when heavy squalls grounded his ship and soaked its
precious cargo of tobacco, prompting him to tarry in Virginia.
One marvels at the speed with which the young man prospered in the New

4

r! The Frontiersm a n

World, exhibiting certain traits—a bottomless appetite for land, an avidity for public ofﬁce, and a zest for frontier combat—that foreshadowed his great-grandson’s
rapid ascent in the world. John also set a precedent of social mobility through military laurels after he was recruited to ﬁght Indians in Maryland and was rewarded
with a colonel’s rank. In this rough-and-tumble world, he was accused of slaughtering ﬁve Indian emissaries and cheating tribes of land, activities that won him the
baleful Indian nickname of Conotocarious, which meant “Destroyer of Villages”
or “Town Devourer.”3 He also found time to woo and wed Anne Pope, whose wellheeled father favored the newlyweds with seven hundred acres of land. John piled
up an impressive roster of the sort of local ofﬁces—justice of the peace, burgess in
the Virginia assembly, lieutenant colonel in the county militia—that signiﬁed social
standing in colonial Virginia. Most conspicuous was his omnivorous craving for
land. By importing sixty-three indentured servants from England, he capitalized
upon a British law that granted ﬁfty acres to each immigrant, and he eventually
amassed more than ﬁve thousand acres, with the single largest property bordering
the Potomac River at Little Hunting Creek, the future site of Mount Vernon.
After his wife died, John Washington married, in quick succession, a pair of
lusty sisters who had been accused, respectively, of running a brothel and engaging in adulterous relations with the governor. Coincidentally, both scandal-ridden
women had appeared before him in his guise as justice of the peace. In 1677 John
succumbed at age forty-six to a fatal disease, likely typhoid fever, setting an enduring pattern of shortened life expectancy for Washington males in America. By then
he had struggled his way up to the second-tier gentry, an uncertain stratum that
would endow George Washington with a modicum of money, while also instilling a
restless yearning to advance into the uppermost ranks of Virginia grandees.
It was John’s eldest son from his ﬁrst marriage, Lawrence Washington, who inherited the bulk of his father’s estate and became paternal grandfather of the ﬁrst
president. With the monarchy restored in England, Lawrence had been educated
in the mother country before settling in Virginia, where he, too, collected an array
of local posts—justice of the peace, burgess, and sheriff—that complemented his
work as an attorney. If John furnished the family with a tenuous foothold in the
gentry, Lawrence added a patina of social distinction by marrying Mildred Warner,
daughter of a member of the prestigious King’s Council. When he expired in 1698
at thirty-eight, Lawrence perpetuated the grim tradition of Washington men dying
young.
Lawrence Washington’s untimely death occurred when his second son,
Augustine—the future father of George Washington—was only three or four years
old. After his widow, Mildred, married George Gale, a British ship captain from
Whitehaven, a port on the Cumberland coast, she sailed there with him and her

A Short-Lived Family r! 5

three children in late May 1700. Already pregnant during the voyage, she died in
January 1701, not long after her arrival in England, and her newborn daughter followed her shortly thereafter. For the next two or three years, Gale placed Augustine
and his older brother John in the Appleby Grammar School in County Westmorland, a scenic spot east of the English Lake District. The school provided a classical
education, with a heavy emphasis on Latin. When Mildred’s three children were
ensnared in a protracted legal tussle over their inheritance, they were shipped back
to Virginia under a court order.
Raw-boned and good-natured, Augustine Washington remains a shadowy ﬁgure in the family saga, little more than a hazy but sunlit memory for his famous
son. A strapping man, six feet tall with a fair complexion, he was favored with that
brand of rustic strength that breeds backwoods legends. The sole contemporary
description avers that he could “raise up and place in a wagon a mass of iron that
two ordinary men could barely raise from the ground,” yet he balanced this notable
brawn with a mild-mannered demeanor that made his manly strength the more
becoming.4 No less community-minded than his Washington forebears, he was
named a justice of the peace and sat on the county court.
From spotty early records, Augustine emerges as a remorseless, hard-driving
businessman. He started with 1,100 acres that he inherited along the Potomac and
augmented that with 1,750 acres from the dowry of his ﬁrst wife, Jane Butler. He
specialized in tobacco farming until he began snapping up properties rich in iron
ore at Accokeek Creek, near Fredericksburg. In 1729 he traveled to England to seal
a contract with the Principio Company, which owned iron operations in Virginia
and Maryland. By the time he returned to Virginia, his wife had died, saddling him
with the care of three small children: two sons, Lawrence and Augustine Jr. (often
called Austin), and a daughter, Jane. Minding children on his own wasn’t an option
for a hard-pressed colonial widower, and Augustine may not have been overly fussy
in his urgent quest to ﬁnd a country bride. On March 6, 1731, the thirty-sevenyear-old Augustine married Mary Johnson Ball, a pious, headstrong woman who
would exert a profound formative inﬂuence on her son George. At twenty-three,
Mary was already slightly old for marriage, which may say something about her
feisty personality or about Augustine’s hopeful conviction that he could tame this
indomitable woman.
Mary Ball was born in 1708 into a situation that skirted the edge of local scandal.
Her English-born father, Joseph Ball, a thriving businessman, had settled on the
Potomac, married, and raised several children before his wife’s death. Lonesome at
ﬁfty-eight, he then shocked propriety and threatened his children’s inheritance by
wedding an illiterate woman named Mary Johnson. Their daughter, Mary Ball, was
only three when her elderly father died, leaving her with a bequest of four hundred

6

r! The Frontiersm a n

acres, ﬁfteen head of cattle, three slaves, and a sackful of feathers from which to
fashion a bed. Her mother remarried but then died, converting Mary into an orphan at age twelve. The girl was farmed out to an obliging family friend, George Eskridge, who treated her so humanely that she would honor his memory by naming
her ﬁrst son George after him. It was probably Eskridge who acted as go-between in
matching up Mary and Augustine Washington.
A crusty woman with a stubborn streak, Mary Ball Washington made few concessions to social convention. In a lesson internalized by her celebrated son, she
didn’t adapt or bend easily to others but stayed resolutely true to her own standards.
We can only assume that her forlorn childhood, characterized by constant loss, left
innumerable scars and insecurities, producing an anxious personality. With ﬂinty
self-reliance and iron discipline, she ran a thrifty household and was sparing in
her praise and very deﬁnite in her opinions. A plain, homespun woman who may
have smoked a pipe, she betrayed little interest in the larger world, conﬁned her
attention to the family farm, and shunned high society. Since her own mother was
illiterate, Mary probably received scant education. Her few letters are replete with
spelling errors, dispense with all grammar and punctuation, and conﬁrm the impression of an unlettered countrywoman.
The thick family Bible at Mount Vernon records that George Washington was
born around ten a.m. on February 11, 1732, at the family farm at Pope’s Creek in
Westmoreland County, an area of bucolic beauty less than a mile from the Potomac
River. The modest birthplace later went up in ﬂames. The newborn boy was reputed
to be a baby of unusual heft. His original birthday derived from the Julian, or Old
Style, calendar, which remained in effect in Britain and its colonies until the mideighteenth century, when the new Gregorian calendar deferred it by eleven days to
February 22. Until the end of his life, some of Washington’s admirers in Alexandria
insisted upon celebrating his birthday on February 11.
Baptized in early April, the boy was reared amid the rich, open farmland of Tidewater Virginia, the eastern territory washed by four broad rivers: the James, York,
Rappahannock, and Potomac. Broad tobacco ﬁelds ﬂourished in tidal ﬂats broken
only by a scattering of tiny, isolated towns. George Washington entered a strictly
hierarchical universe, ruled by simple verities and dominated by a distant monarch.
That the commoner George could ever aspire to a life as richly consequential as that
of King George II, then enthroned in royal splendor, would have seemed a preposterous fantasy in the 1730s. Hugging the eastern seaboard, the loyal British colonies
were tightly lashed to the trading world of London by commerce and culture. The
all-powerful planters in this provincial sphere strove to ape their English cousins,
who remained the unquestioned model of everything superior and cosmopolitan.
As the economic basis of this undemocratic world, slavery was commonplace and

A Short-Lived Family r! 7

unquestioned, fostering an idle, dissolute existence for rich young Virginians. As
one German visitor sniffed of the average Virginia adolescent, “At ﬁfteen, his father
gives him a horse and a negro, with which he riots about the country, attends every
fox hunt, horse race and cockﬁght, and does nothing else whatever.”5
As the eldest of Augustine Washington’s second set of children, George straddled
two families, perhaps forcing him to hone some early diplomatic skills. His older
half brother, Lawrence, was sent to the Appleby Grammar School before George
was born and was shortly followed there by his brother Augustine Jr. while George
was still a toddler. Death ﬁrst encroached on George’s life when, right before his
third birthday, his older half sister Jane died. As the eldest of Mary Washington’s
children, George probably helped to care for his gaggle of younger siblings, which
grew to include Betty, Samuel, John Augustine, Charles, and Mildred. That only two
of Gus Washington’s nine offspring perished in an era of elevated mortality rates
for children speaks to hardy family stock.
Later on, irked by the sanctimonious moralizing about Washington’s perfections, Nathaniel Hawthorne wrote mockingly that Washington “was born with his
clothes on and his hair powdered and made a stately bow on his ﬁrst appearance in
the world.”6 But there was nothing cosseted about his provincial boyhood, and he
had little exposure to any pampered society that might have softened the rigors of
his rural upbringing. Nor would the unforgiving Mary Washington have tolerated
such laxity. She drilled habits of thrift and industry into her children, including
rising early with the sun, a strict farmer’s habit that George retained for the rest of
his life.
The childhood was a roving and unsettled one. In 1735, when George was three,
Augustine relocated his family sixty miles upstream to his 2,500-acre tract at Little
Hunting Creek on the Potomac, an unspoiled area of pristine forests. Perched on
a hilltop at a scenic bend of the river, the house he constructed was more ample
than the earlier one, with four ground-ﬂoor rooms bisected by a central hallway
and warmed by four ﬁreplaces; a row of smaller bedrooms upstairs accommodated
the growing clan. So sturdy was the new house that its downstairs rooms were later
embedded into George’s expanding mansion at Mount Vernon, turning the building into an archaeological record of his life.
In 1736 Augustine Washington sailed to England and negotiated a one-twelfth
ownership share of the Principio Company. To aid his performance as manager
of their iron furnace in Virginia, Gus uprooted his expanding family again in 1738
and moved them south to a sylvan 260-acre spread on the Rappahannock River,
directly opposite Fredericksburg and a convenient ride away from Accokeek Creek.
Poised on the brow of a hill and slightly recessed from the river, the farm had woods
nearby for ﬁrewood; broad, level ﬁelds for growing tobacco, wheat, and corn; and

8

r! The Frontiersm a n

several pure streams for drinking water. Since access to the ferry later ran straight
through the property—to George’s annoyance, crowds ﬂocked gaily down the footpath during fair days or when courts were in session—the house would be dubbed
Ferry Farm.
Touted in a newspaper advertisement as a “handsome dwelling house,” the twostory clapboard residence was a dark reddish-brown color, roofed with wooden
shingles and ﬂanked by brick chimneys.7 With its seven rooms—four downstairs
and three upstairs—the house counted as a substantial affair for the time, and
recent excavations have disclosed many unexpected touches of gentility. Among
the artifacts unearthed have been wig curlers, bone-handled toothbrushes, and
a Wedgwood tea set, betokening an unmistakable air of afﬂuence. The Washingtons must have entertained a steady ﬂow of visitors, for they had curtained beds
sprinkled throughout the house. Other details of their home inventory—thirteen
tablecloths, thirty-one napkins, twenty-six silver spoons—conjure up a sociable,
highly prosperous clan. Having acquired nearly ﬁfty slaves and ten thousand acres
of land, Augustine Washington had planted his family ﬁrmly among the regional
gentry. Though not born into great wealth, George Washington doesn’t qualify for
inclusion in the ranks of self-made Americans.
Ferry Farm provided George with his ﬁrst treasured glimpses of a world beyond
his boyhood haunts. The newly incorporated hamlet of Fredericksburg, with its
courthouse and stone prison, was already an active port featuring rudiments of a
more developed society. The young George Washington could peer across the river
and see a perfect tableau of the British Empire in action. Moored at town wharves,
ships bulging with tobacco, grain, and iron gave glimmers of the lucrative transatlantic trade with London that enriched the colony.
Around the time the Washingtons settled into their new home, changes occurred in the composition of the family. George’s baby sister Mildred was born and
soon died, and he also set eyes for the ﬁrst time on his older half brother Lawrence,
a quasi-mythical ﬁgure who suddenly materialized in Virginia, polished by years
at the Appleby Grammar School. Tall and debonair, Lawrence must have radiated
a mature, well-traveled air of worldly sophistication for George, who was fourteen
years his junior. Since Lawrence had stayed at Appleby until age twenty, he had
probably graduated to the status of an “usher,” or assistant teacher, at the school.
Lawrence would function as both a peer and a parental ﬁgure for his half brother,
and his youthful adventures operated so powerfully on George’s imagination that
the latter’s early life seems to enact a script ﬁrst drafted by his older brother. When
Augustine assigned Lawrence to superintend the Potomac River property recently
vacated by the family, it immediately became the most desirable destination in
George’s eyes.

A Short-Lived Family r! 9

George’s ﬁrst exposure to war came vicariously through the exploits of his idolized brother. In 1739 Great Britain clashed with Spain in the Caribbean in a conﬂict
styled the War of Jenkins’ Ear—Robert Jenkins being a British ship captain whose
ear was allegedly mutilated by the Spanish. To bolster an amphibious force the following year, the Crown enlisted colonial subjects into an American Foot Regiment,
and Lawrence landed a coveted spot as the captain of a Virginia company. In the
major offensive of this expeditionary force, Admiral Edward Vernon hurled nine
thousand men against the Spanish at Cartagena, on the northern coast of South
America, in what degenerated into a bloody ﬁasco. Lawrence and his men never
disembarked from their ship, which was ravaged by yellow fever and other tropical
diseases no less efﬁciently than their colleagues were mowed down by enemy bullets. Some perished from sunstroke in sweltering heat. In the gruesome account
he sent home, Lawrence detailed how “the enemy killed of ours some 600 . . . and
the climate killed us in greater number . . . a great quantity of ofﬁcers amongst the
rest are dead . . . War is horrid in fact but much more so in imagination.” Amid
the gloom, Lawrence struck a cavalier note that George mimicked years later: “We
there have learned to live on ordinary diet, to watch much, and disregard the noise
or shot of cannon.”8
In these thrilling, if sanguinary, tales of war, Lawrence must have communicated mixed impressions of his British superiors. On the one hand, he had to brook
the condescension of Brigadier General Thomas Wentworth, who sneered at colonial troops and kept them cooped up aboard the ship. At the same time, Lawrence
retained clear affection for Admiral Vernon and, in a burst of Anglophilia, would
rename the Little Hunting Creek estate Mount Vernon, hanging the admiral’s portrait in an honored place there. Thus the name of a forgotten British admiral would
implausibly grace America’s secular shrine to the revolt against British rule. However frustrated with his British superiors, Lawrence earned the royal commission
that would always elude George’s eager grasp—a precedent that could only have
sharpened the latter’s keen sense of inequitable treatment at British hands. In his
ﬂourishing career, Lawrence was also named adjutant general of Virginia, which
brought him the rank of major and entrusted him with the task of molding militia
companies into an effective ﬁghting force.
In June 1742 George’s other older half brother, Augustine Jr., also returned from
a lengthy stay at Appleby. George must have expected that he would shortly follow
suit, but that dream was rudely dashed a year later, when he was summoned back
from a cousin’s home by news that his father was ill. On April 12, 1743, Augustine
Washington died at forty-nine in a manner that eerily preﬁgured George’s own
demise at century’s end: he had ridden out in a storm, gotten sick, and expired.
This early death underscored a central paradox of George Washington’s life: that

10

r! The Frontiersm a n

although he was a superb physical specimen, with a magniﬁcent physique, his family’s medical history was blighted by truncated lives. He subsequently lamented,
“Tho’ I was blessed with a good constitution, I was of a short-lived family.”9
The most signiﬁcant bequest fell to Lawrence, who inherited Mount Vernon
and the iron mine, while Austin received the family farm at Pope’s Creek, where
George was born and would spend much time after his father’s death. George himself inherited Ferry Farm, a half share in an upriver parcel called Deep Run, and
assorted lots in Fredericksburg. The eleven-year-old also found himself the juvenile
owner of ten human beings. Since he could not claim this property until he reached
maturity, George’s newfound wealth was purely theoretical and placed him at the
mercy of his strong-willed mother, who would not relinquish Ferry Farm for another thirty years. Augustine’s early death robbed George of the classical education
bestowed on his older brothers, leaving him with an enduring sense of stunted, incomplete schooling. His father’s death threw the boy back upon his own resources,
stealing any chance of a lighthearted youth. From then on, George grew accustomed
to shouldering weighty family burdens. Because Mary never remarried—unusual
in a frontier society with a paucity of women—George developed the deeply rooted
toughness of children forced to function as adults at an early age. He discovered a
precocious ability to perform many adult tasks, but he probably never forgot the
sudden fright of being deprived of the protection of a father. One wonders whether
he resented his mother for her failure to ﬁnd a second husband, which imposed
inordinate burdens on him as the eldest son. Quite naturally, George turned to
older men as sponsors and patrons, cultivating the art of ingratiating himself with
inﬂuential ﬁgures.
If Mary Ball Washington comes across as an unbending, even shrewish, disciplinarian, one can only imagine the unspoken dread that she, too, experienced at
being widowed at thirty-ﬁve. She had to manage Ferry Farm, tend ﬁve children
ranging in age from six to eleven, and oversee dozens of slaves. Gus’s death forced
Mary to eliminate any frills of family life, and her spartan style as a businesswoman,
frugal and demanding, had a discernible impact on her son. “In her dealings with
servants, she was strict,” writes Douglas Southall Freeman. “They must follow a
deﬁnite round of work. Her bidding must be their law.”10 With more than a touch
of the martinet in her forbidding nature, Mary Washington displayed a powerful
capacity to command, and one is tempted to say that the ﬁrst formidable general
George Washington ever encountered was his own mother.
This trying woman inspired a healthy trepidation among George’s companions.
“I was often there with George, his playmate, schoolmate, and young man’s companion,” said Lawrence Washington of Chotank, a distant relative. “Of the mother
I was more afraid than of my own parents; she awed me in the midst of her kind-

A Short-Lived Family r! 1 1

ness, for she was, indeed, truly kind.”11 There was nothing especially gentle about
Mary Washington, little that savored of maternal warmth. Gus’s death removed
any moderating inﬂuence between mother and eldest son, who clashed with their
similarly willful personalities. Always a dutiful but seldom a loving son, George
treated his mother with frigid deference, taking refuge in polite but empty forms.
His letters to her would be addressed to “Honored Madam” and end with distant
formality, “Your most Dutiful and Obedient Son, George Washington.” This studiously correct tone, likely laced with suppressed anger, only highlighted the absence
of genuine ﬁlial affection.
There would always be a cool, quiet antagonism between Washington and his
mother. The hypercritical mother produced a son who was overly sensitive to criticism and suffered from a lifelong need for approval. One suspects that, in dealing
with this querulous woman, George became an overly controlled personality and
learned to master his temper and curb his tongue. It was the extreme self-control
of a deeply emotional young man who feared the fatal vehemence of his own feelings, if left unchecked. Anything pertaining to Mary Ball Washington stirred up an
emotional tempest that George quelled only with difﬁculty. Never able to express
these forbidden feelings of rage, he learned to equate silence and a certain manly
stolidity with strength. This boyhood struggle was, in all likelihood, the genesis of
the stoical personality that would later deﬁne him so indelibly.
On the one hand, the similarities between Mary Washington and her eldest son
were striking. She was a ﬁne horsewoman, enjoyed dancing, reputedly possessed
enormous strength, was manic in money matters, tenaciously superintended her
farm, and displayed a stubborn independence. Both mother and son exhibited
supreme willpower that people deﬁed at their peril. Both were vigorous, enterprising, and exacting in their demands. Yet in many other ways, George Washington deﬁned himself as the antithesis of his mother. If his mother was crude and
illiterate, he would improve himself through books. If she was self-centered, he
would be self-sacriﬁcing in serving his country. If she was slovenly, he would be
meticulous in appearance. If she disdained fancy society, he would crave its acceptance. If she showed old-fashioned religious fervor, he would be devout in a
more moderate fashion. And if she was a veteran complainer, he would be known
for his stiff upper lip.
Unable to afford a fancy education for her children, Mary Washington did her
best to pound moral precepts into them, reading daily portions from a volume entitled Contemplations Moral and Divine by Sir Matthew Hale. Many speculative theories have been ﬂoated about Washington’s education. Before his father’s death, he
may have received a limited education in math, reading, and writing at a day school
taught by a Mr. Hobby, one of his father’s tenants, who boasted that he had “laid the

12

r! The Frontiersm a n

foundation of [Washington’s] greatness.”12 He may also have attended a school in
Fredericksburg run by the Reverend James Marye, the rector of St. George’s Parish.
According to one classmate, George applied himself to math while the others played
at ﬁeld hockey, his sole indiscretion being that he was caught “romping with one of
the largest girls.”13 Finally, when he stayed with Austin at the Pope’s Creek farm, he
may have been schooled in the rudiments of math and surveying by a schoolmaster
named Henry Williams. Oddly for a towering personage in history, Washington
never cited an early educational mentor, suggesting that his boyhood lessons were
pretty humdrum. He left behind more than two hundred pages of schoolboy exercises that focused on geometry lessons, weights and measures, compound interest,
currency conversions, and other skills necessary for business or surveying. Almost
by osmosis, he absorbed law and economics by monotonously copying out legal
forms for bail bonds, leases, and land patents, stocking his mind with a huge fund
of practical information. The furnace of ambition burned with a bright, steady
ﬂame inside this diligent boy.
With painstaking effort, Washington learned to write in a round hand that
lacked elegance but had great clarity. It took time for him to compose clean, declarative sentences—his teenage prose was often turgid and ungrammatical—but
by dint of hard work, his powers grew steadily until he became a writer of considerable force, able to register his wishes with precision. It was in Washington’s
nature to work doubly hard to rectify perceived failings. Writing in 1807, the biographer David Ramsay said of the young Washington that “he was grave, silent, and
thoughtful, diligent and methodical in business, digniﬁed in his appearance, strictly
honorable in his deportment.”14
One can’t help but surmise that Washington’s life would have been vastly different had he attended college. He lacked the liberal education that then distinguished
gentlemen, setting him apart from such illustrious peers as Jefferson, Hamilton,
Adams, and Madison. He would always seem more provincial than other founders, his knowledge of European culture more secondhand. A university education
would have spared him a gnawing sense of intellectual inadequacy. We know that
he regretted his lack of Latin, Greek, and French—the major intellectual adornments of his day—since he lectured wards in later years on their importance. The
degree to which Washington dwelt upon the transcendent importance of education
underscores the stigma that he felt about having missed college. As president, he
lectured a young relative about to enter college that “every hour misspent is lost
forever” and that “future years cannot compensate for lost days at this period of
your life.”15
Without much formal schooling, Washington was later subject to condescension from some contemporaries, especially the snobbish John Adams, who dis-

A Short-Lived Family r! 13

paraged him as “too illiterate, unlearned, unread for his station and reputation.”16
Washington has suffered from comparisons with other founders, several of whom
were renowned autodidacts, but by any ordinary standard, he was an exceedingly
smart man with a quick ability to grasp ideas. He seized every interval of leisure to
improve himself and showed a steady capacity to acquire and retain useful knowledge. Throughout his life, he strenuously molded his personality to become a respectable member of society. As W. W. Abbot aptly expressed it, “More than most,
Washington’s biography is the story of a man constructing himself.”17
As an adolescent, Washington dabbled in ﬁction, history, philosophy, and geography. An avid reader of periodicals, he sampled The Spectator by the age of sixteen.
With the novel ﬂowering as a literary form, he was to purchase copies of Henry
Fielding’s Tom Jones and Tobias Smollett’s The Adventures of Peregrine Pickle in
coming years, and he was especially drawn to military history. As he experienced
the ﬁrst stirrings of an abiding passion for theater, he read Joseph Addison’s Cato, a
paean to republican virtues that he quoted repeatedly throughout his life. It is often
said, with truth, that Washington absorbed his lessons from action, not books, yet
he came to own a vast library and talked about books as if he were a serious reader,
not a dilettante. When his adopted grandson entered college, Washington lectured
him thus: “Light reading (by this, I mean books of little importance) may amuse for
the moment, but leaves nothing solid behind.”18
Never an intellectual who relished ideas for their own sake, he mined books for
practical wisdom and delighted in dredging up handy aphorisms. At seventeen, he
possessed an English compendium of the principal Dialogues of Seneca the Younger
and took to heart his stoic beliefs: “The contempt of death makes all the miseries of
life easy to us.” Or: “He is the brave man . . . that can look death in the face without
trouble or surprise.”19 As his life progressed, Washington would adhere to the stoic
creed of governing one’s passions under the most adverse circumstances and facing
the prospect of death with serenity.
In trying to form himself as an English country gentleman, the self-invented
young Washington practiced the classic strategy of outsiders: he studied closely
his social betters and tried to imitate their behavior in polite society. Whether to
improve his penmanship or perhaps as a school assignment, he submitted to the
drudgery of copying out 110 social maxims from The Rules of Civility and Decent
Behavior in Company and Conversation, a handy guidebook of etiquette that traced
its origins to a French Jesuit work of the sixteenth century. This humorless manual
preached against assorted social gaffes that would have haunted the nightmares of
an insecure youth who daydreamed of venturing into fashionable drawing rooms.
Number four warned: “In the presence of others, sing not to yourself with a humming noise, nor drum with your ﬁngers or feet.” Number eleven: “Shift not yourself

14

r! The Frontiersm a n

in the sight of others, nor gnaw your nails.” Number twelve: “Bedew no man’s face
with your spittle by approaching too near him when you speak.”20 Number one
hundred: “Cleanse not your teeth with the tablecloth, napkin, fork, or knife, but if
others do it, let it be done with a pick tooth.”21
Many of these rules, which talked about showing due respect for one’s superiors, tread a ﬁne line between self-abasement and simple humility. Number thirtyseven: “In speaking to men of quality, do not lean, nor look them full in the face,
nor approach too near them; at least keep a full pace from them.”22 Or thirty-nine:
“In writing or speaking, give to every person his due title according to his degree
and the custom of the place.”23 This is a crib sheet for a world shot through with
class distinctions and informed by a deep terror of offending one’s betters. This
guidebook “taught modesty, deference, and submission to authority,” writes William Guthrie Sayen, who notes that it would have instructed Washington on how
to control his temper and learn “the importance of managing his body, his facial
expressions, his speech, and his moods.”24 The book must have spoken to some
inborn sense of decorum in Washington, soothing his schoolboy fears of committing a faux pas. If thoroughly heeded, The Rules of Civility would have produced a
cool, pragmatic, and very controlled young man with genteel manners—exactly the
social facade Washington wished to project to conceal the welter of stormy emotions inside him.
Though respectful of education, George Washington was never a bookish boy.
He loved to swim in the smooth, deep waters of the Rappahannock. He excelled in
riding, liked to hunt, later learned fencing, attended a dancing school, played billiards, frequented cockﬁghts and horse races, and experimented with his ﬁrst ﬂirtations. Despite a certain underlying roughness, he would perfect the social graces
that prepared him to enter well-bred society. At the same time, he was an unusually sober and purposeful young man. In countless letters in later years, he advised
young relatives that adolescence was a risky time when evil inﬂuences lurked nearby,
ready to pounce: “You are now extending into that stage of life when good or bad
habits are formed. When the mind will be turned to things useful and praiseworthy
or to dissipation and vice.”25 He issued warnings against young male companions
who “too often mistake ribaldry for wit and rioting, swearing, intoxication, and
gambling for manliness.”26 The young George Washington seldom seemed to show
a truant disposition, as if he were already preparing for bigger things.

chapter two

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Fortune’s Favorite

I n t h e a bse nc e of a fat h e r and with a mother who doled out criticism
more freely than encouragement, George Washington turned naturally to his three
younger brothers for recreation and to his two older brothers, Lawrence and Austin,
for guidance. Of the younger brothers, John Augustine or “Jack” was decidedly his
favorite, “the intimate companion of my youth and the most affectionate friend of
my ripened age,” as George remembered him.1 It was his outgoing and older half
brother Lawrence, however, who ﬁred his ambitions and steered him ﬁrmly in the
direction of a military career.
After his father’s death, George found asylum from his difﬁcult mother in periodic trips to stay with Lawrence at Mount Vernon, which would always beckon
invitingly on the far horizon of his life. From time to time he also escaped to his
brother Austin’s place at Pope’s Creek, though he was never as close to him. In
a surviving portrait of Lawrence Washington by an unknown artist, he is clad
in the uniform of a British Army ofﬁcer but seems made of gentler stuff than
George. He has boldly marked eyebrows, full lips, a cleft chin, and receding brown
hair. The dark eyes are large and sensitive, evoking a poet or a scholar more than
a bluff soldier. Indeed, the cultivated Lawrence presented an appealing model
of urbanity for his younger brother. “For the enlargement of George’s mind and
the polishing of his manners, Lawrence was almost an ideal elder brother,” writes
Douglas Southall Freeman.2
After returning from the military debacle at Cartagena, Lawrence Washington
appeared headed for a life of easy riches. Though a lackluster businessman, he was
fortunate to marry Ann Fairfax in July 1743, three months after his father’s death, a

16

r! The Frontiersm a n

fateful match that catapulted him to the apex of Virginia society, a status certiﬁed
by Lawrence’s election to the House of Burgesses.
The bride was the daughter of the august Colonel William Fairfax, who wielded
breathtaking power in Tidewater Virginia as land agent for the Northern Neck Proprietary, the long strip of fertile farmland between the Potomac and Rappahannock
rivers. Through this land grant, dating back to the reign of King Charles II, the
Fairfax family controlled a veritable duchy of ﬁve million acres that extended all
the way west to the Shenandoah Valley. William represented his cousin, Thomas
Fairfax, the sixth Baron Fairfax, in administering this princely domain. Through a
maze of business dealings and social and marital ties, Fairfax power ramiﬁed into
every corner of Virginia society.
Ann Fairfax grew up on the family estate, Belvoir, which shimmered like a radiant mirage on the Potomac River, four miles downstream from Mount Vernon.
This luxurious realm encapsulated the youthful fantasies of George Washington,
who later described it thus: “Within full view of Mount Vernon, separated therefrom by water only, [it] is one of the most beautiful seats on the river . . . there are
near 2,000 acres of land belonging to the tract, surrounded in a manner by water.” Of the two-story Georgian brick mansion that stood as its stately centerpiece,
Washington recalled that it “stood on high and commanding ground.”3 The house
was approached by a circular drive and a huge courtyard, with formal grounds,
stables, a coach house, and lavish gardens laid out with the full grandeur of an
opulent British country house.
By marrying Ann Fairfax, Lawrence Washington crossed a social chasm that
segregated the merely comfortable from the fabulously rich, making George a welcome visitor at Belvoir at the impressionable age of eleven. When Lawrence and
Ann lost four children in infancy, it only fortiﬁed their bond with George. Ushered
into the rareﬁed milieu of Belvoir, George befriended the colonel’s son, George William Fairfax, who was eight years his senior and rather snobbish; the latter faintly
praised Belvoir as a “tolerable cottage” in a “wooded world.”4 A portrait of the fastidiously dressed George William shows a man with a long, narrow face and an
alert, slightly suspicious glance. The Fairfax connection opened up a world of extraordinary magniﬁcence for young Washington, who must have felt a rough country bumpkin in comparison. His amazing career would never have unfolded had
his fortunes not meshed so neatly with the interests of this ruling clan.
George won more than grudging entree to the Fairfax estate, for Colonel Fairfax
spied unusual potential in this capable youth, invited him on foxhunts, and took
an active interest in furthering his career. The colonial world revolved around such
pivotal connections. To secure a powerful patron was an indispensable prerequisite
to advancement for a boy born outside the upper gentry. In the mid-1750s, while

Fortune’s Favorite r! 1 7

coaching his younger brother Jack, George exhorted him to spend more time at
Belvoir: “I should be glad to hear that you live in perfect harmony and good fellowship with the family at Belvoir, as it is in their power to be serviceable upon many
occasions to us as young beginners . . . to that family I am under many obligations,
particularly to the old gentleman.”5 That old gentleman, Colonel Fairfax, seemed to
dote on Washington and signed his letters to him “your assured and loving friend.”6
The Fairfax sponsorship lifted George above the mass of Virginia commoners and
made the world of the highborn seem tantalizingly within reach. Perhaps he relived
his own youth when he later instructed a young relative, “It is therefore absolutely
necessary, if you mean to make any ﬁgure upon the stage, that you should take the
ﬁrst steps right.”7 From their letters, we can also tell that George and Colonel Fairfax shared copies of Caesar’s Commentaries and a life of Alexander the Great and
frequently swapped views on military heroes from antiquity. Since the colonel once
boasted that he had trained himself to make no “outward show” of emotion, he
may also have provided a model of restrained behavior for George as well.8 Colonel
Fairfax knew George thoroughly enough that, in writing to Mary Washington, he
pinpointed her son’s outstanding ﬂaw, which he must correct: “I wish I could say
that he governs his temper.”9 It should be said that the authenticity of this letter has
been questioned.
In September 1746 Lawrence Washington and Colonel Fairfax concocted a plan
to spring fourteen-year-old George from his mother’s domination and launch him
on a promising career in the Royal Navy. At a conﬁdential meeting in Fredericksburg, designed to keep Mary Washington securely in the dark, Fairfax transmitted
to George a letter from Lawrence telling of an open position for a midshipman
aboard a royal frigate then anchored in Virginia. When George acquiesced in the
idea, Fairfax reported back to Lawrence that his brother vowed to “be steady and
thankfully follow your advice as his best friend.”10 As George later acknowledged,
it was “the wish of my eldest brother . . . that this should take place.”11 From Lawrence, George received a letter endorsing the plan, which he was then to deliver to
his mother, whose approval was hardly taken for granted.
At ﬁrst, Mary Washington gave qualiﬁed approval to the move. Perhaps eager to
ﬂee from Ferry Farm, George indicated that he had his “baggage prepared for embarkation.”12 Then Mary consulted a family friend, Robert Jackson, who supported
the plan, but she seized on passing statements that he made to conﬁrm her growing
reservations. As Jackson informed Lawrence, “She offers several triﬂing objections
such as fond and unthinking mothers naturally suggest and I ﬁnd that one word
against his going has more weight than ten for it.”13 Mary also consulted her rich
half brother in England, Joseph Ball, who sent back a canny analysis about naval
discrimination against colonials. Advising that George be apprenticed instead to a

18

r! The Frontiersm a n

tinker (a vendor of household utensils), Joseph noted that “a common sailor before
the mast has by no means the common liberty of the subject; for they will press
him from a ship where he has 50 shillings a month . . . and use him like a Negro,
or rather, like a dog.”14 That his uncle wanted George to train as a tinker bespeaks
low family expectations that would have struck terror into this upwardly bound
young man. Mary ﬁnally vetoed the idea of George joining the navy and thereby
performed a major service in American history, saving her son for a future army
career.
Whether Mary was persuaded by reasonable arguments, or simply didn’t wish
to part with her robust eldest son around the farm, is impossible to know. One
can say with certainty that it was the ﬁrst of many times she seemed to measure
her son’s worth not by what he might accomplish elsewhere but by what he could
do for her, even if it meant thwarting his career. She would always be strangely
indifferent toward his ambitions, making decisions about him from a purely selfinterested standpoint. On the other hand, she was a single mother, clearly valued
George’s abilities as the eldest son, and deemed him a necessary substitute for the
missing father.
The following year, when George was ﬁfteen, his family underwent a period of
extreme ﬁnancial stringency that ended his education. During a severe cash crunch
in later life, he wrote that “with much truth I can say, I never felt the want of money
so sensibly since I was a boy of 15 years old.”15 With his mother having ruled out a
seaman’s life, George opted to become a surveyor. Throughout his career, he would
cherish real estate as an almost foolproof investment that always appreciated in
value. Indeed, he could already see that most, if not all, of the major Virginia fortunes had arisen from rampant land speculation. Surveying was a well-trodden
path for rising young men, and not only because surveyors could book rich fees
as settlers sprawled into the western wilderness. While acting as agents for others,
young surveyors with an eye on the main chance could scout choice properties for
themselves. Such work could eventually elevate young men hampered by meager
capital into the elite club of well-off planters.
Surveying suited Washington’s talents perfectly. He was proﬁcient in math,
exacting in approaching problems, and fond of the outdoors. His father had left
behind a complete set of surveying instruments, and George ran his ﬁrst lines at
Ferry Farm. By October 1747 he had netted three pounds and two shillings by apprenticing himself to a local surveyor, and he initiated the habit of recording his
expenses and revenues with scrupulous care. George Washington was always a man
who monitored his every move. He regarded his knowledge of math and surveying
as preliminary steps toward becoming a top-notch planter, observing that nothing
was more “necessary to any person possessed of a large landed estate, the bounds

Fortune’s Favorite r! 19

or some part or other of which are always in controversy.”16 For the rest of his
life, Washington was stamped by his practical experience as a surveyor. At Mount
Vernon, he had an irresistible penchant for carrying a compass and performing
his own measurements. Even when he toured the thirteen states as ﬁrst president,
he methodically recorded the topographical features of places, as if he remained a
working surveyor. Whether as planter or president, his study was liberally supplied
with maps and charts.
Young Washington’s emergence as a surveyor had a fortuitous start. In 1746
Baron Fairfax, the absentee proprietor of the Northern Neck, visited Virginia to
canvass his vast domain and stayed at Belvoir. Portraits show a shrewd, worldly
man with a jowly face and intelligent eyes. He had the ultimate power to sell and
lease all lands in the Northern Neck. Apparently pleased by what he saw, this veteran foxhunter decided to erect a hunting lodge for himself, known as Greenway
Court, in the Shenandoah Valley. This quickened the development of his western
lands, producing a windfall for the surveyors he employed. George Washington
was splendidly poised to beneﬁt from this development. His stalwart patron, Colonel Fairfax—now head of the King’s Council, the upper house of the Virginia
legislature—hired the surveyors, and his son, George William, was assigned to sell
the leaseholds.
Thus in March 1748 sixteen-year-old George Washington saddled his horse and
joined his friend George William Fairfax on a surveying expedition across the Blue
Ridge Mountains, plunging into the wilds of the Shenandoah Valley. Their mission
was to carve up Lord Fairfax’s acreage into salable leaseholds. To mark this rite of
passage, George Washington set quill to paper and began a travel diary entitled “A
Journal of My Journey over the Mountains.” It represents his earliest piece of writing of any length. Here, beyond the pale of Virginia society, he told of pounding
rains that swelled rivers and mountain winds that played havoc with his belongings.
Overﬂowing waterways had to be forded, primitive roads traversed. Washington
navigated canoes down whitewater streams in driving rain, shot wild turkey, and
slept on bearskins under the stars or in smoky tents. This was a raw, violent world
such as Washington had never experienced before, but he adapted to it with remarkable speed and aplomb and quickly grew inured to hardship.
This fastidious young man learned to deal with the many earthy surprises presented by frontier life. Early in the trip, when the group stayed with a Captain Isaac
Pennington, George made the mistake of expecting clean, comfortable quarters.
After he stripped off his clothes and climbed into the rustic bed, he found it to be
“nothing but a little straw, matted together without sheets or anything else, but only
one threadbare blanket with double its weight of vermin, such as lice, ﬂeas, etc.” He
promptly got up and put back on his clothes. Worn out from a day of riding, he

20

r! The Frontiersm a n

managed to fall asleep, but resolved henceforth “to sleep in the open air before a
ﬁre.”17 The next night at Fredericktown, he got a feather bed with fresh sheets and
fumigated the lice he had picked up the previous night.
On March 23 Washington registered his ﬁrst encounter with Native Americans,
depicting his party as “agreeably surprised” by meeting thirty Indians fresh from
battle who were dismayed to be bearing only a single scalp. Washington and his
group plied the Indians with liquor, which prompted them to form a circle and
leap about in a war dance, accompanied by a deerskin drum and the dry rattle of
a gourd. George described how the “best dancer jumps up as one awaked out of a
sleep and runs and jumps about the ring in a most comical manner.”18 Despite the
martial nature of the dance, the gory detail of the scalp, and the fact that they had
goaded the Indians into getting drunk, the young surveyor only saw something
picturesque and outlandish in the spectacle. Still insular in his reactions, he chided
one group of Dutch settlers as “ignorant” because they “would never speak English,
but when spoken to, they speak all Dutch.”19 A patronizing streak in George later
emerged when he derided some settlers as “a parcel of barbarians and an uncouth
set of people.”20 Whatever his inner reservations about the frontier folk, George
succeeded in handling them with uncommon ﬁnesse.
That George, tutored by Lawrence and the Fairfax family, was already a wellbred young man is reﬂected in his disdain for the crude existence he confronted.
Yet a rugged side of his nature gloried in this unruly world. Possessed of unusual
equanimity, he showed that he could shuttle gracefully between worlds of extreme
gentility and roughness. He became accustomed to roasting food on sharpened
sticks over open ﬁres and dining on wooden chips instead of plates. Nothing appeared to faze him. One windy night in early April, George awoke to discover that
the straw mat he was sleeping on had caught ﬁre; luckily, one of the men woke
up and stamped it out. The next night was even more blustery. “We had our tent
carried quite off with the wind and was obliged to lie the latter part of the night
without covering.”21 All this he took in stride.
On April 13, 1748, toughened by a month of adventures, Washington ﬁnished his
surveying trip. He had shown sporadic traces of an aesthetic sense, rhapsodizing
about the “beautiful groves of sugar trees” and the “richness of the land,” but the trip
had mainly alerted him to the extraordinary business opportunities that abounded
in these virgin lands, commencing a lifelong fascination with westward expansion.22
With extensive knowledge of these frontier outposts, Washington would emerge as
the founder best able to visualize the ample contours of the American future, making the notion of a continental empire more than a mere abstraction.
Lawrence Washington helped to spark George’s interest in distant settlements,
having joined with Thomas and William Fairfax in a land venture called the Ohio

Fortune’s Favorite r! 21

Company that ultimately gained the right to half a million acres of frontier land.
The locus of settlement would be the so-called Ohio Country, west of the Allegheny
Mountains, where the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers ﬂowed together to form
the headwaters of the Ohio River; the place was widely known as the Forks of the
Ohio. It would be the competing claims of England and France to this bountiful
territory that would shortly thrust George Washington into his ﬁrst military confrontations and chart a direction for his future life.

By t h e l at e 174 0 s George Washington had his feet solidly planted in two
worlds: while burnishing his social skills for polite Virginia society, he also readied himself for wilderness service. Now that he had found a professional footing,
he needed to dress the part. He had already acquired a respectable wardrobe, taking along on one trip nine shirts, six linen waistcoats, four neckcloths, and seven
caps.23 Sometime in 1749–50 he jotted down, with impressive exactitude, a 152-word
description of a frock coat he wanted made, which was to have “a lapel breast, the
lapel to contain on each side six button holes and to be about 5 or 6 inches wide,
all the way equal, and to turn as the breast on the coat does; to have it made very
long-waisted and in length to come down to or below the bent of the knee, the waist
from the armpit to the fold to be exactly as long or longer than from thence to the
bottom, not to have more than one fold in the skirt etc. etc.”24 No tailor could have
requested more speciﬁc instructions: Washington was designing his coat down to
the smallest detail. Throughout his life, he exhibited a faultless precision in dress,
regarding a person’s apparel as the outward sign of inner order.
Still rather awkward in society—“He was a very bashful young man,” one matron later recalled. “I used often to wish that he would talk more”—Washington
was trying to acquire other social habits of the Virginia gentry.25 He learned to
dance, an activity in which he sparkled, and gambled at whist and loo, card games
then voguish among the British aristocracy. But he remained trapped in an adolescent dependence on his mother, which cramped his social style, and he suffered
from the spartan life at Ferry Farm. In one letter to Lawrence, he regretted that he
could not join him on a trip to the colonial capital at Williamsburg: “My horse is in
very poor order to undertake such a journey and is in no likelihood of mending for
want of corn sufﬁcient to support him.”26
The young man was highly responsive to female charms. In December 1748 his
friend George William Fairfax, twenty-four, had married eighteen-year-old Sarah
Cary, who was to be immortalized under her married name of Sally Fairfax. The
alluring daughter of Wilson Cary, an eminence in the House of Burgesses, Sally had
grown up in a mansion on the James River near Hampton Roads. Her family was

22

r! The Frontiersm a n

rich and cultured, boasting a well-stocked library, and Sally was ﬂuent in French. A
photograph of a lost portrait shows a comely young woman with smooth, creamy
shoulders and a long neck, wearing a simple but glamorous décolleté dress that
discloses an ample expanse of bosom. A woman of obvious beauty and sensuality, she has bright, sprightly eyes and an alluring personality. For an inexperienced
youth like George, Sally, two years his senior, must have exuded a bewitching air of
mystery. If his attraction to her blossomed into a full-blown infatuation, it probably
started innocently enough.
Sometime around 1749–50 George became smitten with a young woman he coyly
referred to as the “Low Land Beauty” and dallied with another he referred to as “very
agreeable,” who was likely Mary Cary, Sally’s younger sister.27 George found solace by
copying out two banal poems about a man spurned by his lady love. In one poem, the
poet is tortured by secret love: “Ah! woe’s me, that I should Love and conceal, / Long
have I wish’d, but never dare reveal.”28 In the second poem, the poet stands helpless
beford his ardor. “Oh Ye Gods why should my Poor Resistless Heart / Stand to oppose
thy might and Power / At Last surrender to cupids feather’d Dart / and now lays Bleeding every Hour / For her that’s Pityless of my grief and Woes / And will not on me Pity
take.”29 But Washington was not born to pine away as an idle, lovesick youth.
In the spring of 1749 he again proﬁted from his connection with brother Lawrence when he helped to survey the new Potomac port of Alexandria, north of Mount
Vernon; Lawrence served as a trustee of the town. A more momentous change occurred in July 1749, when George was appointed surveyor of Culpeper County. Even
though the College of William and Mary, under a 1693 charter, retained the power
to name the county surveyor, it proved susceptible to the blandishments of inﬂuential men. When seventeen-year-old George Washington captured this lucrative
sinecure, becoming the youngest ofﬁcial surveyor in Virginia history, it reﬂected his
privileged friendship with the omnipotent Lord Fairfax. Instead of starting out as
a lowly, obscure apprentice, the young man was enabled by patronage to skip the
preliminary steps. As Marcus Cunliffe has noted, the young Washington “was not
an intellectual genius or the heir to a great fortune,” but “he was evidently energetic,
reliable, and canny.”30
Two days after his appointment, George performed an obligatory survey of four
hundred acres in eastern Culpeper County and proudly afﬁxed his signature to the
document with his new title. Apparently, this was the only survey George ever performed in the county for which he was the nominal surveyor. He then gladly turned
his attention to more proﬁtable opportunities awaiting him in the hinterlands beyond the Blue Ridge Mountains, where rich soil tempted hordes of settlers. As fortune’s favorite, George received a steady stream of assignments that issued from the
splendid portals of Belvoir as Lord Fairfax cashed in on the booming settlements

Fortune’s Favorite r! 23

in his domain. These surveys were often plum assignments, for they covered small,
easily measured parcels that could be surveyed in a single day. Choosing to work
in crisp spring or autumn weather, George avoided the summertime, when thick
foliage impeded the sight lines of surveyors. Lord Fairfax pocketed one shilling per
annum for every ﬁfty acres of settled land and piled up a substantial fortune from
the labors of George and his fellow surveyors. Within a year the busy young man
shed his duties as surveyor of Culpeper County, most likely because he no longer
needed the extra work.
In the spring of 1750 George Washington again mounted his horse, loaded up
his surveying tools, and cantered off to the Shenandoah Valley. He laid out fortyseven tracts on that one trip alone, jotting notes for each survey in a tiny notebook
he tucked into his pocket. He grew increasingly accustomed to the wilderness and
was no longer too particular about changing his clothes. As he notiﬁed a friend,
“The coldness of the weather will not allow my making a long stay, as the lodging
is rather too cold for the time of year. I have never had my clothes off, but lay and
sleep in them like a Negro.”31 An instant professional success, George toiled just a
few months yearly and made his ﬁrst signiﬁcant land investment in October 1750,
buying nearly ﬁfteen hundred acres in the Shenandoah Valley. Thus began his continuing ﬁxation on land speculation. As Dorothy Twohig, an editor of Washington’s
papers, notes, “No theme appears more frequently in the writings of Washington
than his love for the land—more precisely, his own land.”32 Only eighteen, Washington already had his ﬁrst plantation, on which tenants or hired help grew corn,
wheat, and tobacco. He never stopped accumulating acreage and by age twenty
had assembled 2,315 acres in the Shenandoah Valley. For a young man who could
not afford corn for his horse a year earlier, it was a startling and nearly dreamlike
elevation in status.
George’s soaring success coincided with an alarming turn in Lawrence’s health.
In May 1749 the latter had to relinquish his seat in the House of Burgesses due to a
hacking cough—a telltale symptom of tuberculosis. That winter at Mount Vernon,
George had intermittently helped to care for his brother. On one occasion, he wrote
tenderly to Lawrence, “Dear Brother, I hope your cough is much mended since I
saw you last; if so, [I] likewise hope you have given over the thoughts of leaving
Virginia.”33 Instead, the cough only worsened, and Lawrence sailed to England to
consult doctors there. In his absence, George commiserated by mail with his sisterin-law Ann and did his best to cheer her up. He couldn’t offer comfort in person
at Mount Vernon because he himself had contracted a new ailment: malaria. “I am
deprived of the pleasure of waiting on you (as I expected) by ague and fever which
I have had to extremity,” he informed her.34
While George recuperated, Lawrence returned from England still in the ter-

24

r! The Frontiersm a n

rible throes of tuberculosis. In desperation, accompanied by his younger brother,
Lawrence decided to test the medicinal powers of warm springs in western Virginia
(later the town of Berkeley Springs, West Virginia). Inﬁrm people had begun making pilgrimages to this natural spa to soak in the waters or drink them to regain
their health. Later it was a fashionable place, but George found the warm springs
dark, gloomy, and secluded and scarcely conducive to improved health. He grumbled that they “are situated very badly on the east side of a steep mountain and
enclosed by hills on all sides, so that the afternoon’s sun is hid by four o’clock and
the fogs hang over us till nine or ten.”35 While Lawrence sampled the waters, George
distracted himself with surveying trips in the surrounding countryside.
As Lawrence’s condition deteriorated, he decided to gamble on a trip to Barbados, hoping the tropical warmth would revive him; at the time, people with consumption ﬂocked to Barbados as an open-air sanatorium. Because Lawrence’s wife
had just given birth to a daughter, it again fell upon George, nineteen, to accompany his thirty-three-year-old brother, acting as both nursemaid and companion.
So grave was Lawrence’s prognosis that the brothers braved a season of severe hurricanes in the West Indies. On the boat to Barbados, George kept a ship’s log, in
which he documented heaving seas and blustery weather. After an exceptionally
rough thirty-seven-day passage, the ship docked at Barbados on November 3, 1751.
In short order, Lawrence was examined by a Dr. William Hillary, who delivered the
hopeful opinion that Lawrence could be saved.
This reprieve provided a ﬂeeting opportunity for George to relish his only trip
outside of North America. As the two brothers rode outside of town in “the cool of
the evening” to seek their new lodgings, George seemed enraptured by the profuse
tropical ﬂowers and foliage and extolled the “beautiful prospects which on every
side presented to our view the ﬁelds of cane, corn, fruit trees etc. in a delightful green.”36 His senses came alive to the island’s sights and sounds. He savored
avocado and pineapple for the ﬁrst time and marveled at the most gargantuan
collection of fruits he had ever seen heaped on a dinner table. When he attended
a melodrama by George Lillo entitled The London Merchant, it was probably his
ﬁrst taste of a professional stage production, marking the start of a lasting fondness for theater.
The two brothers rented rooms outside Bridgetown from a Captain Croftan, the
commander of Fort James, who introduced them to island society. Aside from early
morning rides with George, Lawrence was too debilitated to engage in much activity. In his despondent letters home, he bewailed their situation—“We soon tire of
the same prospect. We have no bodily diversions but dancing”—even as George was
enchanted by the social whirl.37 From his window, the young man surveyed ships
gliding by in Carlisle Bay and watched soldiers execute drills. He also appraised the

Fortune’s Favorite r! 25

island’s fort with the critical eye of a future general. “It’s pretty strongly fortiﬁed,”
he wrote in his diary, “and mounts about 36 guns within the fortiﬁcations.”38
Even amid the trip’s escapist pleasures, George had a conspicuous habit of
improving himself, turning everything into an educational opportunity. He took
copious notes on a multitude of topics. Curiously, the sole reference to slavery concerned the sensational trial of a slave owner, Colonel Benjamin Charnock, who was
acquitted of raping his maid. George bore little sympathy for Charnock, as revealed
by his reference to him as a man of “opulent fortune and infamous character.”39
The most intriguing diary entry contains shrewd observations on the leadership
style of the Barbados governor, with George noting that “as he avoids the errors
of his predecessor, he give[s] no handle for complaint. But, at the same time, by
declining much familiarity, [he] is not overzealously beloved.”40 The proper degree
of familiarity between governors and the governed would be an absorbing preoccupation throughout his career. George Washington, too, would decline familiarity
and sometimes inspire more respect than outright love.
Just two weeks after arriving on Barbados, George started running a high fever
and contracted a savage headache, evidence that he had been “strongly attacked
with the smallpox,” as he noted in his diary.41 Within a few days ghastly red pustules erupted across his forehead and scalp. For three weeks the feverish young
man, conﬁned to bed, was nursed back to health by the “very constant” presence
of Dr. John Lanahan.42 Before long, the pustules turned to scabs, then dropped
off altogether, leaving a smattering of reddish-brown spots. For the rest of his life,
George’s nose was lightly pitted with pockmarks, a defect discreetly edited from
many sanitized portraits. The smallpox siege ended with his complete recovery on
December 12, 1751. In retrospect, George’s brush with a mild case of smallpox was a
fantastic stroke of luck, furnishing him with immunity to the most virulent scourge
of eighteenth-century armies.
Exactly one week after his recovery, George returned home to Virginia aboard
a ship, the Industry, and endured yet another wrenching, storm-tossed journey. To
compound his woes, as he succumbed to seasickness, a seaman ﬁlched his money
while he lay dozing. By the time his ship made landfall in Yorktown in late January,
George must have had an aversion to sea voyages, for he never essayed one again.
He stopped off in Williamsburg, armed with letters of reference to Robert Dinwiddie, the new lieutenant governor, who invited him to dine and was to emerge as a
prominent new mentor. George then hurried off to Mount Vernon to relay to Ann
the dreadful news that Lawrence still languished in Barbados with no relief from his
illness. Lawrence clung to one last wispy hope: that a stay in Bermuda would work
the magic that had failed to materialize in Barbados, and he compared himself
grimly to “a criminal condemned, though not without hopes of reprieve.”43

26

r! The Frontiersm a n

With his brother marooned in Bermuda, George returned to surveying near
his Bullskin Plantation in northern Frederick County and further supplemented
his holdings there. Perhaps because his immune system was compromised after his
bout of smallpox, George suffered yet another frightening illness, a “violent pleurisy” that must have petriﬁed him with the prospect that he, too, had developed
tuberculosis.44 Though an exceptionally muscular and vigorous young man, he was
susceptible to the many illnesses that ran freely in eighteenth-century Virginia.
In a bizarre piece of timing, George attempted a bit of courtship from his sickbed. He sought to win the hand of sixteen-year-old Elizabeth “Betsy” Fauntleroy,
whose father was a luminary in Richmond County. The adolescent George seemed
to daydream about one rich, unattainable girl after another. Having now recovered
from the charms of the “Low Land Beauty,” he was stalking bigger game. From a
letter that he wrote to William Fauntleroy, Betsy’s father, we can see that the girl
had already rejected his advances. As George apprised the father, he intended “as
soon as I recover my strength to wait on Miss Betsy in hopes of a revocation of the
former, cruel sentence and see if I can meet with any alteration in my favor.”45 Unfortunately we do not have the father’s response to this letter, leaving us to wonder
whether Fauntleroy scoffed at George as a bumptious parvenu who aspired above
his social rank.
Fate was about to hand George some advantages that would bring such a lofty
marriage within his grasp. Lawrence’s hope that Bermuda would rejuvenate him
turned out to be his last illusion: returning to Virginia, he died at Mount Vernon
on July 26, 1752. For George, his brother’s death at age thirty-four was emotionally equivalent to the death of a second father and possibly more devastating. He
had identiﬁed with Lawrence, shared in his professional life, and participated intimately in his terminal illness. Lawrence left his affairs in such a disorderly state that
George, as an executor, bewailed their being in “the utmost confusion.”46 Luckily,
the debts proved manageable, and Lawrence’s death provided another bonanza
for George, on whom windfalls showered at the most implausible moments. In
his will, Lawrence bequeathed to him three parcels of land in Fredericksburg. Far
more consequential was a clause stipulating that, if Ann and their infant daughter
died without an heir, George would inherit the 2,500 acres of Mount Vernon and
adjoining properties “in consideration of the natural love and affection” which
Lawrence had borne “unto his loving brother George Washington.”47 At the time of
Lawrence’s death, this eventuality seemed a distant prospect, many decades away,
if ever.
George had long hoped to emulate his admired brother, but now he would
almost graft his life onto Lawrence’s, as if George would extend his brother’s short
life and fulﬁll its golden promise. The older brother became a revered ﬁgure in

Fortune’s Favorite r! 27

George’s memory, “a young man of the most promising talents.”48 Though George
was poorly equipped for such a post, lacking military experience, he vigorously
pursued the position of adjutant general left vacant by his brother’s death. Inspired
by Lawrence’s example, he decided to swap a surveyor’s life for that of a soldier.
The colony had now been divided into four districts, with an adjutant responsible
for each. Naturally, George wanted to serve as adjutant in the district covering the
Northern Neck. When he was awarded the Southern District instead, he seemed not
thrilled by his assignment to an important post but dismayed by the low-prestige
district.
At twenty, George already had enough powerful patrons in Williamsburg to
jockey to alter the decision. When William Fitzhugh, who was named to the Northern Neck adjutancy, moved to Maryland, Washington saw an opening to lobby to
replace him. “I am sensible my best endeavors will not be wanting and doubt not but
by a constant application to ﬁt myself for the ofﬁce,” he wrote to Dinwiddie. “Could
I presume your Honour had not in view a more deserving person, I ﬂatter myself
I should meet with the approbation of the Gentlemen of the council.”49 The young
Washington could be alternately fawning and assertive, appealingly modest and
distressingly pushy. While he knew the social forms, he could never quite restrain,
much less conceal, the unstoppable force of his ambition. In the end, Fitzhugh resigned his post and yielded the Northern Neck adjutancy to young Washington. In
early February 1753, just before his twenty-ﬁrst birthday, George Washington took
the oath of ofﬁce and became district adjutant, which paid one hundred pounds
annually and crowned him with the title of Major Washington.
In his seemingly inexorable rise in the world, Washington proved no less resourceful in the social sphere. In September 1752 a new Masonic lodge was convened in Fredericksburg, and two months later Washington was inducted as one
of its ﬁrst apprentices. Within a year he progressed swiftly through the ranks to
become a Master Mason. We don’t know how Washington reacted to the fraternal
group’s arcane rituals and occult signs. Still a relatively young movement, Freemasonry had been founded in London in 1717, drawing its symbols from the squares
and compasses of masons’ guilds. While American Masons preached the Enlightenment ideals of universal brotherhood and equality, they discarded the anticlerical bent of their European brethren. Washington believed devoutly in the group’s
high-minded values. He attended lodge meetings sporadically, came to own two
Masonic aprons, walked in Masonic processions, and was even painted in full Masonic regalia during his second term as president. Repeatedly throughout his career,
he paid tribute to the movement. “So far as I am acquainted with the principles and
doctrines of Free Masonry,” he said toward the end of his life, “I conceive it to be
founded in benevolence and to be exercised only for the good of Mankind.”50 On

28

r! The Frontiersm a n

another occasion, he stated that the purpose of Freemasonry was to “enlarge the
sphere of social happiness” and “to promote the happiness of the human race.”51
Whatever credence he gave to Masonic ideals, the young George Washington, a
born joiner, was likely drawn to the group as a convivial place to hobnob and expand his social contacts.
What strikes one most about the twenty-year-old George Washington was that
his sudden remarkable standing in the world was the result not so much of a slow,
agonizing progress as of a series of rapid, abrupt leaps that thrust him into the
topmost echelons of Virginia society. The deaths of those he loved most dearly had,
ironically, brightened his prospects the most. Quite contrary to his own wishes, the
untimely deaths of his father and his half brother had endowed him with extraordinary advantages in the form of land, slaves, and social status. Every misfortune
only pushed him further along his desired path. Most providential of all for him
was that Lawrence Washington had expired on the eve of the French and Indian
War, a conﬂict in which George’s newfound status as district adjutant would place
him squarely at the forefront of a thunderous global confrontation.

chapter three

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Wilderness Mission

Th roughou t h is c a r e e r, George Washington had the imposing face and
virile form that suited a commanding leader. His most delicate feature was a complexion fair enough to sunburn easily; to shield him from sunlight in later years, he
rode around Mount Vernon with an umbrella fastened to his saddle bow. The mild,
deep-set eyes, of a pale grayish blue, seemed to glow with an inner ﬁre whenever he
grew excited. When Gilbert Stuart painted them a more brilliant blue, he explained
that in a hundred years they would fade to the right color.
Washington’s hair was reddish brown, and contrary to a common belief, he
never wore a wig. The illusion that he did so derived from the powder that he
sprinkled on his hair with a puffball in later life. He wore his long hair tied up in
a black ribbon, knotted at the nape, in an arrangement called a queue. However
formal it looks to modern eyes, the style was favored by military ofﬁcers. Pulling
the hair back also broadened the forehead and lent him an air of martial nobility.
Once his hair was drawn into a queue (or sometimes a silk bag) behind him, the
side hairs were ﬂuffed out into twin projecting wings, furthering the appearance
of a wig.
It is commonly said that Washington stood six foot two or three, an estimate
that gained currency after a doctor measured his corpse at six feet three and a half
inches. Even though dozens of contemporaries pegged his height at only six feet,
there is no need for any guesswork. Before the Revolutionary War, Washington ordered his clothes from London each year and had to describe his measurements
with great accuracy. In a 1761 letter, he informed his remote tailor that “my stature
is six feet, otherwise rather slender than corpulent,” and he never deviated from

30

r! The Frontiersm a n

that formula.1 Obviously, Washington couldn’t afford to tell a ﬁb about his height
to his tailor. One can only surmise that when the doctor measured his cadaver, his
toes were pointing outward, padding his height by several inches compared with
his everyday stature.
Washington’s weight ﬂuctuated between 175 pounds as a young man and 210
and 220 during the war years. From the time of his youth, he was powerfully roughhewn and endowed with matchless strength. When he clenched his jaw, his cheek
and jaw muscles seemed to ripple right through his skin. Even though he was exceedingly graceful, his body was oddly shaped, with a small head in proportion
to his general frame. He possessed strong but narrow shoulders and wide, ﬂaring
hips with muscular thighs that made him a superb horseman. It was the long limbs
and big bones, not the pinched torso, that hinted at superhuman strength, and his
hands were so gigantic that he had to wear custom-made gloves. But the massive
physique was never matched by a stentorian voice. The pleurisy that Washington
suffered as a young man left him hollow-chested. Never a superior orator, Washington spoke with a weak, breathy voice that only exacerbated the problem.
Washington’s features were strong, blunt, and handsome. His nose was thick
and ﬂat and squared off at the bottom; it ﬂamed a bright red in a wintry wind.
Often easygoing with friends, he was praised by one companion for his “good nature and hatred of ceremony,” yet people spotted that his outward tranquillity was
deceptive and that he had trained his face to mask his emotions.2 On the other
hand, those potent emotions would repeatedly break through his well-composed
facade at critical junctures throughout his career. In 1760 his friend and former
aide George Mercer captured Washington’s constant struggle between his digniﬁed
reserve and his underlying feelings: “His features are regular and placid with all the
muscles of his face under perfect control, though ﬂexible and expressive of deep
feeling when moved by emotions. In conversation, he looks you full in the face,
is deliberate, deferential, and engaging. His demeanor at all times [is] composed
and digniﬁed. His movements and gestures are graceful, his walk majestic, and he
is a splendid horseman.”3 So perfect was his posture that he was described as “as
straight as an Indian.”4 Very particular about his appearance, he dressed in style
while avoiding ostentation. At twenty-three, he told his brother Jack, “As wearing
boots is quite the mode, and mine are in a declining state, I must beg the favour of
you to procure me a pair that is good and neat.”5 Even at this early age, Washington suffered from tooth decay, perhaps contributing to some self-consciousness. As
Mercer noted, “His mouth is large and generally ﬁrmly closed, but which from time
to time discloses some defective teeth.”6
·

·

·

Wilderness Mission r! 3 1

Th rough h is a pp oi n t m e n t as district adjutant in February 1753, Washington was soon enmeshed in epochal events, as the British and French empires began
to clash over their colonial possessions. In 1753 Britain’s North American colonies,
mostly clustered along the eastern seaboard, inhabited a corridor ﬂanked by the
Atlantic Ocean and the Allegheny Mountains. French colonial holdings followed a
sweeping arc from New Orleans to the southwest, up through the Mississippi River,
into the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River. When both major powers claimed
control of the huge Ohio Country—covering present-day Ohio and Indiana, along
with parts of western Pennsylvania and West Virginia—their imperial ambitions
suddenly collided in ominous fashion.
On the British side, the impetus for this looming confrontation came from the
huge royal grant to the Ohio Company. To encourage settlers and protect them
from French encroachment, Lawrence Washington and his colleagues advocated
establishing a fort and trading post at the Forks of the Ohio (the site of present-day
Pittsburgh), which would act as the ﬂash point of imperial conﬂict for many years.
In 1752 the Marquis de Duquesne, governor general of French Canada, countered
the British move by announcing plans to construct several forts between Lake Erie
and the Ohio River system, buttressing French claims in a smooth crescent from
Canada to the Mississippi. This aggressive move guaranteed a violent clash with
British forces.
Lieutenant Governor Robert Dinwiddie, a portly, bewigged Scot, was a prime
investor in the Ohio Company. Born in Glasgow and a former customs ofﬁcial in
Bermuda, he had a beefy, well-fed face with a drooping chin, which one wag aptly
described as the “face of a longtime tax collector.”7 He wanted to secure the Ohio
Company’s interests as well as the lucrative fur trade with the Indians, so he lobbied London for permission to erect forts in the Ohio Country. In August 1753 his
superiors returned a dispatch that forever altered the life of George Washington.
Dinwiddie was empowered to create a chain of forts in the disputed area and to
send an envoy to the French to deliver a solemn ultimatum that they should vacate
this territory claimed by England. It was a sure recipe for military conﬂict.
Washington likely learned of this directive from Colonel William Fairfax and in
late October galloped off to Williamsburg to proffer his services as the special envoy.
His prompt resolve demonstrated his courage and conﬁdence and suggested no ordinary craving for success. Incredibly enough, on October 31, 1753, Dinwiddie and
his council entrusted the twenty-one-year-old with this perilous mission. Three decades later Washington reﬂected on the extraordinary circumstance “that so young
and inexperienced a person should have been employed on a negotiation with which
subjects of the greatest importance were involved.”8 The instructions that Dinwiddie had received from London—and that Washington presumably stashed in his

32

r! The Frontiersm a n

saddlebag—stated categorically that if the French were found to be building forts
on English soil, they should be peacefully asked to depart. If they failed to comply,
however, “we do hereby strictly charge and command you to drive them off by force
of arms.”9 This order was signed by none other than King George II.
How could young George Washington have snared this prestigious commission?
At the time, few Virginians were seasoned in frontier warfare, creating a simple lack
of competitors. Washington conﬁrmed that he was picked to go “when I believe
few or none would have undertaken it.”10 Some practical reasons made Washington
an excellent choice. He knew the western country from surveying; had the robust
constitution to survive the winter woods; was mostly unﬂappable; had a mature
appearance and sound judgment; and was a model youth, with no tincture of rowdiness in his nature. In certain ways, he was a very old young man. In London’s
Gentleman’s Magazine, an approving author explained Washington’s selection by
stating that he was “a youth of great sobriety, diligence, and ﬁdelity.”11 His friendship with leading personalities of the Ohio Company likely clinched the appointment. Four years later he admitted that there had been pervasive suspicions in other
colonies that he represented only the interests of the company.
Such was the urgency of Washington’s mission that he set out for the western
country the same day he pocketed the assignment. He stopped in Fredericksburg
to enlist the services of Jacob Van Braam, a Dutchman by birth and a fellow Mason
who would serve as his French interpreter. A proﬁcient swordsman, Van Braam had
taught Washington how to fence. Two weeks later, at Wills Creek on the Potomac
River in western Maryland, he also signed up Christopher Gist, a skilled guide and
surveyor of the backcountry, who knew “more of Indians and of the nature of the
country than any man here,” as Washington was informed.12 He also recruited four
other men from the backwoods, including two Indian traders.
Even for someone with Washington’s formidable stamina, this trip made incomparably daunting demands. Washington recalled how, “at a most inclement
season,” he had traveled 250 miles “thro[ugh] an uninhabited wilderness country”
to “within 15 miles of Lake Erie in the depth of winter, when the whole face of the
earth was covered with snow and the waters covered with ice.”13 It proved “as fatiguing a journey as it is possible to conceive, rendered so by excessive bad weather.”14
Starting in mid-November, he and his party spent a week crossing the Allegheny
Mountains, slogging along a tortuous wilderness trail that twisted through impenetrable forest, forcing them to wade across streams and scale high ridges. They traveled through “excessive rains and [a] vast quantity of snow” that drenched them at
every turn.15 After a wretched week, they found warmth and comfort in the rough
cabin of an Indian trader named John Fraser, at the junction of the Monongahela
River and Turtle Creek.

Wilderness Mission r! 33

The Monongahela was so swollen by incessant rain and snow that Washington found it “quite impassable.” To lighten the heavy load on his packhorses, he
had two men transport the baggage downstream by canoe, while he and others
rode ahead on horseback. When they reached the Forks of the Ohio, Washington
boldly showed the equestrian prowess that would later assume legendary proportions. Where others balked at crossing the frigid, fast-moving Allegheny on
horseback, Washington showed no qualms. He vigorously urged his horse into
the freezing current, sitting upright as it glided across the water—a magniﬁcent
image repeated many times later in his career. The more cautious group members
went across by canoe.
Part of Washington’s mandate was to evaluate this spot for a fort that would
form a bulwark against French expansion. He gave the site his provisional approval
and commended it as “extremely well situated for a fort, as it has the absolute
command of both rivers.”16 But having traversed the Allegheny, Washington also
worried that it was “a very rapid swift-running water,” and he came to prefer the
navigation of the Monongahela River, which would offer a calmer waterway for
Virginia’s frontier settlers.17
Washington had been directed to establish contact with the leaders of local Indian tribes—the “Sachems of the Six Nations” of the Iroquois—and extract intelligence from them about French operations.18 He was also supposed to wheedle them
into providing an escort to the French commander at Fort Le Boeuf, just south of
Lake Erie. Winning over the Indians was no easy matter, since the Ohio Country
had long been their hunting grounds and they reacted warily to European interference. On November 22 Washington made his initial contact with the Indians, meeting Chief Shingas of the Delawares, whom he invited along to a parley with other
chieftains at the village of Logstown (today the town of Baden, Pennsylvania).
From these early dealings with Native Americans, Washington was later spared
either a racist attitude toward them or a tendency to sentimentalize them. He seemed
cynical but accepting about Indian diplomacy: “The Indians are mercenary—every
service of theirs must be purchased—and they are easily offended, being thoroughly sensible of their own importance.”19 Once at Logstown, with an assurance
that belied his years, Washington not only summoned the Seneca tribal leader,
Tanacharison—known to the English simply as the Half King—who was then off
on a hunting trip, but also distributed needed largesse to his deputy, Monacatoocha. “I gave him a string of wampum and a twist of tobacco and desired him to send
for the Half King, which he promised to do by a runner in the morning.”20 From
the outset, Washington conveyed an authoritative air that seemed instinctive. While
awaiting the Half King, he quizzed four French deserters who had come up the
Mississippi River. From them, he was able to corroborate the prevalent suspicion

34

r! The Frontiersm a n

in Williamsburg that the French planned to encircle the British by uniting their
Louisiana territory with Canada and the Great Lakes.
When the Half King, a man in his ﬁfties, arrived in Logstown on November 25,
he must have been taken aback to ﬁnd a young envoy less than half his age inviting
him into his tent. The previous year the chieftain had signed a treaty with the British, making him their nominal ally, and he had sternly warned the French against
incursions in the region. He had a visceral dislike of the French, claiming that they
had murdered, cooked, and consumed his father. He had bristled at high-handed
treatment from Sieur de Marin, the French commandant, who referred to Indians as “ﬂies or mosquitoes.”21 It soon became clear why the Half King preferred
the British: they had come (or so he thought) simply to trade, whereas the French
wished to seize their lands. (Other Indians, however, suspected the British of having
designs on their homelands and sided with the French for the same reason.) Washington quickly discovered that the Half King was an artful diplomat who expected
the British to respect Indian rights. It is clear that Washington believed devoutly in
his mission and was incensed at French machinations to woo the chieftain. At this
stage of his life, he trusted implicitly in the wisdom and benevolence of the British
Empire.
By all indications, Washington handled his talk with the Half King smoothly.
A cordial feeling arose between them, even though the Indian chief gave Washington the same predatory nickname, Conotocarious, that had been bestowed on his
great-grandfather, John Washington. There’s no evidence that Washington spurned
the name as pejorative. In fact, he seemed proud of it, as if it were conferred with
affection. After the Revolutionary War, he observed of the name that the Indians
had “communicated [it] to other nations” and that it was “remembered by them
ever since in all their transactions with [me] during the late war.”22
The next day, when Washington addressed an Indian council, he slid deftly into
the requisite high-ﬂown style: “Brothers, I have called you together in Council, by
order of your brother the governor of Virginia.”23 At this ﬁrst meeting, Washington
concealed the true nature of his mission, testing, for the ﬁrst time, the diplomatic
merits of evasion. He asked the Indians to provide an escort of young warriors for
his journey to the French commandant. The Half King requested a few days’ delay,
so that Washington could receive ceremonial wampum from the Shawnee chiefs.
Now a young man in a hurry, bearing the weight of an empire on his shoulders,
Washington chafed at the notion, but his better judgment prevailed over his quick
temper. “When I found them so pressing in their request . . . I consented to stay as
I believed an offence offered at this crisis might have been attended with greater ill
consequence than another day’s delay,” he wrote in his frontier journal.24 In the end,
the Indians mustered a paltry four escorts, including the Half King, then rational-

Wilderness Mission r! 35

ized the small party as a way to prevent the French from suspecting hostile intentions. Washington penetrated this cover story to spy the true reason for the tiny
convoy: deep-seated Indian ambivalence about their British allies.
After a ﬁve-day journey north in a pounding rain, Washington’s party arrived
at the trading post of Venango, located at the conﬂuence of the Allegheny River
and French Creek. Here he met a French ofﬁcer, Captain Philippe Thomas de Joncaire, and had another chance to sharpen his diplomatic skills. The offspring of
a French ofﬁcer and a Seneca woman, Joncaire invited Washington to dine with
some French ofﬁcers. The Frenchmen drank freely and talked indiscreetly, while
Washington never shed his steely self-control: “The wine, as they dosed themselves
pretty plentifully with it, soon banished the restraint which at ﬁrst appeared in
their conversation and gave license to their tongues to reveal their sentiments more
freely.” To his amazement, the French bragged about “their absolute design to take
possession of the Ohio” and even spilled military secrets about the location of their
forts.25 Washington’s sense of triumph was premature. The next day the Frenchmen
seduced the Indians with so much food and drink that they got roaring drunk and
were reluctant to proceed. Joncaire was obviously a more slippery foe than the callow Washington had realized. The young envoy was still feeling his way in a disorienting new world that did not abide by the polite rules of Virginia drawing rooms.
After three days in Venango, Washington pushed on toward Fort Le Boeuf amid
more inclement weather. Now fortiﬁed by both an Indian and a French escort,
he traversed forty miles of treacherous terrain, punctuated by “many mires and
swamps.”26 Even though he usually had an iron constitution and was accustomed
to harsh weather, the temperature had turned intolerably cold. He and Christopher
Gist decided to ride on ahead of the others through a snow-encrusted landscape,
logging as many as eighteen miles per day in unending rain and snow.
When Washington reached Fort Le Boeuf after dark on December 11, he found
a crude structure of four buildings, patched together from bark and planks. The
next morning he received an obliging reception from the silver-haired, one-eyed
commander, Captain Jacques Legardeur de St. Pierre, whom Washington described
as an “elderly gentleman” with “much the air of a soldier.”27 Despite the civil reception, Washington carried a truculent message that the French should quit the Ohio
Valley, and St. Pierre requested several days to respond. During this time Washington reconnoitered the grounds and scribbled detailed notes on the fort’s military
speciﬁcations. He noted the 220 birch and pine canoes lined up along the creek,
which the French had assembled for military operations. St. Pierre made clear that
he was not intimidated by the British and retained every right to arrest their traders poaching on French territory. “As to the summons you send me to retire,” he
told Washington, “I do not think myself obliged to obey it.”28 Clearly the British

36

r! The Frontiersm a n

had not misread the hostile intent lurking behind French expansion into the Ohio
Country.
As with Joncaire, Washington discovered that St. Pierre’s elaborate courtesy
masked a dense web of sinister intentions. On December 14 he summoned Washington, handed over a sealed message for Governor Dinwiddie, and then—ever the
attentive host—said he had stocked Washington’s canoe with supplies for the journey home. Only then did Washington discover that the crafty St. Pierre had waylaid
his Indian guards by bribing them with guns and liquor if they stayed behind. Irate
at such duplicity, Washington mentally accused St. Pierre of “plotting every scheme
that the devil and man could invent to set our Indians at variance with us to prevent
their going till after our departure.”29 In the end, Washington hotly confronted the
Half King, accused him of patent betrayal, and got him to depart with the British
party as promised.
Now eager to return to Williamsburg and sound the alarm about nefarious
French designs, he set off toward a place called Murthering Town. By this point, his
horses were so enfeebled that he decided to abandon them and hike with backpacks.
Adapting to the woods, he stripped off his Tidewater costume and assumed “an Indian walking dress” of leather leggings and possibly even moccasins.30 This return
trip tested his wilderness skills. At ﬁrst, he and Gist steered their canoe downstream
in an icy, churning current that nearly dashed them against jagged rocks. At the ﬁrst
resting place, they found that their Indian guides, dining on roasted bears, wouldn’t
budge until they had consumed this feast.
With the cold weather having grown “scarcely supportable,” Washington and
Gist soldiered on alone to Murthering Town, where they picked up a “party of
French Indians” who pledged to guide them on foot along the fastest route to the
Forks of the Ohio.31 The group trudged on for miles, with Washington so exhausted
that he allowed one Indian guide to carry his backpack. Washington trusted this
Indian, but Gist intuited something amiss as the woods suddenly grew unfamiliar. At one point, when they came to a meadow, the Indian hustled out into the
clearing without warning, spun around, and ﬁred at them point-blank from ﬁfteen
paces. Washington, unscathed, saw Gist race to disarm the Indian. “Are you shot?”
the young man hollered, and Gist shouted back, “No.” Gist jumped on the Indian,
pinned him to the ground, and was about to execute him with his musket when
Washington pleaded for his life. They kept the Indian bound and released him after
dark. As he scuttled off into the woods, Washington and Gist, fearing he might return with others, dashed in the opposite direction. “As you will not have him killed,”
Gist upbraided Washington, “we must get him away and then we must travel all
night”—which is exactly what they did.32
When these weary travelers arrived at an icy river, they expected to ﬁnd it frozen

Wilderness Mission r! 3 7

solid. Instead, a large section of icy water swirled in the middle of the river. With
“one poor hatchet,” Washington remembered, he and Gist devoted an entire day to
hacking out a rude raft to ﬂoat them across.33 Midway across the river, it became
wedged in an ice ﬂoe, stuck so fast that Washington “expected every moment our
raft would sink and we perish.”34 He tried to free the craft by pushing a pole against
the river bottom: “I put out my setting pole to try to stop the raft that the ice might
pass by, when the rapidity of the stream threw it with so much violence against the
pole that it jerked me into ten feet [of] water.”35 Bobbing breathlessly in the current,
Washington latched onto one log of the raft and heaved himself onto its surface.
Unable to get ashore, he and Gist lay stranded on an island in the river. Although
Washington had been submerged in the icy water, it was Gist who suffered frostbite
in his toes and ﬁngers. The pair withstood the elements on the island all night. By
the next morning, the river having congealed into a sheet of ice, they were able to
scramble across to safety. Clearly, to have survived these mishaps, Washington must
have been a physical prodigy, made of seemingly indestructible stuff. In his ﬁrst
political assignment, he had overcome a punishing array of obstacles, both physical
and psychological, without losing sight of his primary objectives.
After stopping brieﬂy at Belvoir to regale the Fairfax family with tales of his
wilderness saga, Washington beat a path to Williamsburg and on January 16, 1754,
handed to Governor Dinwiddie the sealed letter from the French commandant,
who refused to capitulate before British threats. Washington also supplied the governor with a map of Fort Le Boeuf and careful estimates of French military power.
Impressed by the thoroughness with which Washington had tackled this complex
task, Dinwiddie asked him to take the nearly seven thousand words of his frontier
journal and convert them overnight into a coherent report for the council.
In presenting this narrative to the governor, Washington struck a note of servility: “I hope it will be sufﬁcient to satisfy Your Honour with my proceedings, for that
was my aim in undertaking the journey and chief study throughout the prosecution
of it.”36 Washington had no time to buff his prose and prefaced his journal with a
disclaimer: “There intervened but one day between my arrival in Williamsburg and
the time for the Council’s meeting for me to prepare and transcribe, from the rough
minutes I had taken in my travels, this journal.” Such a timetable “admitted of no
leisure to consult of a new and proper form to offer it in or to correct or amend the
diction of the old.”37 It was an early example of Washington being nagged by his
sense of an inadequate education.
Published in colonial newspapers as far aﬁeld as Massachusetts, this report had
repercussions beyond anything Washington could have envisioned. In late January,
Dinwiddie alerted the Board of Trade in London to the prospect of a major French
encroachment in the spring: the French would marshal ﬁfteen hundred French sol-

38

r! The Frontiersm a n

diers and countless Indian warriors and commence a program to build more forts
in the Ohio Country. To substantiate his case, Dinwiddie sent along Washington’s
report, which was published in London in pamphlet form as The Journal of Major
George Washington, giving the obscure young man instant renown in the British
Empire. The slim volume helped kindle a spark that eventually led to the conﬂagration of the French and Indian War. Washington had expected money as well as
fame for his trouble and was not assuaged when the assembly voted him a measly
ﬁfty-pound reward. As he grumbled to his brother Augustine, “I was employed to
go a journey in the winter . . . and what did I get by it? My expenses borne!”38 It was
Washington’s ﬁrst bitter lesson in politics.
Washington parlayed the governor’s approval of his work into a central role
in the colony’s upcoming military campaign in the Ohio Country. Within a week
of arriving in Williamsburg, he was authorized, as adjutant of the Northern Neck
District, to raise and train one hundred militia. Joined by another hundred troops,
they were to march to the Forks of the Ohio and construct a fort. On January 28
Washington contacted another Virginia ofﬁcial, Richard Corbin, and lobbied him
for a promotion. Once again his style was both assertive and self-effacing: he tugged
the forelock and pushed himself forward at once, as if he knew he was being boorish but couldn’t contain himself. He started out by conceding that the “command
of the whole forces” of Virginia would be “a charge too great for my youth and
inexperience.” Then he continued: “But if I could entertain hopes that you thought
me worthy of the post of lieutenant colonel and would favour me so far as to mention it at the appointment of ofﬁcers, I could not but entertain a true sense of the
kindness.” This dogged young man cited “my own application and diligent study of
my duty,” rather than his ability, as the best reason for his promotion.39 As it turned
out, Washington did not overstate his worth, and Dinwiddie presented him with a
commission as a lieutenant colonel. Almost twenty-two, Washington was emerging
as a wunderkind to be reckoned with in the world of Virginia politics.

chapter four

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Bloodbath

From h is h e a d qua rt e r s i n A l e x a n dr i a, Lieutenant Colonel George
Washington attempted to inject discipline into a group of raw recruits he had enlisted for the impending march. Scarcely the spit-and-polish outﬁt of his dreams,
they were marginal ﬁgures who inhabited the fringes of colonial society, and his
attitude toward these rank amateurs mingled sympathy with vague distaste. As he
bemoaned to Dinwiddie, most of these soldiers were “loose, idle persons that are
quite destitute of house and home and I may truly say many of them of clothes.”1
Throughout his career, Washington complained of his charges being too rambunctious; they never seemed mannerly enough for his tastes. These scruffy, underfunded troops lacked shoes, stockings, shirts, and coats, as well as cutlasses,
halberds, pikes, and drums. Their tattered clothing was especially upsetting for
Washington, who lobbied Dinwiddie for red uniforms, advancing the novel sartorial theory that among the Indians red “is compared to blood and is looked upon
as the distinguishing marks of warriors and great men.”2 He went so far as to opine
that the Indians ridiculed the French soldiers’ shabby appearance, “and I really believe [that] is the chief motive why they hate and despise them as they do.”3
To head the expedition, Dinwiddie named Joshua Fry, a former mathematics professor at the College of William and Mary; the English-born and Oxford-educated
Fry was given command of the Virginia Regiment with the rank of colonel. Since
Fry was already in his midﬁfties, Washington was stuck below a lumbering old man,
as he likely perceived him. Most of all, however, he sulked about the inequitable
treatment of colonial ofﬁcers. Under the British imperial system, a captain from
England with a royal commission could boss around Lieutenant Colonel Washing-

40

r! The Frontiersm a n

ton, even though the latter held a nominally higher rank—the sort of slight that
rankled for many years with the proud young Virginian.
By mid-March, as intelligence reports ﬁltered back from the Ohio Country of a
French raiding party speeding toward the Forks of the Ohio, an apprehensive Dinwiddie ordered Washington “to march what soldiers you have enlisted immediately
to the Ohio.”4 He furnished Washington with broadly elastic orders. In general,
he was to maintain a defensive posture but could initiate hostilities if the French
meddled with any military works or English settlements. Not mincing words, Dinwiddie granted him the power to apply deadly force, telling him that “you are to
restrain all such offenders and in case of resistance to make prisoners of or kill
and destroy them.”5 This open-ended mandate was crucial to the dramatic events
shortly to unfold.
On April 2, 1754, Washington set out for the wilderness with 160 green recruits.
For the ﬁrst time, he must have felt like a true commander. Their supply-laden
wagons progressed slowly, for the men had to carve out a frontier road. Three weeks
later, at the junction of Wills Creek and the Potomac, a courier swept into Washington’s camp with calamitous news: French troops had descended on the Forks
en masse, forcing the surrender of British forces building a fort there; the French
had renamed this pivotal outpost Fort Duquesne. It mattered little that the British
had been aided by the Half King and his warriors, for the disparity in forces had
been staggering: the French had assembled one thousand troops, 360 boats and
canoes, and eighteen artillery pieces to subdue thirty-four helpless British soldiers.
Not surprisingly, as the news percolated through camp, Washington had to cope
with sinking morale and threatened desertions. He reassured the Half King that
while his own detachment was too small to repel the French, it merely embodied
the vanguard of “a great number of our warriors that are immediately to follow
with our great guns, our ammunition, and our provision.”6 Washington evoked a
phantom force, since Colonel Fry was bringing up the rear with little more than a
hundred soldiers.
Far from being intimidated, the courageous Washington burned with what he
called a “glowing zeal.”7 Once again he played the impromptu diplomat in the wilderness and dashed off spirited letters to Lieutenant Governor James Hamilton of
Pennsylvania and Governor Horatio Sharpe of Maryland, rallying them to send reinforcements. He was achingly aware of his youthful presumption in doing so, saying apologetically to Sharpe, “I ought ﬁrst to have begged pardon of your excellency
for this liberty of writing, as I am not happy enough to be ranked among those of
your acquaintance.” He tried to stir the governors to action in ringing language,
saying that the present contest “should rouse from the lethargy we have fallen into
the heroic spirit of every free-born Englishman to assert the rights and privileges

Bloodbath r! 4 1

of our king.”8 An unknown young surveyor two years earlier, Washington was now
penning admonitory letters to governors of neighboring colonies. Evidently he succeeded, because both Maryland and Pennsylvania dispatched more troops.
Strangely enough, at this moment of looming confrontation with the French,
Washington wrangled bitterly with Dinwiddie over the mundane matter of pay.
Washington and his men smarted over the inferior compensation colonial ofﬁcers
received compared with regular ofﬁcers. In mid-May Washington expressed dismay
to Dinwiddie over a decision by the House of Burgesses to ﬁx their pay at a steep
discount to royal British salaries, stating that he would rather serve without pay
than suffer this indignity: “But let me serve voluntarily. Then I will, with the greatest pleasure in life, devote my services to the expedition without any other reward
than the satisfaction of my country. But to be slaving dangerously for the shadow of
pay through woods, rocks, mountains—I would rather prefer the great toil of a daily
laborer and dig for a maintenance . . . than serve upon such ignoble terms.”9 From
this letter, one can see how wholly Washington had imbibed the aristocratic ethos
of the Fairfax family, since his own income scarcely entitled him to such grand, selfsacriﬁcing gestures. Dinwiddie responded with irritation, expressing surprise that
the young man for whom he had such “great expectations and hopes” should concur “with complaints in general so ill-founded.”10 He wrote in the impatient tone
of an older man who had formerly found a young protégé quite sensible and was
now shocked to ﬁnd him far more headstrong than he had reckoned. The pay issue
carried tremendous symbolic weight for the striving, hypersensitive Washington,
who chafed at anything pertaining to inferior salary and status.
On the evening of May 24, Washington received disconcerting news that a
French detachment had crossed the Youghiogeny River eighteen miles away. He
decided to establish a defensive position at a place called the Great Meadows (near
Uniontown, Pennsylvania, today), a remote, grassy area that was to ﬁgure prominently in the Washington saga. With little premonition of the disaster ahead, Washington told Dinwiddie of his plans and struck a note of juvenile bravado: “We have
with nature’s assistance made a good entrenchment and by clearing the bushes out
of these meadows prepared a charming ﬁeld for an encounter.”11 At the same time,
Washington alluded to a disturbing episode: his sentries had heard rustling noises at
night in the camp and didn’t know whether it was French interlopers or six of their
own deserters. The men had ﬁred at this unseen menace, prompting Washington
to keep his men by their guns until daybreak. This episode coincided with reports
from Christopher Gist that ﬁfty boisterous French soldiers had invaded his nearby
wilderness cabin, vowing to kill his cow and smash “everything in the house.”12 Gist
also told of suspicious tracks that presumably belonged to this shadowy band. The
Half King conﬁrmed that the French had set up camp about seven miles away.

42

r! The Frontiersm a n

At this jittery moment, Washington switched into a more aggressive mode and
decided to hunt down the French contingent. Afterward he would evoke a nightmarish march in which he and forty men trudged through sheets of rain, “in a
night as dark as pitch,” along a path so narrow they had to travel single ﬁle. On this
moonless night, they kept stumbling against each other in the black void, and seven
soldiers went astray in the woods. This harrowing atmosphere is important in understanding Washington’s hair-trigger response to the upcoming situation.
On the morning of May 28, Washington and the Half King decided to pounce
on the French intruders. Washington was convinced of their hostile intentions
by the stealthy way they had moved about. As he afterward explained, the French
“came secretly and sought after the most hidden retreats . . . and remained hid for
whole days together and that no more than ﬁve miles from us. From thence they
sent spies to reconnoiter our camp.”13 Washington’s sense of the situation, however
faulty, likely predisposed him to launch a preemptive attack.
Early that morning the Half King led him to a “low obscure place” where thirtyﬁve Frenchmen lay encamped in a secluded glen, surrounded by rocks. For Washington, this “skulking place” underscored the clandestine nature of the French
mission. He marched bravely at the head of his column, placing himself in the
most vulnerable position as they approached the sheltered hollow. With Washington’s men in front of them and the Indians slipping behind them to block their
escape, the French were encircled. According to Washington’s version of events, the
French soldiers, when they spied the British, instantly scurried for their arms and
unleashed a brisk ﬁre. Washington gave orders to ﬁre in return, and his men ripped
off two quick volleys. Trapped on low ground, the ambushed French soon threw
down their arms and surrendered. The casualty count showed a lopsided contest
in which ten French were killed and another twenty-one were captured, compared
with only one dead and two or three wounded on Washington’s side. Clearly, Washington and his men overpowered the French before they had a chance to respond,
making it seem unlikely that the latter had ﬁred ﬁrst. The whole bloody affair was
wrapped up in ﬁfteen minutes.
What converted this local skirmish into a worldwide incident was the identity
of one victim: Ensign Joseph Coulon de Villiers, Sieur de Jumonville, thirty-ﬁve,
who bore an important diplomatic message to the British, demanding their evacuation from the Ohio Country. According to one account, as Jumonville read this
ultimatum, the Half King stepped forward, split open his head with a hatchet, then
dipped his hands into the skull, rinsed them with the victim’s brains, and scalped
him. What is beyond dispute is that Washington abruptly found himself presiding over atrocities, as his Indian allies swooped down on the remaining Frenchmen “to knock the poor, unhappy wounded on the head and bereave them of their

Bloodbath r! 43

scalps,” as he wrote.14 This was a curiously ironic way to describe a bloodbath, as if
Washington wished to distance himself from the horror or pretend it was merely
routine. The Indians’ behavior placed him in an excruciating predicament, for he
didn’t wish to repudiate them after their victory or threaten their alliance. We don’t
know how many Frenchmen were murdered by Indian hatchets rather than British
muskets.
In their radically different version of events, the French claimed that they awoke
that morning to ﬁnd themselves hemmed in by Indians and Englishmen, with the
latter ﬁring ﬁrst. Through an interpreter, Monsieur de Jumonville beseeched the
English to cease ﬁring, and when they did, he read aloud his ultimatum. The French
claimed that, while reading this message, Jumonville was shot through the head by
a musket and that the remaining French would have been annihilated had not the
Indians rushed between them and the English, averting further bloodshed.
Washington may have exaggerated the British role in killing the Frenchmen to
establish his own military credentials. Whatever the exact sequence of events, he
overstated his certainty that the French were spying on him and stalking his movements; his letter to Dinwiddie had admitted to doubts about the nocturnal spying
incident. Afterward, when the French prisoners insisted that they had come only to
deliver a warning, Washington scoffed at the claim. “They informed me that they had
been sent with a summons to order me to depart. A plausible pretense to discover our
camp and to obtain the knowledge of our forces and our situation!”15 A genuine
diplomat, he maintained, would have traveled straight to him and presented his
message in a forthright manner. Washington was convinced that French espionage
was merely the prelude to a murderous assault on his men. Still, the French party
was so small that, whatever its true intent, it hardly seemed to constitute a dire
threat to the British.
The French version likewise lacks plausibility in several particulars. It is hard to
believe that Washington would have allowed a diplomatic messenger to be shot in
cold blood, as the French insisted. After all, the previous fall he himself had been
in an analogous situation, delivering a stifﬂy worded warning to the French. He
was too cautious to jeopardize his career by murdering an ambassador. On the
other hand, the French had already seized the Forks of the Ohio, and Washington
may have felt the French and British empires were now at war in all but name.
It also strains credulity that the Indians heroically thrust themselves between the
French and the British. The Half King had recommended harsh measures against
the French detachment, and in letters to Dinwiddie, Washington disclosed that the
Indian chief circulated French scalps among friendly tribes as war trophies. The
French version seems like a patent attempt to curry political favor with the Indians
by exonerating them of blame for the savagery.

44

r! The Frontiersm a n

On May 29 Washington sat down in his camp at the Great Meadows to explain
the apparent massacre to Governor Dinwiddie. Instead of turning straight to this
fateful confrontation, he bizarrely devoted the ﬁrst eight paragraphs to fresh complaints about colonial pay, which, he said, “debarred” him from “the pleasure of
good living.”16 He informed Dinwiddie that he had told Colonel Fairfax that he
intended to resign over the issue, but Fairfax had dissuaded him. Once again Washington feigned indifference to money and volunteered to serve without pay rather
than accept meager compensation. When he ﬁnally got around to the Jumonville
episode, he insisted that the French had ﬂitted about likes spies and assassins. They
had “sought one of the most secret retirements, ﬁtter for a deserter than an ambassador to encamp in—stayed there two or 3 days [and] sent spies to reconnoiter our
camp, as we are told, though they deny it.”17 For the next few weeks, Washington
passed along to Dinwiddie every scrap of intelligence gleaned from French deserters that might strengthen his case.
To his younger brother Jack, Washington sent an account that showcased his
leadership style in battle. Instead of hanging back in the rear, Washington had led by
example and exposed himself unﬂinchingly to enormous risk. “I fortunately escaped
without a wound, though the right wing where I stood was exposed to and received
all the enemy’s ﬁre and was the part where the man was killed and the rest wounded.”
He also engaged in some youthful boasting. “I can with truth assure you, I heard bullets whistle and believe me there was something charming in the sound.”18 Instead
of being traumatized by battle, he wanted to illustrate his coolness under ﬁre. When
King George II encountered Washington’s blithe comments about the “charming”
sound of bullets in a London periodical, he detected a false note of swagger. “He
would not say so if he had been used to hear many,” the king said acerbically.19
Aware that the large French army at the Forks would soon get wind of the massacre and retaliate swiftly in overwhelming numbers, Washington vowed not to
“give up one inch of what we have gained.”20 He hastily ordered his men at the
Great Meadows to dig trenches, drive in pointed stakes, and build a crude, circular, palisade-style stockade that he dubbed Fort Necessity. While the troops busily
braced for an attack, Colonel Joshua Fry tumbled from his horse and died on May
31. Thus, at age twenty-two, George Washington took full command of the Virginia
Regiment, in yet another case of his being promoted to higher things by events
beyond his control.
Surely Washington must have wondered whether Governor Dinwiddie would
applaud his encounter with the French or condemn it as violating his instructions.
On June 1 Dinwiddie sent him a letter that removed any lingering doubt: he construed the clash as a famous victory. Warmly congratulating Washington for “the
very agreeable account” of the episode, he labeled it a success on which “I heartily

Bloodbath r! 45

congratulate you, as it may give a testimony to the Ind[ian]s that the French are not
invincible w[he]n fairly engaged with the English.”21 In the next letter, Dinwiddie
heaped further praise on Washington’s “prudent measures” and said he was sending four thousand black and four thousand white strings of wampum, fortiﬁed by
three barrels of rum, for Indian diplomacy. At heart, however, Dinwiddie knew that
Washington had acted rashly and exceeded instructions, for when he wrote to the
Board of Trade in London, he converted Washington and his men into minor partners of their Indian allies. As he wrote, “This little skirmish was by the Half King
and their Indians. We were as auxiliaries to them, as my orders to the Commander
of our Forces [were] to be on the defensive.”22 While the folks at home embraced
him as an improbable hero, Washington was denigrated in England as a reckless
young warrior and in France as an outright assassin. He would have been crestfallen
to know that, for some high-ranking folks in London, his behavior only conﬁrmed
that provincial ofﬁcers couldn’t be trusted. “Washington and many such may have
courage and resolution,” Lord Albemarle wrote to the Duke of Newcastle, “but they
have no knowledge or experience in our [military] profession; consequently there can
be no dependence on them!”23 Destiny had now conferred upon Washington a pivotal
place in colonial, and even global, affairs, for the Jumonville incident was recognized
as the opening shot that precipitated the French and Indian War, known in Europe as
the Seven Years’ War. In the words of Sir Horace Walpole in London, “The volley ﬁred
by a young Virginian in the backwoods of America set the world on ﬁre.”24

A s h e st e e l e d h i mse l f at Fort Necessity for the enraged French onslaught,
Washington squabbled with Dinwiddie over the unequal treatment of provincial
ofﬁcers. Despite his good fortune, he brooded on the penalties he suffered as a
colonial. He had no quarrel, he told Dinwiddie, with the appointment of Colonel
James Innes, a veteran Scottish ofﬁcer leading a North Carolina regiment, as the
new commander in chief to replace Joshua Fry. And he enjoyed cordial relations
with Major George Muse, who brought two hundred men to Fort Necessity and deferred to Washington as leader of the Virginia Regiment. What nettled Washington
was the imminent arrival of South Carolina Independents under James Mackay, a
senior ofﬁcer who held his captaincy by royal commission. Mackay’s company was
composed mostly of colonial soldiers, but it was part of the regular British Army.
This renewed the thorny issue of whether a regular captain could lord it over Washington, who held a superior provincial rank. Washington assured Dinwiddie that he
would “endeavor to make all my ofﬁcers show Captain Mackay all the respect due to
his rank and merit, but [I] should have been particularly obliged if your Honor had
declared whether he was under my command or independent of it.”25

46

r! The Frontiersm a n

When Captain Mackay arrived with one hundred men on June 14, he quickly
asserted his prerogatives over Colonel Washington and staked out a separate campsite. When Washington sent over the parole and countersign to be used, Mackay
made it crystal clear that he wasn’t bound by orders from a lowly colonial colonel.
He also wouldn’t allow his South Carolinians to join the Virginians in an important
road-building operation, since Washington could pay only inferior colonial wages.
This high-handed behavior dealt a stinging rebuke to Washington, who was ﬁghting to protect a British Empire that insisted on consigning him to inferior status.
Increasingly, he found himself ﬁghting one war against the French and an equally
acrimonious one behind the lines with his British brethren.
As it happened, Washington had much graver problems than his minor interpersonal drama with Captain Mackay. On June 18 he huddled with the Half King
and other chieftains for three days to plot strategy against the French. In the end,
the Indians concluded that Washington and his ﬂimsy fortress couldn’t shield them
against the huge French force gathering at Fort Duquesne. This ended their shortlived alliance and threw young Washington back on his own resources. In his diary,
he inveighed against the faithless Indians as “treacherous devils who had been sent
by the French as spies” and could turn against his men at any time. The Half King,
for his part, painted a portrait of Washington as a “good-natured” but naively inept
young commander who “took upon him to command the Indians as his slaves”
and refused to “take advice from Indians.”26 He derided Fort Necessity as “that little
thing upon the meadow.”27
On June 28 Washington ordered his exhausted men, who had been dispersed
building roads, to retreat within the ﬂimsy conﬁnes of Fort Necessity. At a war
council that day, the outlook seemed pretty bleak. Intelligence reports, only slightly
exaggerated, warned that the French would attack with eight hundred French soldiers and four hundred Indians, or several times Washington’s own strength. And
their army was commanded by a Frenchman with a ﬁercely personal mission. Captain Louis Coulon de Villiers was the older brother of the fallen Jumonville and was
bent upon avenging his death. To worsen matters, Washington’s depleted men had
lacked meat or bread for six days and munched on withered corn as they dragged
ponderous cannon across hilly terrain. Yet despite his vulnerable position, Washington remained sanguine that, with only three hundred men, he could defeat the
superior French force. According to the Half King’s mocking account, Washington
thought the French soldiers would pop up conveniently in the open ﬁeld and allow
themselves to get shot.28
In choosing Fort Necessity, Washington opted for a spot poorly situated to withstand an incursion. He always refused to concede its demerits and years later still
defended the Great Meadows as a place “abounding in forage” and convenient for a

Bloodbath r! 47

stockade.29 An uncouth backwoods structure, covered with bark and animal skins,
the fort was primarily defended by nine small cannon that spun on pivots. Because
it could contain only sixty or seventy men, Washington had three-foot trenches dug
around its perimeter to protect additional men and threw up earthen breastworks
to bolster their position. Despite such precautions, Fort Necessity stood on lowlying grassland that was soft and boggy and would form stagnant ponds in the rain.
It was also surrounded by woods and high ground that could protect marksmen
within easy musket range of the fort. Signiﬁcantly, the fort was open to the sky, affording no shelter from the elements.
On the morning of July 3, 1754, Washington and his men had hunkered down
at the fort when frantic scouts reported that “a heavy, numerous body” of French
soldiers had drawn within four miles of their camp.30 They had stopped by the glen
where Jumonville was killed and discovered the unburied bodies of dead compatriots, further inﬂaming their rage. Later that morning, while Washington’s men
scooped out trenches, this invisible force took on a sudden, terrifying shape, descending on Fort Necessity in three columns. Bullets rained down from everywhere.
French and Indian soldiers “advanced with shouts and dismal Indian yells to our
entrenchments,” Washington recalled, but were greeted by a “warm, spirited and
constant” ﬁre that scattered them to the woods.31 What Washington didn’t recall
was that the British regulars under Mackay had stood steadfast under French ﬁre,
while the ranks of his own Virginia Regiment had broken and dived for cover.
Washington received a costly lesson in frontier ﬁghting as swarms of French
and Indians kept up a scalding ﬁre “from every little rising, tree, stump, stone, and
bush.”32 Their well-protected marksmen took clear shots from woods as little as
sixty yards away. Then late in the afternoon, a torrential rain began to fall—“the
most tremendous rain that can be conceived,” in Washington’s words—and it
soaked both his men and their weapons, turning the fort’s ﬂoor into a treacherous
mud bowl.33 Worst of all, the water pooled in the ditches, trapping soldiers in their
own defenses. Exposed to the sky, the men couldn’t keep their cartridges and ﬁrelocks dry, rendering their muskets useless. By the end of the day, the rain-drenched
stockade was a horriﬁc swamp of mangled bodies, lying in blood and rain. The appalling casualty toll—a hundred men dead or wounded—represented a full third
of Washington’s soldiers. The pitiless French also butchered every cow, horse, and
even dog in sight. So one-sided was the outcome that the French suffered only three
dead and seventeen wounded. To put a better gloss on the bloodshed, Washington
and Mackay magniﬁed the scale of French casualties, pegging the ﬁgure as high as
three hundred, as if the two sides had fought to an even draw.
The debacle was compounded by the surrender. It was nearly nightfall when
the French commander signaled a willingness to talk. By that point, Washington’s

48

r! The Frontiersm a n

men had pounced on the fort’s rum supply, and half of them had gotten drunk—
perhaps leaving Washington with a lifelong detestation of alcohol, especially among
soldiers. Lacking dry gunpowder and food, Washington and Mackay had no choice
but to submit; their troops were down to their last bags of ﬂour and a little bacon,
with their fresh food spoiling in the summer heat.34 The person picked to convey
the terms of surrender was Jacob Van Braam, their French interpreter. The translation of those terms caused a brouhaha that engulfed Washington in yet another
international controversy. As he shufﬂed between the two sides, Van Braam relayed
an article of capitulation that said the French assault had been in retaliation for the
assassination of Jumonville—a provocative word indeed. When Washington and
Mackay signed the agreement around midnight, they imagined that the term used
was the more neutral death or loss of Jumonville.35 Their inadvertent confession
supplied the French with a major propaganda victory.
How could this profound misunderstanding have arisen? The night of the negotiation was dark and rainy, and when Van Braam brought back the terms of surrender, Washington and the other ofﬁcers strained to read the blurry words in a dim
light. “We could scarcely keep the candlelight to read them,” recalled one ofﬁcer.
“They were wrote in a bad hand, on wet and blotted paper, so that no person could
read them but Van Braam, who had heard them from the mouth of the French ofﬁcer.”36 Not expert in English, Van Braam might have used death or loss interchangeably with assassination, yet it’s hard to imagine that he botched the translation
deliberately. What is clear is that Washington was adamant that he never consented
to the loaded word assassination. “That we were willfully, or ignorantly, deceived by
our interpreter in regard to the word assassination, I do aver and will to my dying
moment,” Washington insisted.37
In other respects, the French treated Washington and his men more honorably. They wanted to characterize their military confrontation as an act of reprisal
instead of war and to show due mercy to the vanquished after they had “confessed.”
Instead of being taken prisoner, the British soldiers would be allowed to retreat
with the full honors of war, “our drums beating and our colors ﬂying,” as Washington phrased it.38 Nevertheless, the next morning one hundred Indian allies of
the French ransacked the British baggage, completing their humiliation. On the
road back to Wills Creek, the Indians taunted and harassed Washington’s men. The
Virginia Regiment began to crumble from wholesale desertions, and the hapless
Washington felt powerless to stop it.
In the riﬂed baggage, the French stumbled upon the diary that Washington
had kept, and it was duly passed along to Governor Duquesne, who devoured its
contents. “There is nothing more unworthy and lower and even blacker than the
sentiments and the way of thinking of this Washington,” Duquesne gloated after

Bloodbath r! 49

perusing the diary.39 To Washington’s mortiﬁcation, it was published in Paris two
years later to a jeering public. The French had a ﬁeld day with the articles of capitulation, brandishing them as proof that Washington had murdered Jumonville,
a man on a peaceful mission. In this manner, they cast the British as the ﬁrst belligerents in the French and Indian War. The sudden celebrity that Washington had
attained in Virginia turned to instant notoriety abroad. One English writer, in high
dudgeon, lambasted the articles of surrender as “the most infamous a British subject ever put his hand to.”40
The Fort Necessity debacle pointed up Washington’s inexperience. Historians
have rightly faulted him for advancing when he should have retreated; for ﬁghting without awaiting sufﬁcient reinforcements; for picking an indefensible spot;
for the slapdash construction of the fort; for alienating his Indian allies; and for
shocking hubris in thinking that he could defeat an imposing French force. Yet
the major blame must lie with Governor Dinwiddie and the Virginia legislators,
who had failed to fund the campaign properly and sent an insufﬁcient force. Some
Washington virtues stood out amid the temporary wreckage of his reputation.
With unﬂagging resolution, he had kept his composure in battle, even when surrounded by piles of corpses. He had a professional toughness and never seemed
to gag at bloodshed; a born soldier, he was curiously at home with bullets whizzing about him. Even in the wilderness, there was no doubt that he would faithfully execute orders. He was always tenacious and persevering and never settled for
halfway measures. Utterly fearless, he faced down dangers and seemed undeterred
by obstacles. Washington knew he had shown personal courage, contending that
he had “stood the heat and brunt of the day and escaped untouched in time of
extreme danger.”41
It’s also worth noting that Washington had received an invaluable education
in frontier warfare. European conventional warfare stressed compact masses of
troops, arrayed on open battleﬁelds. In the New World, by contrast, the Indians had
perfected a mobile style of warfare that relied on ambushing, sniping from trees,
and vanishing into the forest. That June Washington noted that “the French all ﬁght
in the Indian method,” and the Fort Necessity defeat demonstrated how lethal this
could be.42 Washington had seen how soldiers could defeat an enemy through speed
and cunning. Two other lessons informed his later experience in the American Revolution. One was the futility of trying to hold posts that could become death traps
for soldiers cooped up inside—a lesson Washington would have to relearn in the
subsequent war. The other lesson, as President Washington repeated it to Indian
ﬁghters in his administration, was the resounding dictum “Beware of surprise!”43
George Washington always demonstrated a capacity to learn from missteps. “Errors once discovered are more than half amended,” he liked to say. “Some men will

50

r! The Frontiersm a n

gain as much experience in the course of three or four years as some will in ten or a
dozen.”44 It was this process of subtle, silent, unrelenting self-criticism that enabled
him to rise above his early defeats.
When Washington rode into Williamsburg two weeks later, his exploits were
the talk of the capital. At ﬁrst he attracted criticism for his defeat and the seemingly scandalous admission that Jumonville had been “assassinated.” To protect his
own reputation, Dinwiddie alleged that Washington had disobeyed his orders not
to engage with the French until “the whole forces were joined in a body.”45 But he
couldn’t denounce Washington without raising serious questions about his own
judgment, and when he reported to London on the ﬁasco, he described it as a “small
engagement, conducted with judgment by the ofﬁcers and great bravery by our
few forces.”46 Dinwiddie also condemned the “monstrous” failure of other colonies
to shore up the Virginia forces—a failure that gave Washington his ﬁrst powerful
proof of the need for continental unity.47
In the coming weeks, condemnation of Washington gradually gave way to widespread acknowledgment that he had confronted terrifying odds at Fort Necessity.
So sharp was the reversal of opinion that in early September the House of Burgesses
paid special tribute to Washington and Mackay “for their late, gallant, and brave
behavior in the defence of their country.”48 Governor Horatio Sharpe of Maryland,
who had excoriated Washington for impulsive behavior, wrote to him and explained that, as the true story of Fort Necessity became known, public opinion had
shifted in his favor, and he concluded with the reassuring words: “Your reputation
again revived.”49 Thus, the ghastly frontier defeat came to be seen as a doomed but
heroic defense rather than a military blunder that might have ruined Washington’s
budding career.
The aftermath of Washington’s ﬁrst military campaign was grievously disappointing to him. The Virginia Regiment, it was decided, would be divided into ten
independent companies, with captain the top grade in each. For Washington, this
would have meant an insulting demotion from his colonel’s rank. Anyone who
thought he would accept such a setback, he wrote indignantly, “must entertain a
very contemptible opinion of my weakness.”50 Quite predictably, he decided to resign from the army in October rather than tolerate such a blow to his standing. But
with his wilderness forays having conﬁrmed his love of a military life, he said his
resignation wasn’t meant “to gratify any desire I had to leave the military line. My
inclinations are strongly bent to arms.”51 If the whirlwind events had been hard on
the tender ego of the ambitious young Washington, the carnage at Fort Necessity
hadn’t shattered his courage or altered his resolution to pursue a military career.
For a young man without enormous inherited wealth, the military remained a sure
path to colonial advancement. Washington must have had a premonition that his

Bloodbath r! 5 1

military retirement was only temporary, for in late October he ordered from London some costly items for a resplendent uniform: a gold shoulder knot, six yards of
gold regimental lace, twenty-four gold embroidered loops, a rich crimson military
sash, four dozen gilt coat buttons, and a hat adorned with gold lace.52 The young
ofﬁcer seemed to know that the world had not heard its last of him.

chapter five

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Shades of Death

Ev e r si nc e t h e de at h of Lawrence Washington, George had known he
had an outside chance of someday becoming lord of Mount Vernon if Lawrence’s
widow, Ann, and daughter, Sarah, predeceased him. Then, in yet another of the improbable transformations that eerily propelled his life ever upward, the occupancy
of Mount Vernon came unexpectedly within his grasp. Six months after Lawrence’s
death, Ann remarried and moved to Westmoreland County, and two years after
that, on December 10, 1754, little Sarah Washington died. A week later Ann rented
Mount Vernon to George Washington along with its eighteen resident slaves—a
tremendous bonanza for the twenty-two-year-old. By the terms of the lease, he
was required every Christmas to ship his sister-in-law ﬁfteen thousand pounds of
tobacco, packed in ﬁfteen hogsheads, placing him under considerable pressure to
manage the estate proﬁtably.
The Mount Vernon house had not yet attained its later magniﬁcence, so visitors
singled out the natural setting for their poetic effusions. “The house is most beautifully situated upon a very high hill on the banks of the Potomac and commands a
noble prospect of water, of cliffs, of woods and plantations,” wrote one clergyman.1
Unlike that of its later and more famous incarnation, the entrance stood on the
river side, attesting to the extensive commercial trafﬁc then churning along the
Potomac down below. In those days, one could also see thousands of wild ducks
gathering on the surface of the water.
As Washington had suspected, his respite from military service proved shortlived. On February 20, 1755, Major General Edward Braddock dropped anchor off
Hampton Roads, soon to be accompanied by two smartly dressed regiments of

Shades of Death r! 53

British redcoats. To this British Army veteran, an ofﬁcer of the Coldstream Guards,
had been assigned the task of ejecting the French from Fort Duquesne and blunting their thrust into the Ohio Valley. Washington rushed off a politic greeting to
the general. After making inquiries, Braddock learned that Washington possessed
an unmatched familiarity with the frontier. Whatever his misgivings about Washington’s conduct at Fort Necessity, Braddock wanted him as an aide-de-camp. On
March 2 Captain Robert Orme, a slim, dashing aide to the general, sent a letter to
Mount Vernon, inviting Washington to join the general’s personal staff. Judging
from the latter’s reply, it seems that his bruised feelings of the previous fall were
quickly assuaged by the general’s ﬂattering attention. “To explain, sir,” he wrote, “I
wish earnestly to attain knowledge of the military profession,” adding that no better
chance could arise “than to serve under a gentleman of General Braddock’s abilities
and experience.”2
Washington hinted that personal problems might hinder acceptance of the post.
In fact, he was overwhelmed by the demands of planting his ﬁrst spring crop at
Mount Vernon and conﬁded that the estate was “in the utmost confusion.”3 Aggravating matters was that he had nobody to whom he could entrust management
of the place. As he contemplated service under Braddock, Washington struggled
with his special bugaboo, the vexed matter of colonial rank. He still dreamed of a
regular army commission, valid for life, but the best Braddock could award him was
the temporary rank of brevet captain. Still balking at this demotion, Washington
agreed to serve as a volunteer aide to Braddock, and the general, in turn, allowed
him to devote time to his private affairs until the army headed west. To brother Jack,
Washington explained that under this arrangement, he could “give his orders to all,
which must be implicitly obeyed,” while he had to obey only Braddock.4 Already
preoccupied with matters of honor and reputation, Washington feared that people
might question his motives and suspect him of being a power-hungry opportunist—a recurring leitmotif of his career. Serving without pay would silence such
potential naysayers. His sole desire, he told John Robinson, speaker of the House of
Burgesses, was to serve his country: “This, I ﬂatter myself, will manifestly appear by
my going [as] a volunteer, without expectation of reward or prospect of attaining
a command.”5 This theme of disinterested service—honored mostly in the breach
when he was young and in the observance when he was older—would be one of the
touchstones of his life.
To manage Mount Vernon in his absence, Washington wanted to recruit Jack,
which sparked a family feud. Perhaps feeling bereft of family help at Ferry Farm,
Mary Ball Washington arrived at Mount Vernon hell-bent upon preventing George
from joining Braddock. George was supposed to meet with Captain Orme in Alexandria when Mary, appearing like the wrath of God, insisted upon settling her son’s

54

r! The Frontiersm a n

future plans on the spot. “The arrival of a good deal of company, among whom is
my mother, alarmed at the report of my intentions to attend your fortunes, prevents me the pleasure of waiting upon you today as I had intended,” George confessed to Orme.6 This must have come as an extraordinary admission: Washington
was canceling a vital military meeting to mollify his overwrought mother. As had
happened when her son meditated going to sea, Mary had no qualms about thwarting his career for her own personal beneﬁt. In the end, Jack Washington oversaw
Mount Vernon, Ferry Farm, and the Bullskin Plantation for the next three years.
In early May, attended by his body servant, a Welshman named John Alton,
George joined Braddock’s army at Frederick, Maryland. At ﬁrst, he didn’t see much
likelihood of a military engagement with the French and was there principally for
career advancement. As he told Jack, he spotted a good chance “of forming an acquaintance which may be serviceable hereafter, if I shall ﬁnd it worthwhile to push
my fortune in the military line.”7 While Washington saw the cards stacked against
him in the British military system, he warmed to the personal respect he received as
a member of General Braddock’s “family,” or personal staff. He found a few other
things to admire in the small, pudgy general with the long, sharp nose: a lack of
pomp and ceremony in dealing with ofﬁcers and physical courage in battle. “He was
brave even to a fault and in regular service would have done honor to his profession,” he was to write.8
At the same time, Braddock provided Washington with an object lesson in mistakes that any general should avoid, teaching him the virtues of patient moderation.
Braddock was hotheaded and blustery, was blunt to the point of rudeness, and
issued orders without ﬁrst seeking proper advice. He also talked down to colonial governors “as if they had been inﬁnitely his inferiors,” said one observer, and
was irate that the colonies failed to deliver two hundred wagons and 2,500 horses
they had pledged.9 Washington listened to Braddock drone on, spouting prejudiced
views with a narrow-minded insistence. Once committed to an opinion, he refused
to back down, “let it be ever so incompatible with reason or common sense,” Washington noted.10
Schooled in European warfare, Braddock found it hard to adapt to the treacherous terrain of wilderness forests. As his army moved west, he wanted to level
every hill and erect a bridge across each brook. Washington tried to impress upon
him the improvisational tactics of the French and Indians, but the haughty general
wouldn’t deign to accept colonial advice. Benjamin Franklin also experienced ﬁrsthand Braddock’s cocksure arrogance. When Franklin urged the general to beware
of Indian ambushes, he retorted, “These savages may be a formidable enemy to
your raw American militia, but upon the king’s regular and disciplined troops, sir,
it is impossible they would make any impression.”11 Braddock was deaf to Washing-

Shades of Death r! 55

ton’s argument that they should travel lightly across the steep mountains and rely
on packhorses. Instead he relied upon cumbersome carriages that traversed mountain trails with difﬁculty, especially when transporting heavy siege guns.
In early May Washington wrote to his mother from the frontier town of Winchester. Probably because she had so hotly opposed his taking the post, he stressed
his pleasure in serving on Braddock’s staff: “I am very happy in the general’s family, being treated with a complaisant freedom which is quite agreeable to me, and
have no reason to doubt the satisfaction I hoped for in making the campaign.”12
Washington ended his formal note with the words, “I am Honored Madam Your
most Dutiful and Obedient Son.”13 Mary Ball Washington had a knack for making
unreasonable requests whenever her son went off on military campaigns, and she
was known to say, “Ah, George had better have stayed at home and cultivated his
farm.”14 The tacit accusation was always that he had deserted her for the military.
She replied to George’s letter by asking him to retain a Dutch servant for her and to
buy her some butter. To this impossible request, George replied curtly that it wasn’t
in his power to get either the servant or the butter, “for we are quite out of that part
of the country where either are to be had, there being few or no inhabitants where
we now lie encamped and butter cannot be had here to supply the wants of the
army.”15
A far more pleasing distraction for Washington was his growing ﬂirtation with
Sally Fairfax, wife of his friend George William Fairfax. At the end of April, en
route to linking up with Braddock’s troops, Washington stopped by his Bullskin
Plantation on the frontier and dashed off a letter to Sally that signaled a startling
change in their relationship. Although he addressed the letter “To Mrs Fairfax—
Dear Madam . . . ,” he was clearly trying to deepen their intimacy, with nary a mention of George William. Washington promised that he would take “the earliest and
every opportunity” of writing to her: “It will be needless to dwell on the pleasures
that a correspondence of this kind would afford me.”16 This was an uncharacteristically bold and reckless move for Washington, who was playing with ﬁre in seeking
a private correspondence with a married woman, and a member of the toplofty
Fairfax clan at that. Washington’s dependence on that family was thrown into relief
a week later when he wore out three horses and had to appeal to Lord Fairfax for
an emergency loan of forty pounds for the forthcoming campaign.17 The request,
among other things, showed just how inappropriate it had been for Washington to
volunteer his services, as if he were an independently wealthy man who could rise
above petty monetary concerns.
When Braddock dispatched Washington to Williamsburg on an urgent mission
to collect four thousand pounds, the latter made a detour to Belvoir to engage in
some extemporaneous wooing. From a follow-up letter he sent to her, we can see

56

r! The Frontiersm a n

that Sally was ﬂirting with Washington, albeit within carefully prescribed limits.
She told him to alert her to his safe arrival back at camp, but she also stipulated that
he should communicate with her through a third party of her acquaintance—a
clear sign that, at this point at least, she feared direct communication. To resort to
this ruse, she must have regarded Washington’s attention as something more than
a mere schoolboy crush. Washington acknowledged her caution: “This I took as a
gentle rebuke and polite manner of forbidding my corresponding with you and
conceive this opinion is not illy founded when I reﬂect that I have hitherto found
it impracticable to engage one moment of your attention.” He ended by saying that
he still hoped Sally would honor him “with a correspondence which you did once
partly promise.”18 The coquettish Sally seemed to be feeding his amorous fantasies
while simultaneously holding him rigidly at arm’s length.
George Washington clearly had a much more active inner life than his reserved
exterior might have suggested. In late May he conﬁded to Jack his interest in obtaining a seat in the House of Burgesses. He said that he probably couldn’t run in
his home district because George William Fairfax might stand as a candidate, so he
banked his hopes instead on Frederick County. His letter to Jack lays out in remarkable detail his canny political style, which served him well for the rest of his life.
He instructed his brother to canvass the opinions of prominent men in the county
“with[ou]t disclosing much of mine; as I know your own good sense can furnish you
with means enough without letting it proceed immediately from me.” If gentlemen
seemed inclined to support him, “you then may declare my intentions and beg their
assistance. If, on the contrary, you ﬁnd them more inclined to favour some other, I
w[oul]d have the affair entirely subside.”19 It is a highly revealing letter. Washington
believed that ambitious men should hide their true selves, retreat into silence, and
not tip people off to their ambition. To sound out people, you had to feign indifference and proceed only when convinced that they were sympathetic and like-minded.
The objective was to learn the maximum about other people’s thoughts while revealing the minimum about your own. Always fearful of failure, Washington wanted to
push ahead only if he was armed with detailed knowledge and enjoyed a high likelihood of success. This cautious, disciplined political style would persist long after the
original insecurity that had prompted it had disappeared.

A s Br a dd o ck a n d his nearly three thousand men straggled toward Fort Cumberland (the former trading post at Wills Creek on the Potomac) in early June, the
bullheaded general began to fathom the wisdom of Washington’s advice to travel
lightly across the mountainous territory. The pace of forward motion was so glacial,
just two miles daily, that it seemed they would never penetrate to the Forks of the

Shades of Death r! 57

Ohio. Braddock had insisted upon bringing along his complete artillery train and
thousands of bushels of grain. Men and horses dropped dead from exertion as they
crossed steep hills, and the frustrated Braddock, moody at the best of times, became
increasingly testy. In this situation, he heeded Washington’s advice and culled a division of eight hundred men to march ahead. With the French hourly strengthening
their defenses at Fort Duquesne, time was now working against the British.
As it turned out, Washington could not pause to savor his inﬂuence, for he was
“seized with violent fevers and pains in my head” in mid-June.20 He proved the latest victim of an epidemic exacting a frightful toll on Braddock’s forces: dysentery.
This infection of the digestive system produces violent diarrhea, and Washington
suffered cruelly from hemorrhoids. At ﬁrst the stoic young aide tried to conceal
the malady, but he soon found it so debilitating that he had to travel lying down
in a covered wagon. On June 23 Braddock ordered him to accompany the slowermoving forces in the rear and gave him a patent medicine, Dr. James’s Powder,
which Washington pronounced “the most excellent medicine in the world.”21 (It
consisted of phosphate of lime and oxide of antimony.) The young aide was so
distraught at being left behind that Braddock solemnly pledged that he would be
brought forward before Fort Duquesne was attacked. As Washington’s condition
worsened, he found it agonizing to lie in the wagon as it jolted along uneven country roads through impenetrable woods dubbed the “Shades of Death.”22 He told his
brother on June 28 that he had barely enough energy to pen the letter and that a
doctor had warned him that, if he persisted, he would risk his life.23 Although the
medicine helped Washington, his illness and frequent bleeding by doctors left him
woefully depleted on the eve of a major battle. Even though he had recuperated
sufﬁciently by July 8 to rejoin Braddock a dozen miles from Fort Duquesne, he was
still so weak that when he mounted his horse the next morning, he had to strap
on cushions to ease his painful hemorrhoids. He would require all the stamina he
could muster for the extraordinary events in the ofﬁng.
Early on the morning of July 9, Braddock’s advance force, which had grown to
some fourteen hundred men, began to ford the Monongahela River in three groups.
(The spot stands near present-day Braddock, Pennsylvania.) Each section was led
by an ofﬁcer who was to reappear in the American Revolution. The ﬁrst party to
cross was spearheaded by Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Gage, the son of a viscount
and an ofﬁcer much admired by young Washington. The second party was led by
Captain Horatio Gates, said to be the illegitimate offspring of a duke’s housekeeper.
The last group to cross in the early afternoon was the ﬁve-hundred-man contingent led by Braddock himself, escorted by the weary Washington. All three groups
crossed the river without the slightest intimation that a party of nine hundred soldiers from Fort Duquesne lay poised to attack on the other side.

58

r! The Frontiersm a n

As at Fort Necessity, the French and their Indian allies practiced a terrifying
form of frontier warfare that unnerved the British. Letting loose a series of shrill,
penetrating war whoops—“the terriﬁc sound will haunt me till the hour of my
dissolution,” a shaken British soldier later said—the Indians swooped down suddenly and opened ﬁre on the startled British.24 Before British grenadiers could ﬁre
a retaliatory round, the enemy had melted nimbly into the woods. For a short interval, it seemed they had vanished. Then it became clear that they had split into
two wings and encircled the British, releasing a hail of bullets from behind trees
and well-protected elevated positions. The impressive miter caps of the grenadiers
made them tall, conspicuous targets. In the rear with Braddock, Washington heard
the ensuing panic, which he still couldn’t see. The vanguard of British troops, he
recollected, “were so disconcerted and confused” by the “unusual hallooing and
whooping of the enemy” that they soon fell “into irretrievable disorder.”25 The British soldiers had never encountered this North American brand of ﬁghting. “If we
saw ﬁve or six [of the enemy] at one time,” said one soldier, “it was a great sight
and they [were] either on their bellies or behind trees or running from one tree to
another almost by the ground.”26 Even as ofﬁcers tried vainly to subdue the hysterical fears of their men, the latter threw down their muskets and ﬂed helter-skelter.
All the while, Indians scalped and plundered the British dead in what became a
veritable charnel house by the river.
As Braddock and Washington rode toward this scene of helpless slaughter,
panic-stricken redcoats streamed back toward them. After Braddock sent thirty
men under Captain Thomas Waggener to climb a hillside and secure a high position, British troops ﬁred at them in the smoky chaos under the mistaken assumption that they were French, while British ofﬁcers ﬁred at them thinking they were
deserters. All thirty men under Captain Waggener were killed by French or British
ﬁre. For Washington, who had warned Braddock repeatedly about the unorthodox
style of wilderness combat, the situation grimly fulﬁlled his worst premonitions.
Braddock had clung to the European doctrine of compact ﬁghting forces, forming
his men into platoons, which made them easy prey for enemy marksmen. Washington now urged Braddock “before it was too late and the confusion became general”
to allow him “to head the provincials and engage the enemy in their own way,”
Washington recalled years later. “But the propriety of it was not seen into until it
was too late for execution.”27 Scholars have noted that Washington probably saw
the superiority of Indian ﬁghting methods much more clearly in retrospect than
he had at the time.
Braddock handed Washington two directives: to send another party up the
exposed hill and to retrieve two lost cannon. With exceptional pluck and coolheadedness, young George Washington was soon riding all over the battleﬁeld.

Shades of Death r! 59

Though he must have been exhausted, he kept going from sheer willpower and
performed magniﬁcently amid the horror. Because of his height, he presented a
gigantic target on horseback, but again he displayed unblinking courage and a
miraculous immunity in battle. When two horses were shot from under him, he
dusted himself off and mounted the horses of dead riders. One account claimed
that he was so spent from his recent illness that he had to be lifted onto his second
charger. By the end, despite four bullets having torn through his hat and uniform,
he managed to emerge unscathed.
One close observer of Washington’s heroism was a young doctor and future
friend, James Craik. Handsome, blue-eyed, and urbane, Dr. Craik had studied medicine in Edinburgh and was the illegitimate son of a wealthy man in western Scotland. He watched Washington’s exceptional performance that day with unstinting
admiration: “I expected every moment to see him fall. His duty and station exposed
him to every danger. Nothing but the superintending care of Providence could have
saved him from the fate of all around him.”28
Even before the battle, Washington had suffered his ﬁll of British condescension from Braddock. Now he was further embittered by his conviction that the
Virginians had fought courageously and died in droves, while British regulars had
ﬂed to save their skins. “The Virginians behaved like men and died like soldiers,” he
insisted to Dinwiddie. By contrast, “the dastardly behavior of the English soldiers
exposed all those who were inclined to do their duty to almost certain death . . .
at length, in despite of every effort to the contrary, [they] broke and run as sheep
before the hounds . . . And when we endeavored to rally them in hopes of regaining our invaluable loss, it was with as much success as if we had attempted to have
stopped the wild bears of the mountains.”29
So many intrepid British ofﬁcers were killed or wounded—nearly two-thirds of
the total—that it led to a complete collapse of the command structure. Among the
wounded were Braddock’s two other aides-de-camp. When Braddock was felled
by a bullet that slashed through his arm and pierced his lung, only Washington
was left to tend him. Braddock had fought with more valor than wisdom, having four horses shot from under him. Washington stretched out the general in a
small cart and shepherded him back across the Monongahela. Henceforth Washington received orders from an intermittently lucid Braddock who lay groaning
on a stretcher. “I was the only person then left to distribute the general’s orders,”
Washington said, explaining that it was difﬁcult to do so because of his own “weak
and feeble condition.”30
One order required Washington to relay a message to a Colonel Dunbar, whose
division lay forty miles in the rear, to come forward with supplies, medication, and
wagons to assist the moaning legions of wounded soldiers. By now Washington had

60

r! The Frontiersm a n

been on horseback for twelve excruciating hours, yet he gathered up the energy
to ride all night and execute Braddock’s command. Thirty years later the horror
of that night—the black woods, the ghastly cacophony of sounds, the unspeakable heaps of corpses—was still engraved on his memory. “The shocking scenes
which presented themselves in this night’s march are not to be described,” he said.
“The dead—the dying—the groans—lamentations—and cries along the road of
the wounded for help . . . were enough to pierce a heart of adamant.”31 At this point,
the fatigue experienced by the sleepless Washington must have been intolerable.
By his reckoning, three hundred soldiers died on the British side, with another
three hundred wounded (the true number likely approached one thousand casualties); at least two-thirds, he thought, had been victims of friendly ﬁre. He fulminated against the British soldiers as “cowardly regulars” who had shot down the
men ahead of them, even if they happened to be comrades, and was outraged that
the British had been routed by an inferior enemy force of nine hundred men.32 “We
have been most scandalously beaten by a triﬂing body of men,” he complained to
brother Jack.33 In comparison, French and Indian casualties—twenty-three dead
and sixteen wounded—were minuscule.
On the night of July 13, a shattered Braddock lay dying two miles from the
Great Meadows, when he said memorably of his shocking defeat, “Who would have
thought it?”34 He praised his ofﬁcers even as he damned his men, saying that “nothing could equal the gallantry and good conduct of the ofﬁcers nor the bad behavior
of the men.”35 Braddock displayed high regard for Washington and recommended
that his body servant, Thomas Bishop, ﬁnd future employment with him. He also
gave the young Virginian a red silk sash and a pair of pistols that the younger man
always treasured. Washington oversaw Braddock’s burial, a task that fell to him by
default as the only ofﬁcer left standing to issue orders. After his men dug a trench in
the road and lowered the blanket-wrapped body, Washington held an impromptu
Anglican service by torchlight. Afraid that Indians might unearth the body and
desecrate it, Washington had his wagons ride repeatedly over the grave to hide
the freshly turned earth and “guard against a savage triumph . . . thus died a man
whose good and bad qualities were intimately blended,” he wrote.36 This stratagem
worked, and the French and Indians never located Braddock’s grave.
One suspects that Washington knew that his fond hope of a Royal Army commission had been buried along with the general. The following year Dinwiddie
speculated that if Braddock had survived, “I believe he would have provided handsomely for [Washington] in the regulars.”37 Nonetheless Washington’s reputation
grew in defeat. As he trotted homeward in late July, clutching his bullet-riddled
hat as a battle souvenir, he knew that his well-publicized bravery had enhanced his
image in the colonies. The governor of North Carolina congratulated the twenty-

Shades of Death r! 61

three-year-old “on your late escape and the immortal honor you have gained on the
banks of [the] Ohio.”38 An admiring correspondent in Philadelphia informed him
that Benjamin Franklin had paid tribute to his heroism and that “everybody seems
willing to venture under your command.”39
Perhaps the most gratifying response came from the rich, adoring family at Belvoir. The young war hero was lionized by William Fairfax, while Sally Fairfax sent
him a sweet bantering note, cautiously cosigned by two friends, that chided him for
not rushing to see her. “After thanking heaven for your safe return, I must accuse
you of great unkindness in refusing us the pleasure of seeing you this night,” she
wrote. “I do assure you nothing but our being satisﬁed that our company would be
disagreeable should prevent us from trying if our legs would not carry us to Mount
Vernon this night. But if you will not come to us, tomorrow morning very early, we
shall be at Mount Vernon.”40 An unabashed affection for Washington emerges from
these Fairfax missives. Much more than merely a young favorite, he had been virtually adopted by the family, which expected great things from him.
In Braddock’s crushing defeat, Washington had established an indelible image
as a fearless young soldier who never ﬂinched from danger and enjoyed a special
intimacy with death. He had dodged so many bullets that he might have suspected
he would escape the ancestral curse of his short-lived family. To Jack, Washington speculated that he was still alive “by the miraculous care of Providence that
protected me beyond all human expectation. I had 4 bullets through my coat and
two horses shot under and yet escaped unhurt.”41 In a stupendous stroke of prophecy, a Presbyterian minister, Samuel Davies, predicted that the “heroic youth Col.
Washington” was being groomed by God for higher things. “I cannot but hope
Providence has hitherto preserved [him] in so signal a manner for some important
service to his country.”42
Washington’s derring-do even fostered a lasting mystique among the Indians. A
folk belief existed among some North American tribes that certain warriors enjoyed
supernatural protection from death in battle, and this mythic stature was projected
onto Washington. Fifteen years later he encountered an Indian chief who distinctly
recalled seeing him at the battle by the Monongahela and told how he had ordered
his warriors, without success, to ﬁre directly at him. The chief had concluded that
some great spirit would guide him to momentous things in the future.
Perhaps the most enduring inﬂuence of Braddock’s defeat was the altered colonial view of British power, formerly deemed to be invincible. “This whole transaction gave us the ﬁrst suspicion that our exalted ideas of the prowess of British regular
troops had not been well founded,” said Benjamin Franklin.43 Although Braddock
had led the biggest British force ever to undertake an operation in the colonies, it
had ended in a resounding failure. Washington had witnessed something hitherto

62

r! The Frontiersm a n

unthinkable for loyal colonials: the British Empire could be defeated on a distant
continent. For all of Braddock’s derision of colonial troops, they had shown much
more courage than the vaunted British regulars. It had been trained British soldiers
who all too often had killed their brethren with misplaced ﬁre. Washington was
still imbued with the professional standards of the British military, but he had been
exposed to the forest warfare perfected by their adversaries and had learned lasting
lessons. One report published after the battle told of Washington urging Braddock
to split up his troops while the general “obstinately persisted in the form of a ﬁeld
battle, his men standing shoulder to shoulder.”44 Braddock’s defeat spawned a new
awareness of the futility of European military practices on American soil, which
later emboldened Washington and other colonists to believe that a ramshackle
army of rough frontiersmen could defeat the world’s foremost military machine.

chapter six

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

The Soul of an Army

Th e dis gr ac e f u l de f e at of Edward Braddock exposed the vulnerability of
western Virginia to attack. Every time the Indians staged a raid in the Shenandoah
Valley, terriﬁed British settlers streamed back across the Blue Ridge Mountains to
the safety of older settlements. By mid-August 1755, the assembly in Williamsburg
voted forty thousand pounds to protect the colony from such threats, and Washington’s name was bandied about as the favored candidate to command a newly reconstituted Virginia Regiment. Evidently the mere prospect that Washington might
be appointed elicited stiff resistance from Mary Washington, for George sent her
a terse note, justifying his impending decision and holding his blazing temper in
check, if barely. After his customary “Honored Madam,” he went on: “If it is in my
power to avoid going to the Ohio again, I shall. But [if] the command is pressed
upon me by the general voice of the country and offered upon such terms as can’t
be objected against, it would reﬂect dishonour upon me to refuse it and that, I am
sure, must, or ought, to give you greater cause of uneasiness than my going in an
honourable com[man]d.”1 One notes the pointed rebuke tucked into that word
“ought.” Everyone in the colony seemed to cheer on George Washington as a bona
ﬁde hero except his own mother.
The same day Washington wrote to his mother—one suspects he already knew
of his appointment—Governor Dinwiddie offered to make Washington, twentythree, not only the colonel in charge of the Virginia Regiment but the supreme
commander of all military forces in Virginia. In a measure of Washington’s growing
self-conﬁdence, he bargained aggressively for a better deal, including the power to
name ﬁeld ofﬁcers and recruit soldiers, plus an expense account of one hundred

64

r! The Frontiersm a n

pounds yearly. As would be apparent later on, Washington was always reluctant to
assume responsibility without the requisite powers to acquit himself honorably. As
he put it, “No person who regards his character will undertake a command without
the means of preserving it, since his conduct is culpable for all misfortunes and
never right but when successful.”2 His hesitation at this moment of meteoric ascent
also banished any appearance of an unseemly rush to power. Developing a mature
instinct for power, Washington began to appreciate the value of difﬁdence, cultivating the astute politician’s capacity to be the master of events while seeming to be
their humble servant. Two weeks later, on August 31, 1755, a decent interval having
elapsed, George Washington agreed to become commander in chief of all forces
raised in Virginia. He was to remain extremely proud that the Virginia Regiment
was the ﬁrst to see service during the French and Indian War, a conﬂict not yet ofﬁcially declared at the time of Braddock’s defeat.
Determined to look every inch the new commander, Washington opened an
account with a London agent to purchase clothing and other luxury goods. He
selected a merchant named Richard Washington, mistakenly believing they were
related, and told him, “I should be glad to cultivate the most intimate correspondence with you.”3 To defray his expenses, he sent ahead three hogsheads of tobacco.
Washington was launching a new role as a country squire, seeking a social standing
commensurate with his newfound military renown. He also took his ﬁrst step to
buy on credit, providing a bill of exchange to cover shortfalls in his account.
Among his ﬁrst purchases, Washington ordered rufﬂes, silk stockings, and gold
and scarlet sword knots to complete his elegant costume as commander. He had
already sketched out uniforms for his ofﬁcers, telling them in vivid terms what they
should don: blue coats with scarlet cuffs and facings, scarlet waistcoats trimmed
with silver lace, and “every one to provide himself with a silver-laced hat of a fashionable size.”4 From London, Washington also ordered two handsome livery suits,
emblazoned with his coat of arms, for his servants. In several details, including
the scarlet waistcoats and silver-laced hats, the livery suits matched the ofﬁcers’
uniforms, making it clear that Washington planned to ride about in high style, accompanied by fancily dressed servants and soldiers.
As chief of the Virginia Regiment, Washington confronted an awesome task,
having to police a frontier 350 miles long against “the cruel incursions of a crafty,
savage enemy,” as he put it.5 He had to supervise ﬁfty ofﬁcers and a few hundred
men and groused about “indolent” ofﬁcers and “insolent” soldiers.6 As regimental commander, Washington received a comprehensive education in military
skills, running the gamut from building barracks to arbitrating pay disputes. As
he supervised every aspect of his operation, his phenomenal capacity for detail
became apparent. A young man with a mission, Washington wanted to prove that

The Soul of an Army r! 65

he could transform colonial recruits into buffed and polished professionals on
a par with anything England could muster. As always, he worked assiduously at
self-improvement, perusing Humphrey Bland’s A Treatise of Military Discipline, a
manual popular in the British Army.
As he set up camp at Fort Dinwiddie in Winchester, Virginia, Washington ran
into such a chaotic situation that he threatened to resign less than two months after
taking the post. He told Dinwiddie that he couldn’t commandeer a single horse
in the area without threatening the inhabitants. The House of Burgesses had exempted property owners from the draft, leaving poor men to bear the common
burden. Washington had a dreadful time raising troops in this rough, brawling area,
where settlers resented coercive recruiting methods. In one letter, he gave a sharp
tongue-lashing to a recruiting ofﬁcer who had resorted to terror to collar men,
chiding him for “forcibly taking, conﬁning and torturing those who would not
voluntarily enlist” and noting that this “not only cast a slur upon your own character, but reﬂect[ed] dishonour upon mine.”7 Despite such warnings, Washington
inspired considerable fear in the region, although he vowed to Dinwiddie that he
would persevere until the inhabitants “execute what they threaten, i.e. ‘to blow out
my brains.’ ”8 When one captain informed Washington that, contrary to regimental rules, his company included two blacks and two mulattoes, the short-handed
Washington allowed them to remain in an auxiliary capacity.
Once herded into service, the men deserted in droves, taking clothing and arms
with them. Washington responded by clapping deserters into chains, throwing
them into a “dark room,” and ﬂogging them vigorously. The only way to avert costly
desertions, Washington avowed, was to “terrify the soldiers from such practices.”9
In October 1755 he and Dinwiddie lobbied the Virginia assembly for a bill to permit the death sentence for mutiny, desertion, and willful disobedience. Although
Washington wasn’t a martinet, neither was he squeamish about meting out harsh
punishment. His policy was to be tough but scrupulously fair, and his inﬂexible
sense of justice didn’t shrink from applying lashes to deserters. In 1756 he decreed
the death penalty for one Henry Campbell, whom he labeled “a most atrocious villain” who “richly merits an ignominious death.”10 Campbell had not only deserted
but encouraged seven others to do so. Washington made a point of hanging people
in public to deter others. His frontier experience only darkened his view of human
nature, and he saw people as motivated more by force than by kindness. “Lenity,
so far from producing its desired effects, rather emboldens them in these villainous undertakings,” he told Dinwiddie.11 Washington’s methods, seemingly cruel to
modern eyes, were standard practice in the British Army of his day.
Washington remained a stickler for discipline, which he identiﬁed as “the soul
of an army,” and he encouraged military discipline even in private matters.12 Scorn-

66

r! The Frontiersm a n

ful of Virginia’s licentious culture of gambling, whoring, and drinking, which was
especially disruptive in an army, he set down strict moral standards for his men,
and his use of corporal punishment gradually expanded. Unwilling to tolerate
swearing, he warned that offenders would receive twenty-ﬁve lashes for uttering an
oath, with more severe punishment reserved for second offenses. He was so upset
by men “incessantly drunk and unﬁt for service” that he ordered ﬁfty lashes for
any man caught drinking in Winchester gin shops.13 As an antidote to such behavior, Washington lobbied for the appointment of a regimental chaplain. “Common
decency, sir, in a camp calls for the services of a divine,” Washington informed the
Governor’s Council, stating that such an appointment “ought not to be dispensed
with, although the world should be so uncharitable as to think us void of religion
and incapable of good instructions.”14
With a sovereign faith in leadership by example, Washington believed that courage
and cowardice originated from the top of an army. As he wrote during the American
Revolution: “This is the true secret . . . that wherever a regiment is well ofﬁcered, the
men have behaved well—when otherwise, ill—the [misconduct] or cowardly behavior always originating with the ofﬁcers, who have set the example.”15 Like his mother,
Washington tended to stint on praise, reﬂecting his stoic belief that ofﬁcers didn’t
need encouragement since they were simply doing their duty. When he offered praise,
he was careful to direct it not at individuals, but at the regiment as a whole.
In his correspondence at the time, Washington comes across as a young man
who couldn’t step back, laugh at himself, or leaven responsibility with humor. Nevertheless he proved popular among his ofﬁcers, who valued his courage, dignity, and
even-handed treatment. “Our colonel is an example of fortitude in either danger or
hardships and by his easy, polite behavior has gained not only the regard but affection of both ofﬁcers and soldiers,” wrote one ofﬁcer.16 At the same time Washington’s
code of leadership stipulated that, for maximum effect, the commander should be
cordial but not too familiar, producing respect instead of affection. As one writer later
summed up this strategy: “Power required distance, he seems to have reasoned, familiarity and intimacy eroded it.”17 This view of leadership unfortunately had a way of
distancing Washington from his subordinates and preventing relaxed camaraderie.
From a strategic standpoint, Washington was frustrated by the wartime role
that the assembly had assigned to his regiment. While he advocated an offensive
posture to end frontier raids by marching on Fort Duquesne, the assembly opted
for a purely defensive stance, creating a string of frontier outposts. This, Washington noted cynically, was done “more with a view to quiet the fears of the inhabitants
than from any expectation of giving security on so extensive a line to the settlements.”18 It thrust him into the untenable position of combating raids that never
ended. In the meantime, the British shifted the major focus of the war to Canada

The Soul of an Army r! 6 7

and points north, leaving the Ohio Valley as a sideshow. This experience of being
set up for failure, as he saw it, haunted Washington for the rest of his life.
While Washington was suffering from notoriety caused by tough recruiting
methods, he stood for election to the House of Burgesses in Frederick County,
which included Winchester. He was qualiﬁed to run there because his Bullskin
Plantation lay in the region. Later in his career, the word defeat never appeared in
the Washington lexicon, but he took a sound drubbing in this ﬁrst election. His
friends entered his name at the last minute, which may account for his poor showing. Already interested in running for ofﬁce, Washington may not have known that
his friends had placed him in contention. At the time it was thought unseemly for
candidates to engage in electioneering, so they relied on proxies, professing all the
while a saintly indifference to power. Luckily for Washington, the age frowned upon
direct, backslapping politics, which would never have suited his reticent style.
At the time there were no secret ballots. While an open voting system was thought
to prevent corruption, it enhanced the power of landowners who could personally
monitor how their tenants voted. Voters stepped forward to announce their votes,
which were then recorded by clerks seated at a table. At the election in Winchester
on December 10, 1755, Washington was crushed by his two opponents; Hugh West received 271 votes, Thomas Swearingen 270, and Washington a mere 40. His friend and
fellow ofﬁcer Adam Stephen tried to soften the blow by blaming his eleventh-hour
entry into the race. “I think your poll was not despicable, as the people were a stranger
[to] your purpose until the election began,” he wrote.19 For future use, Washington
pocketed a sheet with the voting tally, as if resolved to fare better next time.
As we recall, Washington had refrained from standing for election in Fairfax
County because it would have pitted him against George William Fairfax, Sally’s
husband. According to legend, Washington attended the Fairfax County election
and ended up in a heated exchange about George William with one William Payne,
who favored an opposing candidate. Their confrontation grew so angry that Payne
struck Washington with a stick, knocking him to the ground. When Washington
got to his feet, he had to be restrained from assaulting Payne. In the prevalent honor
culture of the day, Washington might have been expected to issue an invitation to a
duel. Instead, he sent Payne an apology forthwith. Whether true or apocryphal, the
story squares with the fact that Washington never fought a duel and usually tried to
harmonize differences after even the most withering arguments.

From h is l of t y pe rc h atop the Virginia Regiment, Washington kept bucking
for a royal commission. His frustration crested in late 1755, when he clashed with
a man named John Dagworthy at Fort Cumberland on the Maryland frontier. As

68

r! The Frontiersm a n

a colonial captain from Maryland, Dagworthy held a rank that seemed inferior to
Washington’s, but he claimed superior authority based on an old royal commission.
Writing to Dinwiddie, Washington threatened to resign if he had to truckle to the
hated Dagworthy. Dinwiddie appealed to Governor William Shirley of Massachusetts, a barrister who had succeeded Braddock as supreme commander of British
forces in North America. Aiming at deeper institutional change, Washington also
wanted Shirley to absorb his regiment into the regular British Army, removing the
two-tiered system that had bedeviled him. Governor Dinwiddie granted him permission to travel to Boston so that he could confront Shirley in person. When he
set off for Boston in February 1756, Washington was accompanied by two aides and
two slaves who sported the ﬁne livery custom-made in London. In Philadelphia
the young colonel, very dashing in his blue regimentals, enjoyed his ﬁrst taste of
a northern city and embarked on a shopping spree for clothing, hats, jewelry, and
saddles. He was pleased by the clean, well-ordered town, which a friend was to
tout to him as the peaceful home “of many nations and religions,” while expressing
admiration for “that great man Mr. Penn.”20 Christopher Gist had already notiﬁed
him that his fame had spread to the city. “Your name is more talked of in Philadelphia than that of any other person in the army,” he had written the previous fall.21
In New York, Washington socialized with his friend Beverley Robinson, son of
the powerful speaker of the Virginia House of Burgesses, and he may have entered
into a romantic dalliance with Robinson’s sister-in-law, Mary “Polly” Philipse. The
twenty-six-year-old Polly would have been a prime catch for an upwardly mobile
young man: she was slim, dark-haired, beautiful, and heiress to a colossal fortune.
Unsubstantiated legend claims that Washington proposed marriage; if so, he lost
out to Major Roger Morris, son of an English architect, who had fought with Washington at Braddock’s defeat.
By the time he moved on to Boston, Washington’s triumphal journey attracted
considerable interest. When he arrived, the Boston Gazette saluted him as “the
Hon. Colonel Washington, a gentleman who has deservedly a high reputation of
military skill, integrity, and valor, though success has not always attended his undertakings.”22 Aside from Washington’s military renown, Governor Shirley may
have had sentimental reasons for seeing him: his son had also acted as an aide to
Braddock and was killed during the campaign. In presenting his grievances to the
governor on March 5, 1756, Washington met with only mixed success. Although
Shirley conﬁrmed that he possessed superior rank to Dagworthy, he wouldn’t
budge on other matters and rebuffed a petition signed by Washington’s ofﬁcers
for inclusion in the royal establishment. He also disappointed his young visitor by
appointing Governor Sharpe of Maryland to lead the next campaign against Fort
Duquesne—a military honor about which young George Washington already har-

The Soul of an Army r! 6 9

bored a rich fund of fantasies. On his way home, the disappointed colonel stopped
to confer with Sharpe, an interview that left him so dispirited that he “fully resolved to resign my commission.”23 Upon arriving in Williamsburg, he was somewhat assuaged by news that the assembly had decided to expand Virginia’s forces
to ﬁfteen hundred men.
In these dealings with powerful older men, Washington hadn’t yet developed
the tact that would distinguish him in later life, and given his age, he seemed to
bristle unduly at being assigned a subordinate position. His emotions were still
raw, and he exhibited a naked, sometimes clumsy ambition that he later learned to
cloak or conquer. This young careerist brooded interminably over the discrimination leveled against colonial ofﬁcers and betrayed a heightened sense of personal
injustice—feelings that would assume a more impressive and impersonal ideological form during the American Revolution. Nevertheless there was a gravitas about
the young Washington, a seriousness of purpose and a ﬁerce determination to succeed, that made him stand out in any crowd.

A s s o on a s Wa sh i ngt on returned to Winchester in early April, he confronted
a fresh crisis. Indians had sacked so many settlements and slain so many inhabitants
that the dazed surviving families looked to Washington as their savior. At ﬁrst he
could barely scrape up a few dozen men to mount a spirited defense and despaired
of waging an equal battle with the Indians, telling Governor Dinwiddie that “the
cunning and craft” of the Indians “are not to be equalled . . . They prowl about like
wolves and, like them, do their mischief by stealth.” He despaired of ﬁghting them
upon equal terms.24 Feeling embattled, Washington issued a plea for intercolonial
union that foreshadowed his later stress on national unity. “Nothing I more sincerely wish than a union to the colonies in this time of eminent danger,” he told
Pennsylvania governor Robert Hunter Morris.25
Even as a young man, the complex Washington seldom had a single reason for
his actions. His pursuit of self-interest and selﬂess dedication to public service were
often intermingled, sometimes making it hard to disentangle his true motives. Perhaps for this reason, he could always discern both the base and the noble sides of
human nature. For Washington, the French and Indian War presented few elevating
ideas beyond the moral superiority of the British side. Nevertheless, his indignation about the savagery he purported to see practiced by his French and Indian
foes seems heartfelt. He began to view himself as the self-styled champion of the
backwoods people and was moved by their piteous plight. In a remarkable letter to
Robert Dinwiddie on April 22, 1756, he made an impassioned statement about the
murder of frontier families and his desire to alleviate their suffering.

70

r! The Frontiersm a n
I am too little acquainted, sir, with pathetic language to attempt a description of the
people’s distresses, though I have a generous soul, sensible of wrongs and swelling
for redress. But what can I do? If bleeding, dying! would glut their insatiate revenge,
I would be a willing offering to savage fury and die by inches to save a people! I see
their situation, know their danger, and participate [in] their sufferings without having it in my power to give them further relief than uncertain promises . . . The supplicating tears of the women and moving petitions from the men melt me into such
deadly sorrow that I solemnly declare . . . I could offer myself a willing sacriﬁce to the
butchering enemy, provided that would contribute to the people’s ease.26

Here one can sense a ﬂood of deep feeling welling up beneath the surface of Washington’s tightly buttoned personality. A spark of idealism began to ﬂicker intermittently through his sulking about his personal status—a spark that would someday
ﬂare into a bright ﬂame.
Faced with Indian raids that depopulated whole settlements, Dinwiddie issued
orders calling up the militia in western counties, and Washington suddenly found
himself at the head of a thousand temporary recruits who bridled at their treatment by highborn ofﬁcers. Reﬂecting this resentment, the Virginia Gazette blasted
Washington’s ofﬁcers as “rank novices, rakes, spendthrifts, and bankrupts” who
“browbeat and discouraged” the militia and gave them “an example of all manner of debauchery, vice, and idleness.”27 Livid over this bad publicity, Washington
informed Dinwiddie of numerous warnings he had issued about these vices and
promised to “act with a little more rigor than has hitherto been practiced, since I
ﬁnd it so absolutely necessary.”28 Washington presented the strange spectacle of a
young man chastising dissolute behavior, and Dinwiddie stood solidly behind him.
“He is a person much beloved here and has gone through many hardships in the
service and I really think he has great merit.”29
Throughout the spring, Washington squawked about the ﬁckle militia, who
disappeared whenever an Indian threat materialized. Apparently concerned by the
moods of his temperamental protégé, Colonel William Fairfax preached a stoic
calm in the face of adversity and wrote two letters invoking the military heroes of
antiquity. “Your good health and fortune is the toast of every table,” he reassured
Washington. “Among the Romans such a general acclamation and public regard
shown to any of their chieftains was always esteemed a high honor and gratefully
accepted.” Holding up Caesar and Alexander the Great as models to emulate, Fairfax said that Washington shouldn’t be disturbed by unreliable militia but should
bear such hardships “with equal magnanimity [as] those heroes remarkably did.”30
·

·

·

The Soul of an Army r! 7 1

I n m i d - August, Colonel Washington staged a small pageant in Winchester to
mark the ofﬁcial start of the French and Indian War, announced in London three
months earlier. Escorted by town worthies, he marched three companies to the parade ground and read aloud the declaration of war, urging his men to show “willing
obedience to the best of kings and by a strict attachment to his royal commands
[to] demonstrate the love and loyalty we bear to his sacred person.”31 With that, numerous toasts were drunk and muskets boomed. Nevertheless the absolute power
of distant bureaucrats in London preyed on Washington’s mind. Three weeks earlier he had conveyed greetings to John Campbell, Earl of Loudoun, the new commander of His Majesty’s forces in North America. No longer a military novice,
Washington touted himself as a war veteran and seasoned his welcome with selfpromotion: “We humbly represent to your Lordship that we were the ﬁrst troops in
action on the continent on [the] occasion of the present broils and that by several
engagements and continual skirmishes with the enemy, we have to our cost acquired a knowledge of them and of their crafty and cruel practices.”32
Eager to please his new commander, Washington struggled to make his new
recruits presentable. He had long been troubled by an inability to clothe them, but
in March he procured for each man “a suit of thin sleazy cloth without lining” and
some waistcoats of “sorry ﬂannel.”33 No sooner had he accomplished this than he
found men selling the miserable clothing he had obtained. Indignant, he threatened them with ﬁve hundred lashes. Where his men had once deserted two or three
at a time, sixteen absconded into the woods in August, and the shortage of men
grew more perilous. When a portion of the Augusta County militia was summoned
to duty that October, fewer than a tenth even bothered to show up. From these
early experiences, Washington came to believe devoutly in the need for rigorously
trained, professional armies rather than hastily summoned, short-term militia.
All summer and fall Washington was exasperated by military arrangements on
the western frontier. He objected in strenuous terms to Lord Loudoun’s decision in
early December to station Virginia troops at Fort Cumberland in Maryland, when
it made more sense to keep them at Winchester, Virginia. Washington’s tenacity
on this issue led to a clash with Dinwiddie, who sided with Loudoun. Until this
point Washington had prudently tended his relationship with the royal governor
and was exemplary in bowing to civilian control. Now, in a terribly impolitic move,
he bypassed Dinwiddie to lobby House of Burgesses speaker John Robinson, violating a cardinal rule of Virginia politics that the governor had ﬁnal authority in
such matters. The decision also smacked of disloyalty to someone who had consistently boosted Washington’s career. The young man poured out his frustrations to
Robinson, saying his advice to Dinwiddie had been “disregarded as idle and frivolous . . . My orders [from Dinwiddie] are dark, doubtful and uncertain: today ap-

72

r! The Frontiersm a n

proved, tomorrow condemned.”34 The same day Washington aggravated matters by
telling Dinwiddie that Loudoun had “imbibed prejudices so unfavourable to my
character” because he had not been “thoroughly informed.”35 Since Dinwiddie had
been Loudoun’s primary source of information, he would have interpreted this as a
direct attack on his own conduct.
On January 10, 1757, throwing caution to the wind, Washington sent Lord Loudoun a letter so lengthy that it runs to a dozen printed pages in his collected papers.
It provides a graphic picture of the twenty-four-year-old Washington’s ambivalence
about the British class system. On the one hand, he ﬂattered Loudoun unctuously
even as he denied doing so. “Although I have not the honour to be known to Your
Lordship, yet Your Lordship’s name was familiar to my ear on account of the important services performed to His Majesty in other parts of the world. Don’t think
My Lord I am going to ﬂatter. I have exalted sentiments of Your Lordship’s character and revere your rank . . . my nature is honest and free from guile.”36
Washington then brashly declared his impatience with “chimney corner politicians” in Williamsburg and cited his failure to win a well-merited promotion in the
British Army.37 “In regard to myself, I must beg leave to say [that,] had His Excellency General Braddock survived his unfortunate defeat, I should have met with
preferment equal to my wishes. I had his promise to that purpose.”38 Washington
also mentioned that, after their brave stand at Fort Necessity, his men had expected
inclusion in the regular British Army. In sending this letter, Washington knew that
he had overstepped political boundaries and confessed in closing, “When I look
over the preceding pages and ﬁnd how far I have exceeded my ﬁrst intention, I
blush with shame to think of my freedom.”39
Driven by thwarted ambition, the still-gauche Washington resolved to advise
Loudoun in person and prevailed upon Dinwiddie to allow him to go to Philadelphia to consult with him. The governors of ﬁve colonies ﬂocked there to see him too,
but Lord Loudoun, a haughty Scot with a reputation as a martinet, was in no special
hurry to see anyone, forcing Washington to cool his heels for six weeks. From an aide
to Loudoun, Washington learned that the general had admired his long letter, but
when he met with him, the commander seemed deaf to his opinions. It was clear that
Virginia had been assigned a secondary importance in imperial war strategy and
that any assault on Fort Duquesne had been postponed. The only victory that Washington could claim was Loudoun’s decision that Maryland would take responsibility
for Fort Cumberland, freeing the Virginia Regiment to man Virginia forts.
Before leaving Philadelphia, Washington wrote to Dinwiddie and vented his
bitter outrage at the inferior status foisted upon the Virginia Regiment: “We can’t
conceive that being Americans should deprive us of the beneﬁts of British subjects,
nor lessen our claim to preferment. And we are very certain that no body of regular

The Soul of an Army r! 7 3

troops ever before served 3 bloody campaigns without attracting royal notice. As
to those idle arguments which are often times used—namely, ‘You are defending
your own properties’—I look upon [them] to be whimsical and absurd. We are
defending the King’s Dominions.”40 This statement represented a huge intellectual
leap: Washington was suddenly asserting that the imperial system existed to serve
the king, not his overseas subjects. The equality of an Englishman in London and
one in Williamsburg was purely illusory. In time, the Crown would pay dearly for
Washington’s disenchantment with the fairness of the British military.
When the bruised young colonel returned to Winchester—the “cold and barren frontiers,” as he called them—he applauded one development: several hundred
Catawba and Cherokee Indians had enlisted on the British side for the ﬁrst time
since the Fort Necessity debacle, an alliance that promptly embroiled Washington
in a ghoulish commerce.41 The Virginia assembly had agreed to pay the Indians ten
pounds for every enemy scalp they brought into camp. When a party of Cherokees
arrived bearing four scalps and two prisoners, Washington hadn’t yet received the
necessary gifts to reward them. “They are much dissatisﬁed that the presents are
not here,” he told Dinwiddie, labeling these new Indian allies “the most insolent,
most avaricious, and most dissatisﬁed wretches I have ever had to deal with.”42 The
Indians were about to terminate the alliance, when the gifts belatedly arrived.
During this humiliating period, Washington often felt helpless in dealing with
his men. Despite being threatened with punishment, more than a quarter of new
recruits deserted, and Washington’s personal grievances fueled his rage at them.
When a thousand lashes didn’t stop the desertions, he upped the penalty to a draconian ﬁfteen hundred lashes. The historian Fred Anderson has estimated that Washington administered an average of six hundred lashes in each ﬂogging, putting him
on a par with his most severe British counterparts.43 With icy determination, he
even constructed a gibbet tall enough to instill terror in anybody contemplating
desertion. “I have a gallows near 40 feet high erected (which has terriﬁed the rest
exceedingly) and I am determined . . . to hang two or three on it as an example to
others,” he informed one ofﬁcer.44
That summer Washington decided to hang fourteen men for desertion. Fortunately, even as a young man he never acted heedlessly, and he gave way to second
thoughts. Knowing his own nature, he let his temper cool. In the end, he pardoned
twelve of the men—they had been kept “in a dark room, closely ironed”—and executed only two repeat offenders. “Your honor will, I hope, excuse my hanging instead
of shooting them,” Washington told Dinwiddie. “It conveyed much terror to others
and it was for example[’s] sake we did it.”45 It should be noted that, while Washington
didn’t balk at naked terror, he had already warned that recidivists would be hanged.
Throughout the summer Washington grew quarrelsome in correspondence with

74

r! The Frontiersm a n

Dinwiddie, believing that his former patron was now hostile to him and opposed the
regular commission he pursued. Indeed, Dinwiddie’s letters were often carping and
demeaning in tone. The young ofﬁcer felt at the mercy of an incompetent governor,
who for his part felt powerless in dealing with Lord Loudoun and arbitrary instructions from London. The experience gave Washington new insight into the problem
of being ruled by people overseas who were ignorant of local conditions.
He ventilated his dismay to his admirer, Speaker Robinson: “I am convinced it
would give pleasure to the governor to hear that I was involved in trouble, however
undeservedly.”46 Dinwiddie must have heard that Washington was talking behind
his back, because he scolded him that September. “My conduct to yo[u] from the
beginning was always friendly, but you know I had g[rea]t reason to suspect yo[u] of
ingratitude, which, I’m convinced, your own conscience and reﬂection must allow
I had reason to be angry. But this I endeavor to forget.”47 The reason that Dinwiddie endeavored to forget was that he was now ailing and had decided to return to
England. Washington responded to his accusation with hot-tempered indignation:
“I do not know that I ever gave your Honor cause to suspect me of ingratitude, a
crime I detest, and would most carefully avoid.”48 In the younger man’s view, he was
merely guilty of speaking openly about policy errors imposed by the governor. The
correspondence with Dinwiddie degenerated into petty bickering. When Washington asked for a leave of absence to visit Williamsburg, Dinwiddie scoffed that he
had already been indulged with too many leaves. Washington returned a stinging
retort: “It was not to enjoy a party of pleasure I wanted [a] leave of absence.”49
Washington lost his other principal backer that September when Colonel Fairfax
died and he made the melancholy journey to Belvoir to attend the funeral.

D ou bt l e s s dist u r bi ng h i m that fall was a recurrence of the “bloody ﬂux,”
or dysentery, which had started around midsummer. The symptoms stole upon
Washington so gradually that he functioned more or less normally at ﬁrst. With
his staunch commitment to work, he kept Governor Dinwiddie in the dark about
his condition. Then in early November he felt the full brunt of the illness. As fellow
ofﬁcer Captain Robert Stewart described it, Washington was “seized with stitches
and violent pleuritic pains . . . his strength and vigour diminished so fast that in a
few days he was hardly able to walk.”50 After Dr. Craik examined him, he warned
Washington that his life was endangered and chided him for not seeking treatment sooner, saying that “your disorder hath been of long standing and hath corrupted the whole mass of blood. It will require some time to remove the cause.”51
Craik bled Washington several times, which only weakened him further. The doctor prescribed rest, fresh air, and water as offering Washington the best chance for

The Soul of an Army r! 75

recovery. His iron constitution having broken down, he relinquished command to
Captain Stewart and set out for home.
Once at Mount Vernon in mid-November, he consulted Dr. Charles Green of
Alexandria, who forbade him to eat meats and prescribed a diet of jellies and other
soft foods, lubricated with tea or sweet wine. With a lifelong bias against medication, Washington preferred to let illness take its course. At ﬁrst his sister (or possibly
sister-in-law) came to nurse him, but when she left and he looked attractively helpless, he attempted to lure Sally Fairfax to his bedside. In a note, he asked if he could
borrow a book of recipes to prepare jellies, noting that “my sister is from home and
I have no person that has been used to making these kind of things and no directions.”52 It seems probable that Sally rose to the bait.
Every time Washington seemed to gain ground, the disease recurred with a vengeance. With some symptoms resembling tuberculosis, he grew terriﬁed that he
would follow in brother Lawrence’s footsteps. In February he even had to deny
reports of his death circulating in Williamsburg. “I have heard of letters from the
dead, but never had the pleasure of receiving one till your agreeable favor came
to hand the other day,” his friend Robert Carter Nicholas told him wryly. “It was
reported here that Colo. Washington was dead! As you are still alive, I must own
myself obliged to the author of that report.”53 It said something about Washington’s high standing in Virginia society that the capital hummed with these rumors.
When he left for Williamsburg on February 1, he was soon overcome by fever and
had to turn around and return home. The physicians again admonished Washington that he jeopardized his life by taking such a journey. On March 4 he described
to Colonel John Stanwix the “great injury” already done to his constitution and the
need for “the greatest care and most circumspect conduct” if he was to recover.54
With only a slim chance of securing a regular army commission, the despondent
Washington thought of “quitting my command and retiring from all public business, leaving my post to be ﬁlled by others more capable of the task.”55 The next day
he left for Williamsburg, stopping en route to visit his mother. In the capital, Dr.
John Amson assured him that his fears of consumption were unfounded and that
he was indeed recuperating from the dysentery.
For someone with Washington’s robust physique, the dysentery must have had
a profound psychological effect. His body had suddenly lost the strength and resilience that had enabled him to cross freezing streams and ride through snowy
forests. And it was not the ﬁrst time he had experienced a sense of physical fragility.
By the age of twenty-six, he had survived smallpox, pleurisy, malaria, and dysentery.
He had not only evaded bullets but survived disease with astounding regularity. If
these illnesses dimmed his fervor for a military commission, they may also have
reminded him of the forgotten pleasures of domestic life.

chapter seven

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

A Votary to Love

A f t e r h is wou n di ng c on f ron tat ions with the haughty agents of British imperial power—Dinwiddie, Shirley, and Loudoun—Washington could only
have concluded that his dreams of a military career would always be foiled by deepseated prejudice against colonial ofﬁcers and that it made more sense to become
an independent planter. While posted to the frontier in the summer of 1757, he
daydreamed about Mount Vernon and compiled shopping lists of luxury goods
to be shipped from London. Though he had never been to England, he tried to
imitate the style of an English country gentleman, instructing Richard Washington
that “whatever goods you may send me, where the prices are not absolutely limited,
you will let them be fashionable, neat, and good in their several kinds.”1 The young
man’s social ambitions seemed boundless. He ordered a marble chimneypiece with
a landscape painting above the mantel and “ﬁne crimson and yellow papers” for the
walls.2 Such rich colors for wallpaper were then thought very fashionable. Though
mahogany was an expensive imported wood, Washington opted for a mahogany
bedstead and dining table and a dozen mahogany chairs. To entertain in regal style,
he ordered a complete set of ﬁne china, damask tablecloths and napkins, and silver
cutlery whose handles bore the Washington crest—a grifﬁn poised above a crown,
set above an ornamental shield with three stars, the whole emblazoned with the
Latin motto Exitus Acta Probat (“The outcome justiﬁes the deed”). 3 In his purchases, Washington instinctively trod the ﬁne line between showiness and austerity,
deﬁning a characteristic style of understated elegance.
Mount Vernon would be George Washington’s personality writ large, the cherished image he wished to project to the world. Had the estate not possessed pro-

A Votary to Love r! 7 7

found personal meaning for him, he would never have lavished so much time and
money on its improvement. It was Washington’s fervent attachment to Mount Vernon, its rural beauties and tranquil pleasures, that made his later absences from
home so exquisitely painful. He believed in the inﬁnite perfectibility of Mount Vernon, as if it were a canvas that he could constantly retouch and expand. There he
reigned supreme and felt secure as nowhere else.
In December 1757 he made his ﬁrst additions to the property, buying two hundred acres at nearby Dogue Run and another three hundred acres on Little Hunting
Creek. This proved the ﬁrst wave of an expansion that would ultimately culminate
in an eight-thousand-acre estate, divided into ﬁve separate farms. Since few professional architects existed at the time, Washington followed the custom of other
Virginia planters and acted as his own architect. He worked from British architectural manuals, coupled with his own observation of buildings in Williamsburg and
Annapolis. Drawing on popular classical elements, he melded ideas from various
places and devised a synthesis uniquely his own.
In 1758 Washington doubled the size of the main house and began to convert
Lawrence’s farmhouse into an imposing mansion. He could have swept away the
old foundations and started anew, making the house more symmetrical and architecturally satisfying. Instead, he built on top of earlier incarnations. Whether this
stemmed from economy or family reverence is not known. But where Lawrence, a
naval ofﬁcer, had placed the entrance on the east side of the house, facing the water,
George, an army ofﬁcer and a western surveyor, switched the entrance to the west
side, presenting an arresting view for visitors arriving by horse or carriage. First
glimpsed from afar, the house would impress travelers with its grandeur. At this
point, however, it was still boxy and unadorned and devoid of the elements that
later distinguished it: the cupola, the piazza with the long colonnade, the formal
pediment above the entrance. In a geometric pattern likely copied from Belvoir,
Washington laid out a pair of rectangular gardens with brick walls in front of the
house, allowing visitors to experience his magniﬁcent grounds before alighting at
his door. Washington also ﬂeshed out the upstairs, making it a full ﬂoor, reworked
most of the ground-ﬂoor rooms, and added a half-story attic, resulting in eight full
rooms in all.
In 1758 Washington’s aspirations still outstripped his means, and he resorted
to ruses to make his abode seem more opulent. Unable to afford a stone house,
he employed a method known as rusticated boards that created the illusion of a
stone exterior. First plain pine boards were cut and beveled in a way that mimicked
stone blocks. Then white sand from the Chesapeake Bay was mingled with white
paint, which lent the painted wood the rough, granular surface of stone. In many
respects, Mount Vernon is a masterpiece of trompe l’oeil. Washington used another

78

r! The Frontiersm a n

sleight of hand on his study walls, a technique called “graining” that transformed
cheap, locally available woods, such as southern yellow pine or tulip poplar, into
something resembling expensive imported hardwoods, such as mahogany or black
walnut.
Mount Vernon’s history is inseparable from that of its resident slaves, who toiled
in its shadows and shaped every inch of it. The mansion renovation absorbed a
vast amount of human labor: sixteen thousand bricks were forged for two new
chimneys that arose at either end of the house, and slaves scoured nearby woods
for the white oak that underlay roof shingles. For more specialized work, Washington typically hired a white craftsman or indentured servant to supervise skilled
slaves as assistants. By the late 1750s Washington had assembled an expert team of
seven slave carpenters. During the remodeling, overseer Humphrey Knight assured
Washington that he didn’t hesitate to apply the lash, if necessary, to these enslaved
artisans: “As to the carpenters, I have minded ’em all I posably could and has whipt
’em when I could see a fault.”4 It was a relatively rare example in Mount Vernon annals of an overseer confessing that he whipped slaves, a practice Washington grew
to abhor, though he condoned it on rare occasions.

A s Ge orge Wa sh i ngt on introduced new splendor at Mount Vernon, he
needed a wife to complete the pretty scene, and Martha Dandridge Custis made her
timely appearance. Their speedy courtship began in mid-March 1758, right after
Washington journeyed to Williamsburg to consult Dr. John Amson, who allayed his
medical fright by reassuring him that he was recovering from dysentery. Relieved
and elated, Washington rode off to nearby New Kent County to stay with his friend
Richard Chamberlayne, who introduced him to his neighbor, the widow Custis. Her
husband, Daniel Parke Custis, had died the previous July, as had two of her children
in early childhood. She now lived with her four-year-old son John Parke (called
Jacky) and two-year-old daughter Martha Parke (called Patsy) in baronial splendor
on the Pamunkey River at a bucolic mansion known, prophetically enough, as the
White House. Family legend suggests a spontaneous romance between George and
Martha, but the mutual attraction may well have been anticipated. Though this was
their ﬁrst documented meeting, their social circles must have crisscrossed in the
small, clubby world of the Williamsburg elite.
On leave from the Virginia Regiment, Washington courted Martha with the crisp
efﬁciency of a military man laying down a well-planned siege. He spent that ﬁrst
night at the White House before returning to Williamsburg—he tipped the servants
liberally to strengthen his image as a wealthy suitor—and dropped by twice more
during the ﬁrst half of 1758. A brisk competition had already arisen to snare the

A Votary to Love r! 7 9

wealthy widow. A prosperous tobacco planter and widower named Charles Carter,
who was nearly twice her age, had grown enamored of the short, attractive woman
with the “uncommon sweetness of temper,” as he saw it.5 Carter had sired a dozen
offspring in his previous marriage, and Martha, twenty-six, may have been intimidated by the prospect of being stepmother to this numerous brood. Carter faced
stiff competition from Washington, a tall, handsome, young military hero with
room both in his heart and in his home for a wife and two children. To a solitary,
anxious widow, George Washington could only have appeared manly, rock-solid,
and utterly fearless.
We cannot pinpoint the precise moment when George and Martha agreed to
wed, but we do know that within weeks of their ﬁrst meeting, George was transformed into a giddy man of fashion, urgently ordering expensive fabric for what
must have been his wedding outﬁt. He directed his London agent to ship “as much
of the best superﬁne blue cotton velvet as will make a coat, waistcoat, and breeches
for a tall man, with a ﬁne silk button to suit it and all other necessary trimmings
and linings, together with garters for the breeches.”6 He also ordered six pairs of
tony shoes and gloves. A month later he ordered a gold ring from Philadelphia that
he doubtless intended to slip on the diminutive widow’s ﬁnger. Not to be outdone
in brightening up a wardrobe, Martha ordered her London tailor to send her “one
genteel suit of clothes for myself to be grave but not to be extrava[ga]nt and not
to be mourning.”7 Throwing off her widow’s weeds, she packed off a nightgown to
London “to be dyed of fashionable color ﬁt for me to wear.”8 Though such letters
may give the unseemly impression of an overly lusty widow, it was then routine, as
a matter of economic necessity, for the bereaved to remarry quickly. The prolonged
mourning rituals that came with the Victorian era would have seemed like futile
self-indulgence in the eighteenth century.
By marrying Martha Dandridge Custis, Washington swiftly achieved the social advancement for which he had struggled in the military. Almost overnight he
was thrust into top-drawer Virginia society and could dispense with the servility
that had sometimes marked his dealings with social superiors. Marriage to Martha
brought under his control a small kingdom of real estate tended by dark-skinned
human beings. She had a bountiful collection of properties, including thousands of
acres around Williamsburg, nearly three hundred slaves, and hundreds of head of
cattle, hogs, and sheep. The property came, however, with a signiﬁcant catch. Inasmuch as Daniel Parke Custis had died intestate, English common law decreed that
only one-third of his estate could be claimed directly by Martha during her lifetime.
She thus owned only eighty-ﬁve slaves, referred to as “dower” slaves, who would revert to Jacky Custis after her death. The other two-thirds of the estate were pledged
to the ﬁnancial support of the Custis children. George would serve as custodian of

80

r! The Frontiersm a n

this wealth, entangling him in legal complications for the rest of his life. It’s worth
noting that after her husband’s death, the practical Martha hadn’t thrown herself
at the mercy of older male ﬁnancial advisers but had had the pluck and fortitude
to handle his business affairs by herself. Whether sending tobacco to England, placing orders with London merchants, or extending loans to neighbors, she gained an
invaluable education in plantation management.
George and Martha Washington formed an oddly matched visual pair: she
barely cleared ﬁve feet, and her hands and feet were as petite as George’s were famously huge. A portrait of Martha done shortly before Daniel died displays nothing especially soft or alluring to set a young man’s pulse racing. She wears a low-cut,
satiny blue dress, shows a shapely ﬁgure and bosom, and wears her dark hair pulled
back, adorned with pearls. The small head, set on its elongated neck, isn’t especially pretty: the forehead is too low, the hairline receding, the nose too hooked, the
mouth too short, the jaw too round. Her hazel eyes are serious and watchful. It is
the portrait of a plain, sensible young woman who already seems a triﬂe matronly.
All the same, one suspects that the artist failed to catch the irrepressible warmth
and charm that animated her features. The sitter’s soul is smothered by the stiff
pose of a woman holding a blossom and staring at the viewer. It should also be said
that Martha had the reputation of being a beauty in her youth. “She was at one time
one of the most beautiful women in America and today there remains something
extremely agreeable and attractive about her,” recounted a Polish nobleman several
years before her death.9 From surviving artifacts, such as the purple satin shoes with
high heels and silver sequins that she wore on her wedding day, we know that Martha Custis was a stylish young woman and even something of a clotheshorse.
In the eighteenth century, marriage was regarded more as a practical arrangement than as a vehicle for love, and the Washington marriage may never have been
a torrid romance. But that aside, in selecting Martha Dandridge Custis, George
Washington chose even better than he knew. She was the perfect foil to his mother:
warm and sociable, always fun to be with, and favored with pleasing manners. She
would give George the unstinting love and loyalty that Mary had withheld. By offering her husband such selﬂess devotion, she solidly anchored his life in an enduring
marriage. Martha had the cheerfulness to lighten his sometimes somber personality
and was the one person who dared to kid her “Old Man,” as she teasingly referred
to him. Despite the many people in his eventful life, George Washington lacked a
large number of close friends or conﬁdants, and Martha alone could cater to all his
emotional needs.
In every respect, Martha turned out to be an immense social asset to his career.
She was the perfect hostess, with a ready smile, overﬂowing goodwill, and a genuine interest in her guests. With company, she was convivial and welcoming, where

A Votary to Love r! 81

George tended to be more cordial and correct, and she worked her inﬂuence in a
self-effacing style. “His lady is of a hospitable disposition, always good-humored
and cheerful, and seems to be actuated by the same motives with himself, but she is
rather of a more lively disposition,” observed one visitor to Mount Vernon. “They
are to all appearances a happy pair.”10
Martha never craved wealth or status, perhaps because she already had it; nor
did she feed her husband’s ambitions. She was never dazzled by his later fame and
never put on airs. Nevertheless she faithfully supported George’s plans and bowed
to the exorbitant demands of his career, if not always with unmixed enthusiasm.
Direct, plainspoken, and free of frivolity, she lacked the feminine wiles that had so
aroused George with Sally Fairfax. Abigail Adams captured Martha Washington
perfectly when she said, “Her manners are modest and unassuming, digniﬁed and
feminine, not a tincture of hauteur about her.”11 In fact, she remained a bustling,
hardworking housewife, occupied with domestic chores until the end of her life,
and was fully equal to the administrative demands of Mount Vernon.
Eight months older than George, Martha Dandridge was born on June 2, 1731, in
rural New Kent County, the eldest of eight children, three of whom died young. Her
father, John Dandridge—a county clerk, militia colonel, and minor tobacco planter
on the Pamunkey River—had married Frances Jones the previous year. Fifteen or
twenty slaves worked the tobacco ﬁelds on their plantation, Chestnut Grove, which
covered ﬁve hundred acres. Their agrarian household was fairly spartan, and Martha, or “Patsy,” was raised as a domestic helpmate to her mother. She grew up in a
proper though hardly genteel house and was never too superior to perform housework. The provincial world of Martha’s girlhood didn’t spoil young ladies. “She told
me she remembered the time when there was only one single carriage in all of Virginia,” said a later visitor to Mount Vernon. “Ladies invited to entertainment arrived
on horseback.”12 As the eldest child, Martha Dandridge was occupied with domestic
skills that she later taught to indentured servants and slaves at Mount Vernon. Her
industrious nature must have pleased George Washington. Both of them were early
risers, used every moment proﬁtably, and stuck to the same daily routines.
Like her future husband, Martha Dandridge grew up in a world where slavery
was taken for granted, as were illegitimate children sired by the master. A few historians (though by no means all) believe that she had a young half sister named Ann
Dandridge who was the offspring of her father and a slave woman of mixed black
and Cherokee Indian blood. The little girl, who was likely much younger than Martha, didn’t know the true story of her identity. If the story is to be believed, Martha,
to her credit, kept Ann Dandridge in the Custis family and brought her to Mount
Vernon; to her discredit, she never emancipated her half sister, who wasn’t freed
until 1802, after Martha’s death.13 Helen Bryan, a Martha Washington biographer,

82

r! The Frontiersm a n

believes that Ann Dandridge was free, although perceived to be a slave, while the
historian Henry Wiencek thinks she was treated as a slave, albeit a privileged one.14
George and Martha Washington never dropped hints in their letters about Ann
Dandridge, who was all but expunged from their history and never listed in Mount
Vernon records.
Martha Washington enjoyed a steady faith from the time of her childhood. Her
father was a church vestryman, and she was an observant member of the Church of
England until the Revolution. “After breakfast, she retired for an hour to her chamber, which hour was spent in prayer and reading the Holy Scriptures, a practice
that she never omitted during half a century of her varied life,” said her grandson.15
As was palpable later on as she endured many family deaths, she retained a simple
but intense belief in the afterlife. Her philosophic and religious outlook tallied well
in most respects with George Washington’s. They both believed in a world replete
with suffering in which one muddled through with as much dignity and grace as
one could muster. Neither George nor Martha ever reacted to grave setbacks in a
maudlin, self-pitying manner.
Before she died, likely for privacy reasons and perhaps by prior agreement with
her husband, Martha Washington committed to the ﬂames their entire personal
correspondence; only a handful of messages survived the bonﬁre. From two of her
surviving letters—one addressed to “My Dearest” and the other to “My Love”—we
can tell that she adored her husband, and George wrote in the same vein.16 Martha
had little, if any, formal schooling and had a habit of torturing the English language.
Her grammar was poor, her spelling eccentric, her punctuation nonexistent. (She
seemed to specialize in run-on sentences.) Nonetheless she was an avid newspaper
reader and kept up with some of the best literature imported from London in the
1760s, including Oliver Goldsmith’s The Vicar of Wakeﬁeld and Samuel Johnson’s
Rasselas, as well as gothic romance novels.
That Martha concealed a vein of steel behind her conciliatory manner—that she
was much more than the sweet, grandmotherly little woman of popular legend—is
manifest in the story of her marriage to Daniel Parke Custis. Daniel’s father, Colonel John Custis IV, was a rich, tyrannical man who had made life sheer misery for
his equally difﬁcult wife, Fidelia, née Frances Parke. Their marital spats were the
stuff of legend on the eastern shore of Virginia. When the couple rode by the shore
one day, John became so enraged at Fidelia that he drove their carriage straight into
Chesapeake Bay. When Fidelia asked where he was going, John replied with a sneer,
“To hell, Madam.” To which she retorted boldly, “Drive on, sir.”17
The tightﬁsted Custis, an overbearing father, was appalled when he learned that
his bachelor son Daniel, in his late thirties, was secretly engaged to the adolescent
Martha Dandridge. He had already vetoed a series of potential brides and dismissed

A Votary to Love r! 83

Martha as a social-climbing commoner “much inferior in point of fortune” to his
son, vowing that he would rather toss his silverware into the street than allow her
to inherit it.18 Adding to this combustible mix was a mulatto son named Jack that
John Custis had fathered with a slave called Alice. Once before John had threatened
to disown Daniel and leave all his money to “Black Jack.” This seemed a distinct
possibility if Daniel didn’t shelve his plans to marry Martha Dandridge. Far from
hiding Black Jack, the irascible John Custis doted on him, and when the little boy
was ﬁve, he submitted a petition to the governor to free the boy “christened John
but commonly called Jack, born of the body of his Negro wench young Alice.”19 To
celebrate his emancipation, the boy was given four slaves as playmates.20 Obviously
John Custis didn’t rate very highly as a child psychologist.
During the impasse over the proposed marriage, Martha made the courageous
decision to appeal to John Custis directly at his Williamsburg mansion and beard
the lion in his den. Somehow she reached into herself and found hidden reserves
of strength. We don’t know what she said to sweet-talk this cantankerous man into
agreement, but she won him over completely. Although he now hailed her as “beautiful and sweet-tempered,” he still didn’t consent to the marriage. Nonetheless, soon
after Martha’s visit, a family lawyer named James Power gave a horse, bridle, and
saddle to Black Jack and informed John Custis that this had been Daniel’s doing.
The touching display of brotherly love ﬁnally made John Custis submit to his son’s
marriage to Martha. As the lawyer told Daniel, “I am empowered by your father to
let you know that he heartily and willingly consents to your marriage with Miss
Dandridge—that he has so good a character of her, that he had rather you should
have her than any lady in Virginia.”21 Power lauded the “prudent speech” that Martha made to her future father-in-law, but several scholars have speculated that Martha arranged the cunning gift to Black Jack, the master stroke of the drama. She had
shown extraordinary coolness under ﬁre, foreshadowing her ability to deal with
incendiary situations later on. On May 15, 1750, Martha Dandridge, eighteen, at last
wed Daniel Parke Custis, thirty-eight. Black Jack resided with the newlyweds at the
White House until he died, probably from meningitis, eighteen months later.

By e a r ly A pr i l 17 5 8 George Washington was sufﬁciently recovered from his
bout of dysentery that he traveled west to regain control of the Virginia Regiment.
Due to his blossoming romance with Martha Custis, he had to deal with one piece of
unﬁnished business: his lingering infatuation with Sally Fairfax. It seems likely that
when her husband, George William, was detained in Great Britain on legal matters
that winter, Sally frequented Mount Vernon and nursed George through his illness.
We will never know whether their affair was consummated. Since Washington had

84

r! The Frontiersm a n

retained the admiration of both his patron Colonel Fairfax and his son George
William, it seems hard to believe he had ever lured Sally into outright inﬁdelity.
Both George and Sally would have recognized the forbidden, illicit nature of their
bond, the fearful price they would pay in Virginia society for any major transgression. There was probably much saucy banter and teasing pleasantries—the stuff of
eighteenth-century gallantry—mixed up with deep affection and ﬂirtation in their
relationship. At the same time, there is little doubt of George’s passionate attachment to this woman or the lasting power she exerted on his feverish imagination.
His feelings for Sally Fairfax belonged to that brand of impossible, unattainable
love for an older married woman that has ﬁlled the amorous fantasies of ardent
young men throughout history.
On September 12, 1758, George Washington sat down at Fort Cumberland and
penned a letter to Sally Fairfax that was an eloquent valedictory, not so much to
their friendship, which would continue unabated, as to their sentimental affair. He
had just received a letter from Sally, relayed by George William, who was helping to
supervise renovations at Mount Vernon. Flooded with emotion at seeing the letter,
Washington told her “how joyfully I catch at the happy occasion of renewing a correspondence which I feared was disrelished on your part.”22 That Sally had suspended
the correspondence suggests that she feared Washington might be straying into dangerous territory and had to be pointedly restrained. In his response, Washington was
probably motivated by two impending events: his marriage to Martha Custis and
a hazardous military campaign against Fort Duquesne that would naturally have
awakened thoughts of mortality. The letter is written with the stilted syntax that
Washington exhibited whenever he grappled with strongly conﬂicting emotions.
At the outset of this coded letter, he made glancing reference to “the animating
prospect of possessing Mrs. Custis,” leaving no doubt that he planned to proceed
with the wedding. Then he went on to deliver a cunningly ambiguous love note in
which he was obviously talking about Sally, while making it seem to prying eyes
that he referred to Martha:
Tis true, I profess myself a votary to Love. I acknowledge that a lady is in the case
and further I confess that this lady is known to you. Yes, Madam, as well as she is to
one who is too sensible of her charms to deny the power whose inﬂuence he feels
and must ever submit to. I feel the force of her amiable beauties in the recollection
of a thousand tender passages that I could wish to obliterate till I am bid to revive
them. But experience, alas!, sadly reminds me how impossible this is and evinces
an opinion which I have long entertained that there is a destiny which has the sovereign control of our actions, not to be resisted by the strongest efforts of human
nature.23

A Votary to Love r! 85

The reference to a “thousand tender passages” makes clear that Sally, not Martha,
was the lady in question; George’s acquaintance with Martha was too brief to have
packed in so many tender memories. He seemed to be saying that their love, defeated by the practical circumstances of life, was simply not meant to be. She was
married to a rich man, and he was about to marry a rich woman, and George Washington, for all his high-ﬂown rhetoric, was an eminently practical young man, not
cut out for doomed, quixotic affairs. He ended the epistle with a frank admission of
love: “You have drawn me, my dear Madam, or rather have I drawn myself, into an
honest confession of a simple fact. Misconstrue not my meaning—’tis obvious—
doubt it not, nor expose it. The world has no business to know the object of my
love, declared in this manner to you, when I want to conceal it . . . I dare believe you
are as happy as you say. I wish I was happy also. Mirth, good humor, ease of mind
and—what else?—cannot fail to render you so and consummate your wishes.”24
This letter overturns the conventional image of a phlegmatic Washington and
shows a much more passionate ﬁgure. It shocks as well because of his apparent
betrayal of his friend and patron, George William Fairfax, and his ﬁancée, Martha.
Any moral outrage must be tempered, however, by the overriding fact that George
was honorably declaring an end to their amorous relationship on the eve of his
marriage, which would call an irrevocable halt to such youthful folly. Sally Fairfax
had always been somewhat coy and elusive with Washington, as evidenced by her
recent discontinuance of their correspondence. Her coquetry, in the last analysis,
was constrained by a self-protective instinct. She had also, as the letter makes clear,
insisted that she was happy with her life. So why did Washington write such a daring letter? There is always the possibility that he was testing the waters with Sally
one last time before he committed to marriage. Or perhaps, at the end, he wanted
some ﬁnal validation of his powerful longings for Sally, some recognition that she,
too, had been deeply touched by taboo feelings. That he announced his love in such
dramatic fashion conﬁrms that he had never done so before and that he and Sally
had left many things unsaid and probably undone. Whatever was the true situation, Sally must have recognized and treasured the frank admission of love, for she
retained the letter until she died in 1811—a period of more than ﬁfty years.
Although Sally’s response has been lost, we can surmise its contents from Washington’s September 25 reply. Apparently she either feigned ignorance of the mystery
lady’s identity, or pretended it was Martha. Washington stood his ground. “Dear
Madam, do we still misunderstand the true meaning of each other’s letters? I think
it must appear so, tho[ugh] I would feign hope the contrary as I cannot speak
plainer without. But I’ll say no more and leave you to guess the rest.”25 Washington
knew that any greater candor could wreck two marriages. That Sally refused to
credit his love or openly reciprocate it suggests that she was an artful woman who

86

r! The Frontiersm a n

had enjoyed having her vanity stroked by a handsome younger man. This would
have made Washington the more appreciative of Martha, who was practical, honest, and straightforward. The youthful infatuation prepared Washington for the
deeper joys of marriage, although the beguiling image of Sally Fairfax persisted
in his memory. She would always be mixed up with recollections of Belvoir and
an idyllic, sunstruck period of his youth. The Sally Fairfax saga may well testify to
Washington’s repressed romantic nature, buried beneath many layers of reserve.
But it’s even more a stoic tale of self-denial, previewing the supreme command he
would attain over his unruly emotions. Washington’s storied self-control was not
something inherited but achieved by dint of hard work, making it all the more formidable an accomplishment.
In later years Washington liked to philosophize about love and marriage and
became a veritable Polonius with young relatives as he peppered them with sage
advice. In 1795 he received a letter from his adopted granddaughter, Eleanor Parke
Custis, who had attended a Georgetown ball and boasted of her indifference to
the advances of young men there. Washington warned her bluntly of the oftenunstoppable force of passion. “Do not therefore boast too soon or too strongly of
your insensibility . . . to its power. In the composition of the human frame, there
is a good deal of inﬂammable matter [W apparently meant ﬂammable], however
dormant it may lie for a time and . . . when the torch is put to it, that which is
within you may burst into a blaze.” Washington went on to say that this mighty
blaze “ought to be under the guidance of reason, for although we cannot avoid ﬁrst
impressions, we may assuredly place them under guard.”26 The author of these lines
seemed knowledgeable about ungovernable emotions and how to tame them.
Perhaps the best proof that the relationship between Washington and Sally Fairfax stayed deep but platonic is that the Washingtons remained intimate friends with
George William and Sally Fairfax before the American Revolution and even traveled
with them. In all likelihood, George confessed to Martha his longtime ﬂirtation,
which had cooled and receded to its proper place. The febrile yearnings of youth
had made way for a more mature love. It speaks to the strength of the Washingtons’
marriage that they were never threatened by the close proximity of Sally Fairfax,
who remained a welcome guest at Mount Vernon and no less a friend to Martha
than to George. There is something admirably grown-up, sensitive, and digniﬁed
about the way these two couples handled a most delicate situation.

chapter eight

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Darling of a Grateful Country

I n t h e spr i ng of 17 5 8 George Washington entertained one last forlorn hope
of a brilliantly climactic military campaign in the Ohio Valley. He was about to
tender his resignation when he heard reports in March that the Crown planned to
send a ﬂeet with seven thousand men to North America and contemplated another
operation against Fort Duquesne. The new commander, Brigadier General John
Forbes, was a veteran Scottish ofﬁcer who took a decidedly low view of colonial
ofﬁcers, maligning them as a “bad collection of broken innkeepers, horse jockeys,
and Indian traders.”1
Hoping to curry favor with Forbes, Washington wrote to Brigadier General John
Stanwix and badgered him “to mention me in favorable terms to General Forbes,”
but “not as a person who would depend upon him for further recommendation to
military preferment, for I have long conquered all such expectancies . . . but as a
person who would gladly be distinguished in some measure from the common run
of provincial ofﬁcers.”2 Perhaps a chastened Washington meant it when he now
said that he expected no royal commission. Contrary to his bias against colonial
soldiers, Forbes singled out Washington as “a good and knowing ofﬁcer in the back
countries.”3 To augment the chances for victory at the Forks of the Ohio, the Virginia assembly decided to raise a second regiment, doubling its armed force to two
thousand men, with George Washington as the presiding senior ofﬁcer.
In early July at Fort Cumberland, Washington showed how ﬁghting in the hinterlands had tutored him in Indian-style warfare. When he ran short of uniforms,
he outﬁtted both himself and his men in Indian hunting shirts and leggings, helping them to emulate the light, mobile style of their ﬂeet-footed adversaries. While

88

r! The Frontiersm a n

admitting to Forbes’s chief aide that it was “an unbecoming dress” for an ofﬁcer,
he argued that “soldiers in such a dress are better able to carry their provisions,
are ﬁtter for the active service we are engaged in, and less liable to sink under the
fatigues of a long march.”4 Even though Washington won permission to assume Indian dress, he still acknowledged the incontestable superiority of Indian warriors:
“I cannot conceive the best white men to be equal to them in the woods.”5
A victim of political wrangling in Williamsburg, Washington was eager to renew
his bid for a seat from Frederick County in the House of Burgesses. He probably
wished to erase the memory of his poor showing three years earlier and establish
through public service his credentials as an aspiring gentleman. Learning from past
mistakes, he gave plenty of notice for his candidacy this time and assembled a cadre
of active, energetic friends who cheerfully drummed up support in Winchester in
his absence. Nonetheless they pleaded with him to come and politick in person. His
friend Colonel James Wood, the town’s leading citizen, warned that there was “no
relying on the promises of the common herd . . . There are many of us embarked
on the same cause with you and a disappointment will sit heavy on us.”6 Leaving no
stone unturned, Robert Rutherford told Washington that they were encouraging
voters “with the greatest ardor, even down to Will the hatter and his oily spouse.”7
Washington secured permission to travel to Winchester to campaign, then chose to
stay with his troops. This may have been from a sense of duty or from fear that he
would miss a victorious battle. Washington had also begun to intuit the subtle art
of seeking power by refraining from too obvious a show of ambition.
On election day, July 24, 1758, the absentee candidate engaged in the popular, if
technically illegal, custom of intoxicating local voters. His campaign forwarded him
an expense account for thirty-four gallons of wine, three pints of brandy, thirteen
gallons of beer, eight quarts of cider, and forty gallons of rum punch, costing the
candidate a sizable thirty-nine pounds in Virginia currency. Accepting this expense,
Washington hoped that his backers had plied all voters impartially with strong beverages: “My only fear is that you spent with too sparing a hand.”8
As voting for the two seats got under way in Washington’s absence, it was clear
how much power the young war hero wielded in this rustic area. He proﬁted from
the fact that one candidate was Thomas Bryan Martin, the nephew of Thomas,
Lord Fairfax, proprietor of the Northern Neck. Since each voter cast two votes,
Washington and Martin formed a ticket against the incumbents, with the latter’s
presence enlisting Fairfax support. Among those supporting Washington was Lord
Fairfax himself, followed by a sterling list of local luminaries and his regimental
surgeon, Dr. James Craik. Even George William Fairfax arrived in Winchester to
endorse his wife’s faithful admirer. The ﬁnal vote sharply reversed Washington’s
crashing defeat of three years earlier as he garnered 309 of 397 votes cast and eas-

Darling of a Grateful Country r! 8 9

ily outpaced the other three candidates, including Thomas Bryan Martin, who, as
runner-up with 240 votes, became the second burgess.
Washington’s vote-getting prowess was only magniﬁed by having trounced his
opponents in absentia. Robert Rutherford credited his victory to his fair treatment
of his men and “ardent zeal for the common cause.”9 Colonel Wood was hoisted
aloft and carried about the town amid boisterous huzzahs for Washington. In thanking friends for their support, Colonel Washington sounded openly jubilant: “If
thanks ﬂowing from a heart replete with joy and gratitude can in any measure compensate for the fatigue, anxiety and pain you had at my election, be assured you have
them.”10 He instinctively struck a generous tone, stating that his best way of thanking
voters was by “making their interests . . . my own and doing everything that lies in
my little power for the honor and welfare of the county.”11 With a thoroughness that
previewed bigger things to come, Washington ﬁled away the poll sheet so that he
could form his own alphabetized list, showing how each person had voted.
Even as he thrilled to this electoral victory, he was entangled in a bitter imbroglio
over the optimal route for the march to Fort Duquesne, a seemingly minor tactical
dispute with major political overtones. Washington wanted the Forbes expedition
to follow the road Braddock had charted through the wilderness, not only because
he himself had originally blazed the trail but because it passed through Virginia and
would consolidate the colony’s commercial presence in the Ohio Country. Some
assertive Philadelphians agitated for a road from Raystown, Pennsylvania, which
would beneﬁt their colony. After chatting with Colonel Henry Bouquet, an aide
to General Forbes, Washington was aghast to discover that he favored the Pennsylvania road. “If Colo. Bouquet succeeds in this point with the general, all is lost!
All is lost by Heavens!” Washington told Forbes’s secretary, Francis Halkett.12 In
resorting to hyperbole, Washington may have thought he was claiming the moral
high ground, but Forbes saw only a self-serving maneuver by a bumptious young
Virginian. “By a very unguarded letter of Col. Washington that accidentally fell into
my hands,” Forbes told Bouquet, “I am now at the bottom of their scheme against
this new [Pennsylvania] road, a scheme that I think was a shame for any ofﬁcer to
be concerned in.”13 At this stage of his life, Washington sometimes found it difﬁcult
to distinguish his own from the general interest. In selecting the Pennsylvania road,
military historians have argued, Forbes may have selected the better route because
it was shorter and bypassed treacherous water crossings. Conceding these advantages, an unyielding Washington countered that the Pennsylvania road had to span
“monstrous mountains, covered with woods and rocks” and might not be ﬁnished
before cold weather intervened.14
The willful Washington refused to let the matter drop. In late August he wrote a
rude, hectoring letter to Bouquet, chiding him that, if only they had chosen Brad-

90

r! The Frontiersm a n

dock’s Road, they would now be undisputed masters of the Ohio Country.15 Committing a mistake common among headstrong young people, Washington went
behind his opponent’s back to someone even higher. He hadn’t yet acquired smooth
political skills and could seem crudely insistent. With questionable judgment, he
circumvented Forbes and Bouquet to lobby the new Virginia lieutenant governor,
Francis Fauquier, who had replaced Dinwiddie. He also told Speaker Robinson that
Forbes had squandered an egregious amount of time and money: “Will then our
injured country pass by such abuses? I hope not. Rather let a full representation of
the matter go to His Majesty. Let him know how grossly his [honor] and the public money has been prostituted.”16 All this heated rhetoric came from a man later
renowned for his cool judgment. Perhaps, newly elected to the House of Burgesses,
Washington felt entitled to issue blunt ultimatums to Williamsburg politicians. It
should also be noted that his special pleading made him a folk hero in Virginia,
where he was applauded for standing up for the colony’s interests by proselytizing
for Braddock’s Road.
When General Forbes drew up plans for the assault on Fort Duquesne, he overcame his irritation with Washington and assigned him to lead one of three brigades
spearheading the charge. The young Virginian was the only colonial ofﬁcer thus
honored. As he braced for a last chance to show his military mettle, Washington
experienced one of the more harrowing moments in his career. The ghastly mishap
began when scouts alerted Forbes to an enemy reconnaissance party, prowling the
woods three miles away, who were seeking to grab livestock. To handle this threat,
Forbes dispatched hundreds of Virginians under Lieutenant Colonel George Mercer. At camp, Washington heard distinct sounds of “hot ﬁring,” indicating to him
and Forbes that Mercer’s men were taking a terrible pounding from the enemy.
Forbes sent Washington and several hundred men to relieve their fellow Virginians.
They advanced through woods in a deepening twilight that was thickened by musket smoke, screening off any clear view of the ﬁghting up ahead. Washington later
insisted that he had sent a messenger to notify Mercer of his approach, lest his men
be mistaken for the enemy.
No sooner did Washington’s men glimpse the soldiers ahead than they reeled
under the impact of repeated rounds of gunﬁre and began to ﬁre back. It turned
out that Virginians were ﬁring at Virginians. As Washington fathomed the full horror of this mistake, he unsheathed his sword and slashed at his men’s leveled muskets to stop their ﬁring, but it was too late. The misadventure left behind staggering
casualties: fourteen dead and twenty-six wounded. Even after the Revolutionary
War, Washington said of this star-crossed episode that his life had been “in as much
jeopardy as it had ever been before or since.”17
This was now the fourth time that Washington had traversed the path to the

Darling of a Grateful Country r! 91

Forks of the Ohio, and each time his military aspirations had been foiled by unforeseen developments. For someone of Washington’s dogged nature, the frustration
must have been mortifying. The French and Indian War had humbled him with
cruel ironies and unexpected setbacks, leaving him more philosophic and reﬂective.
As he wrote a few years later, “Human affairs are always checkered and vicissitudes
in this life are rather to be expected than wondered at.”18
When the fall of Fort Duquesne ﬁnally came in late November 1758, it was almost anticlimactic. Forbes was about to defer the attack until the following spring
when three prisoners disclosed that the French fort was now undermanned. An
Indian scout then appeared and told of huge billows of smoke rising from the post.
Forbes assembled 2,500 men to take the fort and gave Washington the “brevet,” or
honorary rank, of brigadier general for the operation. When this huge force arrived on the scene on November 25, 1758, they found only the charred, smoldering
remains of Fort Duquesne. Deserted by their Indian allies, the French had deemed
the fort dangerously indefensible, blown it up, and ﬂed by night down the Ohio
River. Fort Pitt—the new name paid tribute to William Pitt—would arise on the
ﬂaming wreckage of Fort Duquesne. Colonel Bouquet gloated that one reason for
the triumph was Forbes’s refusal to capitulate to Braddock’s Road, “which would
have been our destruction.”19
The conquest rang down the curtain on Washington’s military tenure after ﬁve
years of devoted service. With the safety of Virginia’s pioneers and traders temporarily assured, it was an auspicious moment for him to resign his commission and
focus his energies on Martha Dandridge Custis and Mount Vernon. His upcoming
marriage and service in the House of Burgesses offered a seamless transition into
a promising new life. Health reasons also lay behind the resignation. Washington’s
dysentery had apparently ﬂared up again, because he described his health as “precarious” that December, having worsened “for many months before, occasioned by
an inveterate disorder” in his bowels.20
As word of Washington’s resignation spread, his ofﬁcers seemed genuinely
crestfallen. He had done a superlative job of taking callow recruits, introducing
discipline, and spurring them to function as more professional soldiers. His boon
companion, Captain Robert Stewart, spoke for many when he wrote to Washington
how he would miss “your constant company and conversation in which I have been
so long happy.”21 Stewart’s letter conﬁrms Washington’s high stature in Virginia,
for he hoped that his friend would “continue the darling of a grateful country [i.e.,
Virginia] for the many eminent services you have rendered her.”22 Twenty-seven ofﬁcers from the Virginia Regiment banded together to laud Washington in a farewell
message. They extolled the same virtues that would be praised in the Revolutionary War and showed the same tender affection as their later counterparts. They

92

r! The Frontiersm a n

hailed Washington’s “steady adherence to impartial justice” and “invariable regard
to merit,” and they credited his “honor and passion for glory” as the source of his
military achievements. They also eulogized him as “an excellent commander,” “sincere friend,” and “affable” companion.23 These were mighty tributes to bestow on a
twenty-six-year-old. So while Washington might have alienated assorted politicians
and generals, he retained the unswerving fealty of his men and the Virginia public
at large.
Beneath the hard rind, Washington was far more sensitive than he appeared,
and this heartfelt message from his men “affected him exceedingly,” he admitted.24
He had a ﬁne sense of occasion, displayed in this early response to his men. Already
adept at tearful farewells, he exhibited the succinct eloquence that came to deﬁne
his speaking style. He began by calling the ofﬁcers’ approval of his conduct “an
honor that will constitute the greatest happiness of my life and afford in my latest
hours the most pleasing reﬂections.”25 Unable to avoid a youthful dig at Dinwiddie
and Forbes, he hinted at the “uncommon difﬁculties” under which he had labored.
But it was the palpable affection he summoned up for his men that made the statement noteworthy. Washington thanked his ofﬁcers “with uncommon sincerity and
true affection for the honor you have done me, for if I have acquired any reputation,
it is from you I derive it. I thank you also for the love and regard you have all along
shown me. It is in this I am rewarded. It is herein I glory.”26
Had Washington’s military career ended with the French and Indian War, he
would have earned scarcely more than a footnote in history, yet it is impossible to
imagine his life without this important preamble. The British Empire had committed a major blunder by spurning the talents of such a natural leader. It said
something about the imperial system that it could ﬁnd no satisfactory place for this
loyal, able, and ambitious young subject. The proud Washington had been forced
to bow and scrape for a regular commission, and it irked him that he had to grovel
for recognition. Washington’s military career would be held in abeyance until June
1775, but in the meantime he had acquired a powerful storehouse of grievances that
would fuel his later rage with England.
In the fullness of time, Washington would win a prize inﬁnitely more valuable
than the royal commission he had lost. As a member of the British forces, he had
begun to articulate a comprehensive critique of British ﬁghting methods in North
America. For a young man, he had acquired an amazing amount of experience,
and these precocious achievements yielded a lasting reservoir of self-conﬁdence.
He had proved his toughness and courage in the face of massacres and defeats.
He had learned to train and drill regiments and developed a rudimentary sense
of military strategy. He had shown a real capacity to lead and take responsibility
for fulﬁlling the most arduous missions. Perhaps most important, his experience

Darling of a Grateful Country r! 93

in the French and Indian War made him a believer in a strong central government
and a vigorous executive. Forced to deal with destructive competition among the
colonies, dilatory legislative committees, and squabbling, shortsighted politicians,
he had passed through an excellent dress rehearsal for the prolonged ordeal of the
American Revolution.

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
pa r t t wo

The Planter

The earliest known portrait of Martha Washington, painted by John
Wollaston in 1757, when she was still Martha Dandridge Custis.

chapter nine

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

The Man of Mode

O n Ja n ua ry 6 , 17 59 , coinciding with the celebration of Twelfth Night, George
Washington and Martha Dandridge Custis, attired in the latest British fashions,
were married at her White House residence. George was presumably resplendent in
the blue velvet suit he had had specially shipped from London, while Martha made
a fetching impression in a gown “of deep yellow brocade with rich lace in the neck
and sleeves” accompanied by purple satin shoes.1
While never shrinking from a rich appearance, Martha, like George, shuddered
at any hint of ostentation. We don’t know what the Custis children, Jacky and Patsy,
wore, but their dress probably conformed to that in an earlier painting by John
Wollaston, which presents them in the pampered apparel of little British aristocrats. In that portrait, Jacky sports a shiny blue coat over a light-colored waistcoat,
while Patsy wears a silvery gown edged with lace.
The newlyweds were by no means prudish. In his ﬁrst postnuptial order to London, George ordered four ounces of Spanish ﬂy, a popular aphrodisiac prepared
from dried beetles. At some point that year, he also drew up a list of books inherited from the Custis estate that may disclose something of the amorous interests
of Daniel and Martha Custis, or perhaps of Daniel’s father. The couple possessed
a copy of Conjugal lewdness: or matrimonial whoredom by Daniel Defoe and The
lover’s watch: or the art of making love by Aphra Behn.2
After the weak-willed Daniel Custis, George Washington must have struck Martha as the most commanding of men. Where Daniel had been cowed by a despotic
father, George usually stood up to his forbidding mother. As best we can tell, Mary
Ball Washington boycotted the wedding and, according to Martha’s biographer

98

r! The Pl a nter

Patricia Brady, may not have met the bride until the year after the wedding.3 It is
hard to resist the impression of a lasting coolness between Martha and her motherin-law. Over the next thirty years, there is no evidence that Mary Washington ever
visited Mount Vernon. The only time she saw her daughter-in-law was during
obligatory stops that George and Martha made in Fredericksburg en route to Williamsburg. George routinely dropped in to see Mary and his sister Betty Lewis, who
had married Fielding Lewis, a wealthy merchant, and lived nearby. (Betty bore an
uncanny resemblance to George. Indeed, it was said that had she thrown on a military cloak and hat, battalions would have saluted her.) Washington kept his visits
to his mother brief. During one snowy stay with her in January 1760, he recorded
in his diary that after “getting a few things which I wanted out of the stores, [I]
returned in the evening to mother’s—all alone with her.”4 That he jotted down this
detail suggests that being alone with Mary was an effort. In all likelihood, George
and Martha Washington treated Mary Ball Washington as a slightly dotty, difﬁcult
woman, a troubled oddball whom they had to put up with and never expected to
reform.
Marriage came at a critical moment for George Washington, who went from
a young ofﬁcer at the mercy of the British military establishment to a prosperous
planter who didn’t have to truckle to anyone. He had married up in the world, as
had Martha before him, and they both inherited a huge chunk of the Custis fortune. Once again an untimely death contributed immeasurably to Washington’s
burgeoning wealth. Martha’s money made her husband one of Virginia’s richest
men, enabling him to issue his own declaration of independence. The marriage
brought eighty-ﬁve dower slaves under his control, doubling his labor force. As
the Washington editor Dorothy Twohig notes, “With his marriage, [Washington]
was now in control of one of Virginia’s largest and most proﬁtable estates, including property in 6 counties amounting to nearly 8,000 acres, slaves valued at
£9,000 Virginia currency, and accounts current and other liquid assets in England
of about £10,000 sterling.”5 Then on March 14, 1761, Ann Fairfax Lee, the widow of
George’s half brother Lawrence, died. Because she had no surviving child, George
Washington suddenly graduated to full-ﬂedged ownership of Mount Vernon, inheriting another ﬁve slaves. Once again he was the lucky beneﬁciary of a death in
the family.
These sudden windfalls gave Washington new social standing and considerable
freedom to maneuver. In time, this wealth would free up the better angels of his
nature and give him the resources to back up his strong opinions. As John Adams
later wondered, “Would Washington have ever been commander of the revolutionary army or president of the United States, if he had not married the rich widow
of Mr. Custis?”6 Once he married, an air of contentment settled over Washington’s

The Man of Mode r! 9 9

restless life. From Mount Vernon, he wrote serenely to Richard Washington, “I am
now, I believe, ﬁxed at this seat with an agreeable consort for life and hope to ﬁnd
more happiness in retirement than I ever experienced amidst a wide and bustling
world.”7 This was the ﬁrst, but hardly the last, time that Washington nursed a pastoral fantasy of withdrawal from all worldly cares, a fantasy that would be repeatedly
mocked by the imperious call of political events.
Civic duties formed an essential part of the ethos of a gentleman, so it was
ﬁtting that on his twenty-seventh birthday, one month after his marriage, Washington assumed his seat in the House of Burgesses. Four days later he enjoyed a
heady moment when his new colleagues, in a glowing resolution, thanked him for
“his faithful services to His Majesty and this colony” and his “brave and steady
behavior.”8 A boisterous chorus of ayes roared their unanimous approval of the
resolution. No longer a youthful protégé, Washington now stood forth as a social
peer of these well-to-do planters. Such attention always brought out a certain awkwardness in Washington, who was ill at ease with public oratory and uncomfortable
with ﬂattery, perhaps because he secretly craved it. With a touch of embellishment,
one burgess remembered Washington’s ﬂustered response: “He rose to express his
acknowledgments for the honor, but such was his trepidation and confusion that
he could not give distinct utterance to a single syllable.” The man who faced bullets with sangfroid never conquered his terror of public speaking. “He blushed,
stammered, and trembled for a second, when the speaker relieved him by a stroke
of address . . . ‘Sit down, Mr. Washington,’ said he, with a conciliating smile, ‘your
modesty is equal to your valor, and that surpasses the power of any language that
I possess.’ ”9
Washington was assigned to the Committee on Propositions and Grievances,
which dealt with commercial and governmental matters. By the end of the year,
drawing on his military experience, he sat on three committees that sorted through
petitions from soldiers and army vendors. The taciturn Washington wasn’t the kind
of glib burgess who sprang to his feet and orated extemporaneously. He practiced
a minimalist art in politics, learning how to exert maximum leverage with the least
force. Thomas Jefferson, who was to serve with Washington and Franklin in the
Continental Congress, spotted their economical approach to power. “I never heard
either of them speak ten minutes at a time, nor to any but the main point,” he later
said of the two statesmen. “They laid their shoulders to the great points, knowing
that the little ones would follow of themselves.”10 Later on Washington coached
his stepson on how to be a Virginia legislator, reminding him to be punctual in
attendance and “hear dispassionately and determine coolly all great questions.”11
Washington’s experience as a burgess educated him in politics no less thoroughly
than his combat experience on the western frontier groomed him for future mili-

10 0

r! The Pl a nter

tary leadership, creating a rare combination of talents that endowed him with the
ideal credentials at the time the American Revolution erupted.
From the outset, Washington demonstrated his conscientious nature as a legislator and attended sessions until early April to support a bill to sustain the Virginia
Regiment. Then he, Martha, and her two children set off for Mount Vernon, with
Martha and the children installed in the glamorous Custis coach and George trotting alongside them on horseback. Because he was still refurbishing Mount Vernon,
Washington felt apprehensive about subjecting his bride and stepchildren to the
dust and din, paint and plaster, of an unﬁnished house. He wrote ahead to have
the rooms aired and cleaned and beds made up in two rooms. The nervous young
husband, wanting everything just right for his new family’s arrival, instructed John
Alton to “get out the chairs and tables and have them very well rubbed and cleaned.
The staircase ought also to be polished in order to make it look well. Inquire ab[ou]t
in the neighborhood and get some eggs and chickens.”12 After Washington’s lengthy
frontier sojourn, the house was stirring to life again, and Martha would soon describe it as a place of “mirth and gaiety.”13
If Martha’s wealth lifted Washington into the top ranks of Virginia planters, it
didn’t emancipate him from all cares, for he was soon tangled in the legal complexities of the Custis fortune. Under the terms of the estate, George and Martha controlled one-third of the Custis property. The two children each received one-third
of the income from the Custis assets, while only Jacky, as the male heir, would inherit eventually all the Custis land and slaves. In Williamsburg in late April, Washington won permission from the General Court to administer those portions of the
estate vested in the two children. Being their legal guardian was a weighty, timeconsuming task that required Washington to satisfy the court with annual reports
on his ﬁduciary actions. Like every responsibility in his life, Washington executed
this one with the utmost rigor, claiming that a stewardship demanded even more
care from a stepparent than from “a natural parent, who is only accountable to his
own conscience.”14 This arrangement, though it gave Washington extra wealth and
power, also placed him in a curiously subordinate position vis-à-vis his stepchildren, making him effectively their employee and robbing him of the total paternal
authority he might have wished.
Further complicating this strange situation was that while Washington adopted
Jacky and Patsy, they retained the Custis surname. The children arrived at Mount
Vernon with their own slaves—Jacky had a ten-year-old named Julius, Patsy the
twelve-year-old Moll—who wore the formal uniforms known as livery, and it must
have been annoying, if not demeaning, for Washington to have them sporting the
Custis crest instead of his own. In ordering clothing for these servants from London, Washington always gave explicit orders to “let the livery be suited to the [coat

The Man of Mode r! 101

of] arms of the Custis family.”15 Such details of everyday life reminded Washington
of where the real ﬁnancial power resided in his family. In his diary, he sometimes
referred to his stepchildren as “Jacky Custis” and “Patsy Custis,” as if they were temporary visitors.
Although Washington enjoyed children, his formal presence tended to freeze
their jollity. “They felt they were in the presence of one who was not to be triﬂed
with,” said his adopted grandson.16 Washington was a doting father to Patsy, a pretty
girl with dark hair, who was very fond of music. Washington found it easy to spoil
her and soon got her a spinet, an early form of the harpsichord, while Jacky studied
the violin and ﬂute. He also hired a dancing master at Mount Vernon for the two
children. Washington had a more relaxed style with girls and used to say ruefully
that he could govern men but not boys.17 Jacky was to be a chronic problem. A foppish boy, lazy, wayward, and indulged by his mother, he shared few traits with his
energetic stepfather, and their temperamental differences only aggravated matters.
Forever wary of intruding upon Martha’s relationship with her children, Washington was reluctant to apply discipline to Jacky and shielded her from knowledge of
his many imperfections.
However genial as a hostess, Martha was a jittery mother, a mass of anxieties,
much as her own mother had been. She had already endured so many deaths—
her husband, two children, her father, a brother, a sister, and Daniel’s half brother,
Black Jack—that she ﬂew into a panic at even triﬂing signs of illness in her children.
Three years into the marriage, Martha experimented to see whether she could stand
to be away from Jacky. She failed the test miserably. Every time a dog barked or
some other noise occurred, Martha worried that it heralded the arrival of a messenger with dreadful news about her son. “I often fancied he was sick or some accident
had happened to him,” Martha said.18 Henceforth she traveled with George only if
both children came along.
Whatever the periodic tensions caused by Jacky’s lax behavior, the marriage of
George and Martha Washington proceeded happily, and they seemed united by
strong desire and mutual need. Almost all observers found them exceedingly well
matched. In later years the British ambassador’s wife found something closer to
friendship than romance between them—“Washington was a more respectful than
a tender husband certainly”—but even she could identify no quarrels.19 Something
about this deep domesticity and respectability pleased Washington, who was never
cut out for a gallivanting, footloose life. Martha gave him a secure, happy base for
the myriad activities of a busy career. She was his dear companion, trusted adviser,
and conﬁdante long after lust faded, and they delighted in each other’s company.
When Washington was appointed commander in chief of the Continental Army,
he wrote to Martha that “I should enjoy more real happiness and felicity in one

102

r! The Pl a nter

month with you at home than I have the most distant prospect of reaping abroad,
if my stay was to be seven times seven years.”20 Neither George nor Martha was tormented by a romantic striving after an impossible perfection, and both understood
the compromises that accompanied a successful marriage.
While Washington left no direct comments about his marriage, he discussed
marriage in general terms so often—he grew into something of a cracker-barrel
philosopher on the subject—that we can readily infer his views about his own. He
was an unabashed enthusiast for the institution and issued so many paeans to domestic felicity as to leave no doubt of his contentment with Martha. His advice to
young relatives revealed that he had known the storms of passion as a young man
but understood that they were ﬂeeting and couldn’t form the foundation of a lasting relationship; one had to enter into a match based upon practical factors, such
as personality, character, temperament, and money. This seems to reﬂect accurately
the progression of Washington’s own feelings as he and Martha went from early
love (albeit laced with realism about money) to the ripening friendship of later
decades.
Many years later, writing to one of Martha’s granddaughters upon her engagement, Washington warned that romantic love cooled in time. This letter may explain Washington’s ﬁnal preference for Martha Custis over Sally Fairfax.
Do not then, in your contemplation of the marriage state, look for perfect felicity
before you consent to wed. Nor conceive, from the ﬁne tales the poets and lovers of
old have told us of the transports of mutual love, that heaven has taken its abode
on earth. Nor do not deceive yourself in supposing that the only mean[s] by which
these are to be obtained is to drink deep of the cup and revel in an ocean of love.
Love is a mighty pretty thing, but, like all other delicious things, it is cloying. And
when the ﬁrst transports of the passion begin to subside, which it assuredly will do
and yield, oftentimes too late, to more sober reﬂections, it serves to evince that love
is too dainty a food to live upon alone and ought not to be considered farther than
as a necessary ingredient for that matrimonial happiness which results from a combination of causes; none of which are of greater importance than that the object on
whom it is placed should possess good sense, good dispositions, and the means of
supporting you in the way you have been brought up.21

Washington could never have married a poor woman, but neither could he have
tolerated a cold and loveless marriage.
Throughout his life Washington was noticeably attracted to women, but his
steely willpower and stern discipline likely overmastered any fugitive impulses to
stray. Many people observed his gallantry with the ladies. One British ofﬁcer de-

The Man of Mode r! 103

scribed how women left his dining room after meals only to be squired right back
in by Washington. As he recalled, Washington introduced “a round of ladies as soon
as the cloth was removed by saying he had always a very great esteem for the ladies
and therefore drank them in preference to anything else.”22 In corresponding with
women, Washington frequently slipped into a breezily ﬂirtatious tone. When the
widow Annis Boudinot Stockton later sent him an ode in his honor, he encouraged
her to produce more poetry: “You see, madam, when once the woman has tempted
us and we have tasted the forbidden fruit, there is no such thing as checking our
appetites, whatever the consequences may be.”23
In a century of sterling wits, George Washington never stood out for his humor,
but he had a bawdy streak and relished hearty, masculine jokes. In the 1920s the
puritanical J. P. Morgan, Jr., destroyed some letters by Washington that he owned,
claiming they were “smutty.”24 When breeding animals, Washington wrote about
their couplings with dry, facetious mirth. In the 1780s, after the Spanish king sent
him a male donkey nicknamed Royal Gift, he launched an experiment in breeding
mules. Washington noted drolly that the donkey was at ﬁrst indifferent to “female
allurements” and that when he ﬁnally responded, he proceeded with “deliberation
and majestic solemnity to the work of procreation.”25 At the same time he hoped
Royal Gift would catch the democratic spirit in America and “that when he becomes
a little better acquainted with republican enjoyments, he will amend his manners
and fall into a better and more expeditious mode of doing business.”26
Perhaps the earthiest comment Washington ever made about sex occurred
when he learned of the marriage of forty-seven-year-old Colonel Joseph Ward. He
seemed to ﬁnd forty-seven a comically advanced age for matrimony. “I am glad to
hear that my old acquaintance Colo. Ward is yet under the inﬂuence of vigorous
passions,” he told a correspondent. He supposed that Ward, “like a prudent general,” had “reviewed his strength, his arms, and ammunition before he got involved
in an action. But if these have been neglected . . . let me advise him to make the
ﬁrst onset upon his fair del Tobosa [Dulcinea del Toboso, the country girl in Don
Quixote] with vigor that the impression may be deep, if it cannot be lasting or frequently renewed.”27
The marriage thrived even though Martha and George lacked children. Many
theories have been advanced to explain this barren marriage. Martha may have
sustained injury during the birth of Patsy, her ﬁnal child, making additional births
impossible. Some scholars have speculated that George’s early bout of smallpox or
some other disease left him infertile. We know that George Washington didn’t think
he was sterile, because, in writing once to a nephew, he stated that if Martha died
and he remarried, he “probably” wouldn’t have children, but only because he would
marry a woman suitable to his age—obviously implying that he could have chil-

104

r! The Pl a nter

dren with a younger woman.28 The historic stress on the childless marriage has obscured the fact that the Washingtons, far from being lonely, were always surrounded
by children. In the early years at Mount Vernon, there were Jacky and Patsy Custis
and then, in later years, two of Jacky’s children, plus assorted other young relatives,
perhaps numbering a dozen orphaned youngsters in all. This childless couple ran a
household teeming with high-spirited children, which may have been their way of
ﬁlling a perceived void.
Later on Washington’s childless state helped him to assume the title of Father
of His Country. That he wasn’t a biological father made it easier for him to be the
allegorical father of a nation. It also retired any fears, when he was president, that
the nation might revert to a monarchy, because he could have no interest in a hereditary crown. In a draft of his ﬁrst inaugural address, Washington (or his ghostwriter David Humphreys) wrote that “Divine Providence hath not seen ﬁt that my
blood should be transmitted or my name perpetuated by the endearing, though
sometimes seducing, channel of immediate offspring. I have no child for whom I
could wish to make a provision—no family to build in greatness upon my country’s
ruins.”29 Many contemporaries professed to discern heavenly inﬂuence in Washington’s childless state—God’s tacit way of protecting America. As Gouverneur Morris
stated in his eulogy for Washington, “Americans! he had no child but you and he
was all your own.”30

I n m a r ry i ng M a rt h a Cust is , George Washington inherited the posh
commercial connection that Daniel Parke Custis had formed with the top-drawer
London ﬁrm of Robert Cary and Company. That spring Washington sent an authenticated copy of his marriage certiﬁcate to this London agent and advised that
“for the future please to address all your letters which relate to the affairs of the
late Dan[ie]l Parke Custis Esqr. to me.”31 Like his previous London representative,
Richard Washington, Robert Cary and Company were factors who received tobacco
shipments from Virginia plantations, sold them at the best possible price, then used
the proceeds to purchase wares from fashionable London purveyors. The ﬁrm had
also collected dividends for Martha from her former husband’s stock in the Bank
of England. Robert Cary was a larger and more prestigious house than Richard
Washington, providing further proof of Washington’s swift ascent.
Washington’s relationship with Robert Cary formed an integral part of his quest
for reﬁnement. A proﬂigate spender, he promptly placed an order with Cary for a
new bedroom set, complete with a four-poster bed, window curtains, a bedspread,
and four chairs, all upholstered in matching blue and white fabric to give the “uniformly handsome and genteel” effect he desired.32 From this ﬁrst order, it was plain

The Man of Mode r! 105

that the young couple planned to entertain in high style. They ordered a “fashionable set” of dessert glasses, special stands for sweetmeats and jellies, and silver
knives and forks with ivory handles. In this ﬁrst lengthy order, there was also an
ominous hint of early dental trouble for Washington, who ordered from an apothecary on Ludgate Hill six bottles of a special brew concocted to cleanse teeth and
cure toothaches.
In placing orders for goods from London, Washington often employed two adjectives that nicely sum up his taste: neat and fashionable. In the eighteenth century,
the word neat differed subtly from its usage today. According to The Oxford English
Dictionary, neat then meant “characterized by elegance of form without unnecessary embellishment; of agreeable but simple appearance; nicely made or proportioned.” In other words, Washington preferred things that were stylish but subdued,
denoting his worldly status without showily advertising it. Although he never lived
to see England (he told one correspondent in 1760 that he “ardently desired” to go),
this young provincial yearned to resemble the better class of London people.33 In a
typical order to his London agents, he wrote, “I have no doubt but you will choose
a fashionable colored cloth as well as a good one and make it in the best taste.”34
The Virginia planter trusted blindly to the sartorial judgment of his London tailors.
When he ordered “two pair of work[e]d rufﬂes at a guinea each pair,” he added that
“if work[e]d rufﬂes should be out of fashion, send such as are not.”35 After years of a
rough soldierly life, Washington ordered breeches of black silk and crimson velvet.
He was careful, however, to warn against lace or embroidery or anything that might
stereotype him as a fop. Many of his clothing orders stressed practicality. When ordering a blue hooded greatcoat, he requested that it be made “of such cloth as will
turn [away] a good shower of rain.”36
Because he constantly sent his measurements to faraway artisans, Washington
left many precise descriptions of his physique, but his somewhat oddly shaped
body made him the bane of his tailors. His wide hips and powerful thighs caused
the most trouble. In one of many letters about his ill-ﬁtting clothes, he reproached
the tailor in caustic terms: “I desire you to make me a pair of breeches of the same
cloth as my former pair, but more accurately ﬁtting. These breeches must be roomy
in the seat, the buttons ﬁrmly sewn on . . . These breeches must be made exactly to
these measurements, not to those to which you imagine that they may stretch after
a period of use.”37
Like her husband, Martha Washington went on a buying binge after their marriage and ordered a cornucopia of luxury goods, with George drafting the itemized
list to London. She ordered silk stockings, white satin shoes, gold shoe buckles,
beaver hats, and later on, purple kid gloves. She must have been proud of her hair,
for she dressed it with “2 ﬁne ivory combs” and “2 large tortoiseshell combs” as

10 6

r! The Pl a nter

well as gauze caps and “2 pounds of ﬁne perfumed powder.”38 Indeed, portraits of
Martha Washington show that she often ornamented her brown hair with white
beads or pearls.
As Colonel Washington evolved from regimental commander to tobacco planter,
he felt pangs of envy as he watched a succession of British victories in the French
and Indian War. Seventeen ﬁfty-nine was the year, in Horace Walpole’s words, that
British bells were “worn threadbare with ringing of victories.”39 For Washington,
those bells tolled with a somewhat mournful sound. “The scale of fortune in America is turned greatly in our favor and success is become the boon companion of
our fortunate generals,” he told Richard Washington, sounding a bit wistful.40 That
Washington still identiﬁed with the military life and retained some hope of future
battleﬁeld glory is evident in his ordering from Robert Cary six busts of great military ﬁgures in history: Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar, Charles XII of Sweden,
Frederick II of Prussia, Prince Eugene of Savoy, and the Duke of Marlborough.
When his London agents couldn’t ﬁll the order, they came up with an alternate proposal to supply busts of writers ranging from Homer to Shakespeare to Milton. For
the young planter, these literary heroes didn’t quite measure up to famous generals,
and he vetoed the suggestion.
As time passed, a petulant tone crept into Washington’s communications to his
London factors, and he began to rant about the shoddy, overpriced goods fobbed
off on him. The London factors had North American planters at their mercy and
exploited the situation, reminding these consumers that, in the last analysis, they
were powerless colonials. Washington wasn’t the only Virginian grandee to feel resentful toward arrogant British merchants. Buying in London was a slow, tedious
way to do business, hobbled by endless waits for deliveries. When Washington ordered plows from Robert Cary, for example, he found some essential parts missing
and bemoaned that the parts already shipped were “entirely useless and lie upon
my hands a dead charge.”41 Sometimes shipments from London wound up at the
wrong river or arrived damaged. Even the wealthiest Virginians were simply captive
customers.
By nature suspicious of people, Washington experienced a keen sense of injustice. He fretted that Robert Cary was padding his bills and charging exorbitant
prices. Of one early shipment, he grumbled that the “woollens, linens, nails etc. are
mean in quality but not in price, for in this they excel indeed far above any I have
ever had.”42 By the second year of his marriage, his letters to London dripped with
barefaced sarcasm, and he didn’t bother to disguise his belief that he was being
ﬂeeced, telling Robert Cary that “you may believe me when I tell you that instead
of getting things good and fashionable in their several kind, we often have articles
sent us that could only have been us[e]d by our forefathers in the days of yore. ’Tis

The Man of Mode r! 10 7

a custom . . . with many shopkeepers and tradesmen in London, when they know
goods are bespoke for exportation, to palm sometimes old and sometimes very
slight and indifferent goods upon us, taking care at the same time to advance 10, 15,
or 20 p[e]rc[en]t upon them.”43 When the London factors blithely advised him to
return unsatisfactory goods, Washington scoffed that nobody could go a full year
without the required articles. His dealings with Robert Cary opened yet another
chapter of disillusionment with the British whom he had once so admired.
One reason that Washington and other planters submitted to their London
agents was that they offered easy credit unavailable in the colonies. Like many of
his afﬂuent neighbors, Washington was land rich and cash poor and spent a lifetime
scrounging for money. Historians have often pondered the paradox of why rich
Virginia planters later formed a hotbed of revolutionary ferment, and the explanation partly lies in their long, sullen dependence upon London factors. Of four million pounds borrowed by colonists by the outset of the American Revolution, half
was owed by the prodigal farmers of Tidewater Virginia.44 As they gorged on credit,
their luxurious lives rested on a precarious foundation of debt. Virginia borrowers
regularly blamed their London factors for this indebtedness rather than examining
their own extravagant consumption. In piling up excessive debt, they repeated a
vice then rampant among the spendthrift British upper class.
Almost immediately Washington stumbled into the same quagmire of debt that
ensnared many fellow planters. After two years of marriage, he owed a sizable two
thousand pounds sterling to Robert Cary. Eager to play the country squire to the
hilt, he ordered goods from London with a free hand. In a letter to one of his former ofﬁcers in April 1763, Washington complained of being hopelessly indebted to
Robert Cary. In his defense, he pleaded the disorganized state of Mount Vernon
when he returned from the war, the need to buy more land and slaves, and the
expenses of a large family: “I had provisions of all kinds to buy for the ﬁrst two or
three years and my plantations to stock.” Before he knew it, the money he spent on
buildings and other things had “swallowed up . . . all the money I got by marriage,
nay more.”45
The situation deteriorated sharply the following year. Washington was congenitally prickly about money, and Robert Cary aggravated matters by being too quick
to dun him for funds. In August 1764 Washington reacted to a call for more money
by blaming “mischances rather than misconduct” for the repeated failures of his
tobacco crops. He was outraged that Cary would pester him the second he lagged
on his payments. “I did not expect that a correspondent so steady and constant as
I have proved . . . would be reminded in the instant it was discovered how necessary it was for him to be expeditious in his payments,” he complained. Unlike some
patrician debtors, Washington was uneasy carrying so much debt, reminding his

10 8

r! The Pl a nter

London creditor that “it is but an irksome thing to a free mind to be any ways
hampered in debt.”46 In subsequent letters to London, Washington’s fury fairly exploded off the page. When he sent a large shipment of tobacco the following year,
he was aghast at the poor prices that Robert Cary fetched for him and accused the
ﬁrm of securing better deals for other Virginia planters. “That the sales are pitifully low needs no words to demonstrate,” he wrote. “And that they are worse than
many of my acquaintance upon this river Potomac have got in the outposts . . . is a
truth equally as certain.” Washington blustered that it might be “absolutely necessary for me to change my correspondence unless I experience an alteration for the
better.”47
For the rest of his life, Washington was vehement on the subject of debt and frequently lectured relatives about its dangers. Even though he scapegoated creditors
for his own debt, it is clear from later letters that he searched his soul long and hard
on the subject. Decades later he admonished one nephew that “there is no practice
more dangerous than that of borrowing money . . . for when money can be had in
this way, repayment is seldom thought of in time . . . Exertions to raise it by dint
of industry ceases. It comes easy and is spent freely and many things indulged in
that would never be thought of, if to be purchased by the sweat of the brow. In the
mean time, the debt is accumulating like a snowball in rolling.”48 Washington spoke
knowingly, as only a reformed sinner can do as he reviews past transgressions.

chapter ten

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

A Certain Species of Property

For t h e f i r s t si x y e a r s of m a r r i age , as he devoted mounting resources to growing tobacco, George Washington was a hostage to the fortunes of
that ﬁckle crop. As noted, he had returned from his military adventures to discover
Mount Vernon, under brother Jack’s supervision, in a scandalous state of disrepair.
While off in the western hinterlands, he found it impossible to monitor business
activities at home, which must have been profoundly distressing for someone of
his meticulous work habits. As he worked to remedy matters, restocking the plantation and constructing new buildings, he ended up squandering part of Martha’s
fortune.
Though an inexperienced planter, the enterprising Washington was determined to produce high-quality tobacco, and to that end he expanded his acreage
and revealed a scientiﬁc bent as he dabbled with different varieties. Always receptive to innovation, he pored over agricultural treatises and experimented with
oats, wheat, and barley, planted in soil from various corners of his property. Only
in retrospect did he perceive the folly of staking his future on tobacco. The soil at
Mount Vernon, he duly learned, had “an under stratum of hard clay impervious
to water,” washing away the thin topsoil and leaving behind “eyesore gullies.”1 It
posed insuperable challenges for a novice planter who had to contend with several
seasons of drought and heavy rain, which only compounded the runoff problem.
Besides poor topography, Washington also had to contend with ﬂuctuating tobacco prices—under imperial law, all sales went through England—and he never
knew what his crops would fetch until he heard back from London. With hindsight, it is easy to fault his emphasis on tobacco, but the crop was so omnipresent

1 10

r! The Pl a nter

in Virginia that planters paid taxes with it and engaged in an intense rivalry to
produce superior leaves.
In the 1760s Washington’s letters on his tobacco trade often read like one long
jeremiad. He started out with a bumper crop of 147,357 pounds in his ﬁrst year of
marriage, only to be repeatedly victimized by the vagaries of weather. “We have had
one of the most severe droughts in these parts that ever was known and without a
speedy interposition of providence (in sending us moderate and refreshing rains
to mollify and soften the earth), we shall not make one ounce of tobacco this year,”
he reported to Robert Cary in 1762.2 The next year his wheat crop was attacked by
a fungus known as rust, while his Indian corn and tobacco were choked by weeds
and grass spawned by incessant rains. The mediocre quality of his leaves further
depressed the price his tobacco drew in London, making it impossible to pare down
debt. At melancholy moments Washington sounded as if the elements conspired
to punish his crops. In August 1765 he noted that the Mount Vernon soil had been
parched since May because of drought, while a mere ten miles away the weather
was “perfectly seasonable” and his neighbors had “promising crops of corn and
tobacco.”3
Perhaps the most pernicious aspect of tobacco culture was its labor-intensive
nature, making it a natural match with slavery. No aspect of his life would so trouble Washington or posterity as his status as a major slave owner. Had he not started
with tobacco, he might never have become so enmeshed with a reprehensible system that he learned to loathe. Slaves were ubiquitous in this rich, populous colony,
making up 40 percent of Virginia’s population. In fact, slavery had acquired such a
ﬁrm grip on the colony that one minister maintained in 1757 that “to live in Virginia
without slaves is morally impossible.”4
Washington’s opposition to slavery took the form of a gradual awakening over
many decades. He seldom uttered the word slavery, as if it grated on his conscience,
preferring polite euphemisms such as “servants,” “Negroes,” “my people,” or “my
family.” Like other slaveholders, the young Washington talked about slaves as simply another form of property. He was cold-blooded in specifying instructions for
buying slaves, telling one buyer, as if he were purchasing a racehorse, that he wanted
his slaves “to be straight-limbed and in every respect strong and likely, with good
teeth and good countenances.”5 He favored adolescent females who could maximize the number of slave children, urging one planter who owed him money to
sell some slaves in the fall “when they are fat and lusty and must soon fall of[f]
unless well fed.”6 In this savage world, planters posted slaves as collateral for loans,
and Washington upbraided one debtor for asking him to rely upon “such hazardous and perishable articles as Negroes, stock, and chattels.”7 With another debtor,
he threatened that, without speedy payment, “your Negroes must be immediately

A Certain Species of Property r! 1 1 1

exposed to sale for ready money after short notice.” In his diary, he often wrote of
being “at home all day alone” when he was surrounded by slaves in the mansion
and ﬁelds.
However horrifying it seems to later generations, abominable behavior toward
dark-skinned people was considered an acceptable way of life. In 1767, when four
slaves were executed in Fairfax County for supposedly colluding to poison their
overseers, their decapitated heads were posted on chimneys at the local courthouse
to act as a grim warning to others. Nobody protested this patent atrocity. At the
same time, slave masters in the eighteenth century seldom rationalized or romanticized slavery as a divinely sanctioned system, as happened before the Civil War.
Washington, Jefferson, Madison, and other Virginia planters acknowledged the immorality of slavery, while confessing perplexity as to how to abolish it without producing mayhem and ﬁnancial ruin. When denouncing British behavior on the eve
of the American Revolution, Washington made clear the degrading nature of the
system when he said that, if the colonists tolerated abuses, the British “will make us
as tame and abject slaves as the blacks we rule over with such arbitrary sway.”8
The black population at Mount Vernon grew apace after Washington’s marriage as he purchased slaves aggressively to keep pace with his widening economic
activities. During the ﬁrst year of his marriage, he acquired 13 slaves, then another
42 between 1761 and 1773. Since he paid taxes on slaves older than twelve years of
age, we know that he personally owned 56 slaves of working age in 1761, 62 in 1762,
78 in 1765, and 87 in 1770.
Whether from humane considerations or merely from regard for property,
Washington was tireless in his medical treatment of slaves; his diaries are loaded
with references to doctors, and even to Washington himself, tending sick slaves.
During the frosty ﬁrst winter of his marriage, he grew alarmed by the death of four
slaves by late January, three of them dower slaves from the Custis estate. As in the
army, whenever trouble struck, Washington didn’t shirk personal involvement. His
direct management style became manifest that spring when smallpox cropped up
at his western plantation on Bullskin Creek. At once he hastened off to Frederick
County and was startled to ﬁnd that two slaves, Harry and Kit, had already died,
and that everything lay “in the utmost confusion, disorder and backwardness.”9
He rushed off to nearby Winchester to secure blankets and medical supplies, summoned a nurse, and instructed his overseer to quarantine slaves with smallpox. By
the Revolutionary War, Washington made a regular practice of inoculating slaves
against smallpox. The standard method was to scrape contaminated matter from
the pustules of a victim with a mild case of smallpox, then slip it on a thread under
the skin of the inoculated person. This produced a mild case of the disease, which
prevented the more virulent form.

112

r! The Pl a nter

In written agreements with new overseers, Washington exhorted them to treat
ailing slaves with a modicum of kindness. In 1762 a new overseer, Nelson Kelly, had
to agree “that he will take all necessary and proper care of the Negroes committed to his management, treating them with humanity and tenderness when sick.”10
There seems little doubt that Washington was motivated by human sympathy as
well as proﬁt in caring for sick slaves. During his ﬁrst term as president, he urged
his estate manager to have overseers pay special heed to sick slaves, “for I am sorry
to observe that the generality of them view these poor creatures in scarcely any
other light than they do a draft horse or ox, neglecting them as much when they are
unable to work, instead of comforting and nursing them when they lie on a sickbed.”11 Possibly because of his scrupulous care of sick slaves, Washington frequently
complained about those who feigned illness. When he thought a slave named Sam
was faking illness, he ordered his estate manager to “examine his case . . . but not by
the doctor, for he has had doctors enough already of all colors and sexes and to no
effect. Laziness is, I believe, his principal ailment.”12
Another area of plantation life where Washington’s behavior was comparatively
humane, within the overall context of an inhumane system, was in his studious
refusal to break up slave families. Although slave marriages were not sanctioned
by law, Washington treated them as binding and sacrosanct. In time, he refused
to sell slaves if it meant separating families. Slaves who wished to marry slaves
from other plantations needed Washington’s permission, but we have no evidence
he ever denied it. That he felt a paternalistic responsibility toward his slaves was
shown dramatically in his ﬁnal years when a slave named Fanny was bedridden
for a week after being beaten by her husband Ben, a slave on another plantation.
Washington, livid, forbade Ben to set foot at Mount Vernon on pain of whipping.
Four years later Fanny married another slave.13 When Washington contemplated
selling off slaves during the Revolution, he expressed reluctance to do so, then told
his manager that “if these poor wretches are to be held in a state of slavery, I do not
see that a change of masters will render it more irksome, provided husband and
wife and parents and children are not separated from each other, which is not my
intention to do.”14 Although he stopped buying slaves in 1772, his slave population
swelled from natural increase so that he owned 135 able-bodied slaves when tapped
to head the Continental Army. Ironically, his growing scruples about slavery and
his refusal to break up families by selling them off saddled him with a fast-growing
slave community.
Thanks to pioneering research at Mount Vernon in recent years, we have obtained a much more vivid sense of slave life there. The very design of the estate
made it arduous for slaves to maintain families. Mount Vernon came to consist of
ﬁve farms: the Mansion House Farm (what tourists think of today as Mount Ver-

A Certain Species of Property r! 1 13

non) and four satellite farms: Dogue Run, Muddy Hole, Union, and River. Many
Mansion House slaves were either household servants, dressed in brightly colored
livery of scarlet coats and white waistcoats, or highly skilled artisans; these last were
overwhelmingly male, while the four distant farms held mostly ﬁeld hands who,
contrary to stereotype, were largely female. This sexual division meant that only
a little more than a third of Washington’s slaves enjoyed the luxury of living with
their spouses and children. Since the slaves worked a grueling six-day week, from
sunup to sundown, they had to tramp long distances on Saturday evening or Sunday to visit their far-ﬂung families.15 It speaks volumes about the strength and tenacity of slave families that two-thirds of the adults remained married despite such
overwhelming obstacles.
We know that Mary Washington was tightﬁsted in treating slaves; one neighbor
remembered her as “more given to housewifery, and to keeping their servants at
their proper business and in their proper places than to any unnecessary forms of
etiquette.”16 Thomas Jefferson thought that Washington had inherited that autocratic style. “From his childhood, [Washington] always ruled and ruled severely,”
Jefferson was later quoted as saying. “He was ﬁrst brought up to govern slaves, he
then governed an army, then a nation.”17 For the most part, Washington dealt with
slaves through overseers whom he prodded to “be constantly with your people . . .
There is no other sure way of getting work well done and quietly by negroes, for
when an overlooker’s back is turned, the most of them will slight their work or be
idle altogether.”18
Under Virginia law, slaveholders could freely abuse or even murder their slaves
in punishing misbehavior and still avoid legal repercussions. Washington believed
that whipping slaves was counterproductive and tried to restrain such brutality. As
he lectured one estate manager, it “oftentimes is easier to effect [change] by watchfulness and admonition than by severity and certainly must be more agreeable
to every feeling mind in the practice of them.”19 Overseers were required to issue
warnings to wayward slaves before ﬂogging them. In theory, they couldn’t apply the
lash to slaves unless they ﬁrst secured written permission from Washington, but
due to his extended absences from Mount Vernon, the rule wasn’t always obeyed.
“General Washington has forbidden the use of the whip on his blacks,” a French
visitor to Mount Vernon later averred, “but unfortunately his example has been
little emulated.”20 He wanted his overseers to be strict, not cruel. Whether on the
plantation, in the army, or in government, he stressed the need to inspire respect
rather than affection in subordinates, a common thread running through his vastly
disparate managerial activities.
Washington insisted that overseers track slaves closely during workdays that
could stretch up to sixteen hours in summertime. He constantly reprimanded them

114

r! The Pl a nter

for being drunk, lazy, or inattentive to their duties. Often feeling burdened by the
expense and difﬁculty of dealing with white overseers, he turned to slave overseers,
and at one point blacks supervised three of his ﬁve farms.
Washington prided himself on being ﬁrm but fair-minded, leading his adopted
granddaughter to say later, “He was a generous and noble master and [the slaves]
feared and loved him.”21 His presidential secretary, Tobias Lear, said of Mount Vernon, “The negroes are not treated as blacks in general are in this country. They are
clothed and fed as well as any laboring people whatever and they are not subject
to the lash of a domineering overseer—but they are still slaves.”22 Several observers
noted that Washington, with perfect self-control in public, could ﬂare up with servants in private. During his presidency the wife of the British ambassador remarked
that Washington “acquired a uniform command over his passions on public occasions, but in private and particularly with his servants, its violence sometimes
broke out.”23 One cabinet secretary talked of Washington’s reputation for “warm
passion and stern severity” with his servants.24 Another observer was taken aback
by how grufﬂy the tactful president addressed his slaves, “as differently as if he had
been quite another man or had been in anger.”25 Still another Mount Vernon guest
noted how exquisitely attuned the slaves were to the master’s moods: “His servants
seemed to watch his eye, and to anticipate his every wish; hence, a look was equivalent to a command.”26 It should be said that if Washington displayed an irritable
style with his slaves, he could also be short-tempered with his military and political
subordinates.
Slavery presented special challenges to a hypercritical personality like Washington, for the slaves had no earthly reason to strive for the perfection he wanted.
However illogical it might seem, he expected them to share his work ethic and was
perturbed when they didn’t follow his industrious example. Feeling entitled to extract the maximum amount of work from slaves, he advised one overseer that “every
laborer (male or female)” should do “as much in the 24 hours as their strength, without endangering their health or constitution, will allow of.”27 Not surprisingly, his letters contain frequent references to slaves whom he saw as indolent or prone to theft,
and he never regarded such behavior as rational responses to bondage. Reproaching
his slave carpenters, he said, “There is not to be found so idle a set of rascals.”28 Of a
slave named Betty who worked as a spinner in the mansion, he complained that “a
more lazy, deceitful and impudent hussy is not to be found in the United States.”29
He talked caustically about malingering slaves as if they were salaried workers who
had failed to earn their wages—a blind spot he never entirely lost.
Fond of system and efﬁciency, Washington was stymied by his slaves’ inability
to meet his high standards. Once in February 1760 he was dismayed to ﬁnd that
four slave carpenters had jointly hewn only 120 feet of poplar logs that day. Like a

A Certain Species of Property r! 1 15

modern efﬁciency expert, he sat down, consulted his watch, and clocked them in
a time-and-motion study. The master’s presence instantly stimulated the slaves to
quadruple their output to 125 feet of timber apiece. Once he had solved the motivational mystery, Washington wondered about the material being used. “It is to be
observed here that this hewing and sawing likewise was of poplar,” he wrote in his
diary. “What may be the difference therefore between the working of this wood and
[an]other some future observations must make known.”30 It is easy to see how the
methodical Washington, with his excellent business mind, would have found infuriating an economic system that naturally discouraged hard work.
Male slaves at the Mansion House enjoyed accommodations superior to those
of slaves at the outlying farms. They likely had better quarters because they were
often trained artisans and lived within eyeshot of family members and visitors. At
a later period many inhabited a large brick building with glazed windows that was
divided into four rooms and ﬁtted out like an army barrack, with bunks lining
the walls. In the four remote farms, slaves were jammed into small, one-room log
cabins, crafted ﬂimsily from sticks cemented with mud. A Polish nobleman who
admired Washington was taken aback by these squalid hovels. “We entered one of
the huts of the blacks, for one cannot call them by the name of houses. They are
more miserable than the most miserable of the cottages of our peasants. The husband and wife sleep on a mean pallet, the children on the ground; [there is] a very
bad ﬁreplace, some utensils for cooking, but in the middle of this poverty, some
cups and a teapot.”31
Each slave received one set of new clothes per annum—a woolen jacket, a pair
of breeches, two shirts, a pair of stockings, and a pair of shoes—often made from a
coarse brown linen called osnaburg. Slave women received an annual petticoat and
smock. Some slaves also had Sunday outﬁts of dark coats with white vests and white
breeches. Every day the slaves received approximately one quart of Indian cornmeal, and every month twenty salted herrings, which sounds like a terribly meager
ration. “It is not my wish or desire that my Negro[e]s should have an ounce of meal
more, nor less, than is sufﬁcient to feed them plentifully,” Washington told his estate
manager.32 Recent archaeological work at Mount Vernon has revealed that the slave
diet was not entirely bleak. On Sundays Washington allowed slaves to borrow his
large nets, or “seines,” to ﬁsh in the Potomac. At least one elderly slave named Father Jack kept a canoe on the river and supplied ﬁsh to others. Archaeologists have
identiﬁed bones from sixteen types of ﬁsh in the cellar of the main slave residence.
Washington also distributed to the slaves meat left over from his table, innards of
hogs slaughtered on the estate, surplus ﬁsh from his ﬁshery, and buttermilk left
after the milk was churned.
The most intriguing archaeological ﬁnd has been the discovery of lead shot

1 16

r! The Pl a nter

and gun ﬂints, showing that Washington allowed selected slaves to keep ﬁrearms
and hunt wild game in the woods. The remains of ﬁfty-eight animal species have
been identiﬁed in the slave cellar. The slaves could either eat the game or sell it to
the master’s table. Washington’s adopted grandson remembered how a slave named
Tom Davis hunted duck on the Potomac with his Newfoundland dog and brought
down with his musket “as many of those delicious birds as would supply the larder
for a week.”33 This made up part of a strictly limited market economy at Mount
Vernon in which Washington allowed slaves to till their own garden plots, keep
poultry, and sell eggs, chicken, fruits, and vegetables. On Sunday mornings he even
permitted them to travel with passes to nearby Alexandria and peddle their wares
in the open marketplace. This freedom of movement enabled Washington’s slaves
to meet and marry slaves on other plantations.
That the slaves at Mount Vernon could move about without supervision runs
counter to the common view of slavery as a system enforced only by the daily terror
of whips and shackles. Like other major planters, Washington owned more slaves
than his overseers could effectively monitor, and so the only way to control a captive population was to convince them that runaways would be severely punished.
Virginia had perfected a system of terror for capturing fugitive slaves. Under a 1748
law, a master could seek out two justices of the peace and have them issue a proclamation against runaways. To give the slaves fair warning, the proclamation had to
be posted on church doors throughout the county. If the slave still didn’t surrender,
the law said that “it shall be lawful for any person . . . to kill and destroy such slaves
by any ways or means, without accusation or impeachment of any crime for the
same.”34
If Washington, with few exceptions, avoided inﬂicting harm on captured runaways, he showed notable zeal in hunting them down, and the problem consumed
considerable time. The scholar Philip Morgan has computed that Washington had
forty-seven runaway slaves over the years, or 7 percent of the total population.35 A
year after his marriage Washington pursued a runaway named Boson and wound
up paying a ten-shilling bounty to a slave from another plantation who recaptured
him. Many slaves who ﬂed were favorites of George and Martha Washington, who
invariably reacted with a sense of shock and betrayal. In his diary for 1761, Washington recorded deep concern for the fate of a slave named Cupid, who had recently
arrived from Africa, scarcely spoke English, and had contracted pleurisy. The master made a point of dropping in to inquire after Cupid’s health and in one diary entry wrote anxiously that “when I went to bed, I thought [Cupid] within a few hours
of breathing his last.”36 Notwithstanding this special care, Cupid subsequently ran
away with three other slaves named Peros, Jack, and Neptune. On August 11, 1761,
Washington placed a fugitive slave advertisement in the Maryland Gazette, noting

A Certain Species of Property r! 1 1 7

that they had escaped “without the least suspicion, provocation, or difference with
anybody, or the least angry word or abuse from their overseers.”37
Washington’s description of the four slaves showed that he didn’t see them as an
indistinguishable mass but as a collection of distinct individuals. Of Peros he said
that he was thirty-ﬁve to forty years old, had a “yellowish complex[ion] with a very
full round face and full black beard,” and wore “a dark colored cloth coat, a white
linen waistcoat, white breeches and white stockings.”38 He added that the runaway
slave spoke decent English, had shed much of his African dialect, and was “esteemed
a sensible, judicious Negro.”39 Of Cupid, Washington noted that “the skin of his face
is coarse and inclined to be pimply.”40 Two of the slaves showed recent African ancestry, having been scariﬁed by their tribes. Jack had “cuts down each cheek bearing his country marks,” while Neptune had “his teeth straggling and ﬁled sharp.”41
Washington offered a forty-shilling reward for the recovery of all four men.
Unless they proved repeat offenders, Washington usually forgave runaways who
were brought back to Mount Vernon. He accepted the return of the “sensible, judicious” Peros without reprisals, only to have him ﬂee again in 1770. In general,
Washington didn’t have the stomach for the more odious forms of punishment.
On occasion, however, he resorted to the grisly penalty of selling refractory slaves
in the Caribbean, where they faced hard labor and almost certain death as they
toiled in sweltering sugarcane brakes. In July 1766 Washington meted out this unspeakable fate to a “healthy, strong” young slave named Tom whom he described
as “both a rogue and runaway.”42 He assigned him to Captain Josiah Thompson,
whose schooner Swift was sailing for St. Kitts. Washington told the skipper to keep
Tom handcuffed until they got to sea and that if he was “kept clean and trimmed
up a little when offered to sale,” he might reap a good price.43 From the proceeds,
Washington hoped to receive one hogshead of molasses and one of rum, along with
a barrel of limes and a pot of tamarinds. On at least two other occasions, Washington exported recalcitrant slaves to the Caribbean and brandished the threat of
doing so to intimidate others.
In colonial Virginia the property of debtors, including slaves, was often sold at
tavern lotteries, amid a jovial, high-spirited atmosphere, as a way of making partial
repayment to creditors. In December 1769 Washington cosponsored a lottery in
Williamsburg for the estate of one Bernard Moore, who had defaulted on a large
loan from the Custis estate. For ten pounds, a sporting investor could purchase a
chance to win parcels of Moore’s land or some ﬁfty-ﬁve slaves divided into thirtynine lots. The most desirable male slaves were sold with their families intact, while
other slave families were broken up indiscriminately. It is hard to imagine anything that more starkly contradicted Washington’s stated policy of preserving slave
families than rafﬂing them off in this public manner. With some justice, Henry

118

r! The Pl a nter

Wiencek has written that Washington “reached a moral nadir” with the Bernard
Moore lottery.44 The editors of Washington’s papers have noted that in the 1760s he
“frequently bought tickets for lotteries,” although the Bernard Moore case seems to
be the only one in which he acted as an organizer.45
Fortunately, such notorious cases were the exception. George and Martha
Washington worked in close proximity with their slaves and knew many of them
individually. That George Washington acknowledged the humanity of some slaves
is seen in his remarkably affectionate, long-standing relationship with his manservant William Lee. At a slave auction in 1768, Washington paid top dollar to a Mrs.
Mary Lee of Westmoreland County for two mulatto brothers, William and Frank
Lee, and then groomed William (also called Billy or Will) as his personal servant. A
dark-skinned mulatto, Billy Lee was a short, compact, powerfully built young man
with a gift for gab, a rich fund of anecdotes, and a wealth of opinions. A real daredevil as a horseman, he shadowed Washington in every major activity of his life and
was an indispensable asset during the foxhunting season. Billy Lee combined in his
person the job of Washington’s valet, butler, and waiter. Whether Washington was
trotting off to the House of Burgesses, the Continental Congress, or Valley Forge,
Lee was the trusted aide in attendance. A New England visitor noted his singular
place among Washington’s slaves: “His servant Billy, the faithful companion of his
military career, was always at his side.”46 Lee was one of the few slaves allowed the
dignity of a last name, conﬁrming his special standing.
Slavery was woven into every aspect of Mount Vernon life, even for visitors.
“Everyone felt himself at home and had a negro servant to wait on him and supply
his wants,” wrote an admiring English visitor.47 Often the ﬁrst sight that greeted
visitors was slave children playing near the front of the mansion, and Washington
frequently grumbled that they disturbed his shrubs. He had a dozen house servants
outﬁtted in livery ordered from Robert Cary in London. Breechy served dinner
while Doll cooked it, assisted by the scullion Betty. Jenny and Mima washed and
ironed, while Betty and Moll assisted Martha with sewing. Mulatto Jack served as
general handyman. Never an idle mistress, Martha Washington oversaw a sewing
circle of slaves who manufactured much of the estate’s clothing. She kept this up
even in later years, when one visitor painted this domestic scene: “Then we repaired
to the old lady’s room, which is . . . nicely ﬁxed for all sorts of work. On one side sits
the chamber maid with her knitting, on the other a little colored pet, learning to
sew, an old, decent woman with her table and shears cutting out the negroes’ winter clothes, while the good old lady directs them all, incessantly knitting herself.”48
Martha Washington treated the slaves well and became fond of many of them but
tolerated no shirkers and expected loyalty and affection from her favorites.
A master of the proﬁtable use of time, Washington listed his monthly doings in

A Certain Species of Property r! 1 19

his diary under the rubric “Where and how my time is spent.” Whether for business
or social occasions, his punctuality was legendary, and he expected everyone to be
on time. In his business dealings, he boasted that “no man discharges the demand
of wages or fulﬁlls agreements with more punctuality than I do.”49 Preoccupied
with timepieces throughout his life, Washington aspired to stand at the center of
an orderly, clockwork universe. He accorded the sundial a central spot on his mansion lawn, as if to suggest that everything hinged on the proper allotment of time;
invariably he glanced at it when returning home from rides. As president, he loved
to employ his leisure time by strolling over to see his Philadelphia watchmakers.
“No one ever appreciated better than General Washington the value of time and the
art of making use of it,” recalled a French businessman.50 His love of ritual, habit,
and order enabled him to sustain the long, involved tasks that distinguished his life.
“System in all things is the soul of business,” he liked to say. “To deliberate maturely
and execute promptly is the way to conduct it to advantage.”51
Washington beneﬁted from the unvarying regularity of his daily routine and
found nothing monotonous about it. Like many thrifty farmers, he rose before
sunrise and accomplished much work while others still slept. Prior to breakfast,
he shufﬂed about in dressing gown and slippers and passed an hour or two in his
library, reading and handling correspondence. He also devoted time to private
prayers before Billy Lee laid out his clothes, brushed his hair, and tied it in a queue.
Washington liked to examine his stables before breakfast, inspect his horses, and
issue instructions to the grooms. Then he had an unchanging breakfast of corn
cakes, tea, and honey.
After breakfast Washington pulled on tall black boots, mounted his horse, and
began the prolonged circuit of his ﬁve farms, where he expected to ﬁnd hands hard
at work. Once again, he was a diligent boss, not a gentleman farmer. Each day he
rode twenty miles on horseback and personally supervised ﬁeld work, fence construction, ditch drainage, tree planting, and dozens of other activities. An active
presence, he liked to demonstrate how things should be done, leading by example. One startled visitor expressed amazement that the master “often works with
his men himself, strips off his coat and labors like a common man.”52 Washington
couldn’t bear anything slovenly. “I shall begrudge no reasonable expense that will
contribute to the improvement and neatness of my farms, for nothing pleases me
better than to see them in good order and everything trim, handsome, and thriving
about them,” he advised one estate manager. “Nor nothing hurts me more than to
ﬁnd them otherwise and the tools and implements laying wherever they were last
used, exposed to injuries from rain, sun, etc.”53 No detail was too trivial to escape his
notice, and he often spouted the Scottish adage “Many mickles make a muckle”—
that is, tiny things add up.54

120

r! The Pl a nter

Washington made sure that he returned for dinner precisely at 2:45 p.m. when
the ﬁrst bell sounded for the large midday meal. According to legend, the clatter
of his approaching hooves often coincided with the bell’s loud clang. Washington
then washed, dressed, powdered his hair, and appeared in the dining room by the
stroke of three. He preferred a dinner of ﬁsh from the Potomac and typically ate
with a hearty appetite. In this heavy-drinking era, he could polish off three or four
glasses of an amber-colored wine known as Madeira without being thought a heavy
drinker. The cloth was then removed, and Washington would lift his glass with his
habitual toast to “All our friends.” He then retired to his library before a light supper. Before going to bed at nine o’clock, he would often read aloud to the family
from the newspaper or from sermons on Sunday evenings or join in a game of cards
or backgammon.
To maintain a detailed grasp of his vast operations, Washington kept comprehensive records long before such bookkeeping was commonplace. Being a farmer,
he scratched out a daily log of the weather, but his record keeping went far beyond
such basics. “He also makes copious notes in writing relative to his own experiments, the state of the seasons, nature of soils, effect of different kinds of manure,
and everything that can throw light on the farming business,” wrote his later aide
David Humphreys.55 Everything was perfectly sorted, classiﬁed, and slotted in his
compartmentalized mind and books. Washington’s contemporaries recognized
that this compulsive note taking, this itch to record his every action, went to the
very essence of this well-regulated man. “You would be surprised to ﬁnd what a
uniform life he leads,” wrote John Hancock’s nephew after a visit to Mount Vernon.
“Everything he does is by method of system . . . He keeps a journal where he records
everything . . . he is a model of the highest perfection.”56

chapter eleven

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

T he Prodigy

L ong be for e he achieved great fame or renown, something about Washington’s bearing and presence bedazzled people. In common with other well-bred boys
of his day, he probably wore a corset as a small child, which pulled his shoulders
back and thrust his chest out, giving him added dignity. Like a ﬁgure strutting on
a stage, he never lounged or slouched and seemed as comfortable in a ballroom as
on a battleﬁeld. Properly appareled on all occasions, he never allowed people to see
him in a neglected state, much less undressed, and ordered clothes that gave him
elegance with freedom of movement. In ordering a suit from London, he admonished his tailor to “make it in the best taste to sit easy and loose, as clothes that are
tight always look awkward and are uneasy to the wearer.”1 In the manner of European royalty, he never seemed to hurry. The impression fostered by his imposing
physique, joined with his upright, virile carriage and natural aplomb, marked him
out as a natural leader.
Much of the power of Washington’s presence derived from his ﬂuid gait, the
antithesis of the stiff, wooden image Gilbert Stuart grafted on the American imagination. The quintessential man of action, he moved like a national icon long before
he became one. The sculptor William Rush recalled his smooth, unrufﬂed movements: “I have been in battle immediately under his command. I have viewed him
walking, standing, sitting. I have seen him at a game of ball for several hours,” and
in all these activities he exhibited “the most manly and graceful attitudes I ever
saw.”2 Washington was, quite simply, a sight to behold. “So tall, so straight!” one
servant remembered. “And . . . with such an air! Ah, sire, he was like no one else!”3
At Williamsburg, he exuded a special splendor with his ceremonial sword riding on

122

r! The Pl a nter

his hip, while showing the light, conﬁdent tread of the military man. If much of this
gracefulness came naturally to Washington, some of it likely came from strenuous
youthful efforts to form himself for polite society as he acquired the easy manner
and erect posture that distinguished a gentleman.
George and Martha Washington were a sociable couple who entertained an unending cavalcade of guests at Mount Vernon. During the seven years before the
American Revolution, they fed (and frequently housed) an estimated two thousand guests.4 One visitor murmured his approval at how cordially Washington had
treated him “as if I had lived years in his house.”5 Washington was an excellent host
of a certain sort. He was congenial without being deeply personal, friendly without
being familiar, and perfected a cool sociability that distanced him from people even
as it invited them closer. He never felt the urge to impress people. As John Marshall
wrote, “He had no pretensions to that vivacity which fascinates, and to that wit
which dazzles.”6 He knew the value of silence, largely kept opinions to himself, and
seldom committed a faux pas.
Very concerned with winning the approval of others, Washington tended his
image with extreme care, suggesting a self-conscious insecurity about how people
perceived him. Peter Henriques has commented on Washington’s “intense fear of
failure” and the hundreds of times the word approbation crops up in his letters.7
Since he struck people as stern and grave, pleasant and affable at once, he seemed
to embody Benjamin Franklin’s maxim “Let all men know thee, but no man know
thee thoroughly.” People sensed the turbulent, buried emotions within him and
occasionally glimpsed their raw power. One stage actor who visited Mount Vernon
said that Washington had “a compression of the mouth and [an] indentation of the
brow . . . suggesting habitual conﬂict with and mastery over passion.”8
During the American Revolution, some ofﬁcers claimed that they never saw
Washington smile. If he seldom submitted to belly laughs, he was never as dour
as legend claims. Said one perceptive former slave: “I never see that man laugh to
show his teeth—he done all his laughing inside.”9 If laughter didn’t come readily
to Washington, it could be coaxed out of him after several glasses of wine, when
he fell into the uproarious spirit of a dinner party. James Madison later noted that
while Washington didn’t tell funny stories, he responded when others did: “He was
particularly pleased with the jokes, good humor, and hilarity of his companions.”10
Washington was also more unbuttoned at the theater. “You would seldom see a
frown or smile on his countenance, his air was serious and reﬂecting,” wrote one
observer, “yet I have seen him in the theater laugh heartily.”11
Acutely aware of being a provincial subject in a remote corner of the British
Empire, Washington sometimes sounded an apologetic, self-deprecating note when
writing to London. When he invited his British factor, Richard Washington, to visit

The Prodigy r! 1 23

Mount Vernon, he said, “We have few things here striking to European travelers
(except an abundant woods) but a little variety, a welcome reception among a few
friends, and the open and prevalent hospitality of the country in general.”12 With
his emphasis on self-improvement, Washington trained himself to play the gentleman in polite drawing rooms and among the highly educated. People sensed something a bit studied about his behavior and suspected, correctly, that the manner
was partly learned. The British ambassador’s wife noted that he had “perfect good
breeding and a correct knowledge of even the etiquette of a court,” but how he had
acquired it, “heaven knows.”13 Washington exempliﬁed the self-invented American,
forever struggling to better himself and rise above his origins.
While Washington cultivated friendships throughout his life, he didn’t have
many true intimates and his relationships were seldom of the candid or confessional type. His reserve, if not impenetrable, was by no means lightly surrendered.
He was habitually cautious with new people and only gradually opened up as they
passed a series of loyalty tests. “Be courteous to all but intimate with few,” he advised his nephew, “and let those few be well tried before you give them your conﬁdence. True friendship is a plant of slow growth.”14 Because Washington never
invited people readily into his conﬁdence, it had a nearly irresistible appeal when
he did. He tended to be much more conversational among those he trusted and
taciturn with strangers.
In a world not far removed from the frontier, Washington’s physical strength
and dexterity won many admirers. He knew that he was a physical prodigy and enjoyed displaying this with exhibitionistic ﬂair. When he painted Washington in 1772,
Charles Willson Peale observed an instance of Washington’s herculean strength that
he never forgot:
One afternoon, several young gentlemen, visitors at Mount Vernon, and myself
were . . . pitching the bar . . . when suddenly the colonel [Washington] appeared
among us. He requested to be shown the pegs that marked the bounds of our efforts;
then, smiling, and without putting off his coat, held out his hand for the missile. No
sooner did the heavy iron bar feel the grasp of his mighty hand than it lost the power
of gravitation . . . striking the ground far . . . beyond our utmost limits. We were indeed amazed, as we stood around, all stripped to the buff . . . having thought ourselves very clever fellows, while the colonel, on retiring, pleasantly observed, “When
you beat my pitch, young gentlemen, I’ll try again.”15

A nice touch that he didn’t bother to take off his jacket, as if to underscore his effortless feat. While Washington never threw a silver dollar across the Potomac, as
legend asserts, he did hurl a rock to the top of the Natural Bridge in the Blue Ridge

124

r! The Pl a nter

Mountains, a height of 215 feet. Although boasting was always foreign to Washington’s nature, after the Revolution he conﬁded to David Humphreys that “he never
met any man who could throw a stone to so great a distance as himself.”16
In an age that gloried in horse racing and hunting as gentlemanly pursuits,
Washington’s virtuosity with horses excited comment throughout his life. Thoroughbred horses were especially prized in Virginia, where they literally elevated
masters above their slaves. Jefferson extolled Washington as “the best horseman
of his age and the most graceful ﬁgure that could be seen on horseback,” an appraisal echoed by many others.17 Ramrod straight and relaxed on horseback, he
seemed taller in the saddle than anyone else, exhibiting perfect ease and projecting
a magnetic air. Favored with long legs and broad, powerful hips, he could wrap
himself around the smaller breeds of horses common in the eighteenth century. It
is no coincidence that Washington has been commemorated by so many equestrian
statues. “He is a very excellent and bold horseman,” noted a French admirer, the
Chevalier de Chastellux, “leaping the highest fences and going extremely quickly
without standing upon his stirrups, bearing on the bridle, or letting his horse
run wild.”18 Chastellux said Washington rode fast even when he was in no special
hurry—something that added dash and drama to his movements. He broke and
trained his own horses and retained mastery over them. One witness recollected
how when Washington dismounted, he “gave a cut of the whip to his horse, which
went off by itself to the stable.”19 Washington wrote with affection about horses,
and when one man agreed to sell him his favorite horse, he responded gratefully.
“The attachment which one feels for a good horse that has . . . been considered as a
favorite, I know is very great.”20
An avid hunter, Washington keenly stalked foxes, deer, ducks, quail, pheasant,
and even occasional bears on his estate. He hunted in a handsome outﬁt, a blue
riding frock and scarlet waistcoat threaded with gold lace and topped by a black
velvet cap. He wore high boots and carried a smart-looking riding crop, decorated
in a herringbone pattern. So much did Washington adore the sport that he papered
his mansion with hunting prints. On hunting days, his ritual was to rise before
sunrise, breakfast by candlelight, then ride off with his hounds while it was still
dark outside. Invariably he was accompanied by Billy Lee, who got Washington
to stop hunting black foxes and stick to gray ones after one black fox eluded them
on an exhausting chase; Lee averred that there was something diabolical about the
cunning black fox.
For a man of Washington’s stern work ethic, it is striking how much time he
dedicated to hunting, even in the dead of winter. Though he enjoyed ﬁshing, it
never matched his consuming interest in chasing animals. In January 1769, for
example, he went foxhunting eight times in a twelve-day period even though the

The Prodigy r! 1 25

ground was packed hard with frost. During the foxhunting season, certain favored
guests turned into semipermanent residents of Mount Vernon, staying for weeks
at a time.
A lusty hunter, Washington often recorded in his diary the length of the chase
and a description of the fox. It was not unusual for the hunt to occupy an entire day.
“Hunting again,” he wrote in March 1768, “and catched a fox with a bobbed tail and
cut ears after 7 hours chase in w[hi]ch most of the dogs were worsted.”21 A month
earlier, he recorded that he had killed ﬁve mallards and ﬁve bald eagles in one day—a
curious triumph for the Father of His Country. Washington’s ﬁerce, relentless energy, cloaked in social encounters, emerged clearly in warfare and hunting. He liked
to ride up ahead with the hounds and be present for the kill. Washington kept his
hounds kenneled down by the Potomac and developed a breed that became known as
the American foxhound. Protective of his hunting grounds, he was implacable when
dealing with poachers. One day when out riding, he encountered a poacher who was
furtively slipping away in a canoe. “Raising his gun,” recounts a neighbor, the poacher
“took deliberate aim at Washington, expecting to daunt him; but Washington dashed
up to the culprit, and seizing his canoe, dragged it ashore. He then disarmed him and
gave him a severe ﬂogging, which effectually cured his thieving properties.”22
Another area where Washington demonstrated uncommon agility was in dancing. Because colonial social life revolved around fancy balls and assemblies, gentlemen were expected to master reels, jigs, and minuets. An exceptionally graceful
dancer, Washington ﬂourished in such society, not only because he presented an
image of strength and poise on the dance ﬂoor—one lady recalled that he was “a
ceremonious and grave” partner—but also because it allowed some harmless interactions with the ladies.23 It was the one venue where Martha permitted him to
indulge his penchant for gallantry with younger women.
Among the chief diversions of Washington’s social life was the theater. During
stays in Williamsburg, he attended everything from concerts to waxworks to puppet shows, though nothing matched his sheer delight in a good play. Many scholars
have noted the abundant theatrical imagery in his writings, as when he advised a
young relative that he was about to “enter upon the grand theater of life.”24 The
recurrence of such metaphors says something not only about Washington’s love of
theater but about his awareness of the dramatic nature of his life and the eventful
times through which he passed. He would play many roles in his lifetime, always
with consummate ﬂair. That he turned to theater imagery when aiming at a high
rhetorical pitch suggests that he saw himself as the protagonist of a great epic, dazzling an audience that had its eyes peeled on his every action.
Two touring companies, the American Company and the Virginia Company,
performed at the Williamsburg theater and usually timed their visits to coincide

126

r! The Pl a nter

with meetings of the burgesses. They offered surprisingly rich and varied fare, running the spectrum from Shakespeare to Restoration comedy to Augustan drama
to contemporary plays. During one busy week in June 1770, Washington attended
the theater ﬁve nights out of seven. The unremitting emphasis on Joseph Addison’s
Cato as being Washington’s favorite play—partly because it was performed at Valley
Forge, partly because it ﬁt the stereotype of Washington as the stoic Roman—has
obscured his love of many other plays, especially ribald and sophisticated comedies.
The play that he probably saw and savored the most was Richard Sheridan’s racy
The School for Scandal. He also quoted Shakespeare frequently, and his letters are
ﬁlled with passing references to Hamlet, Othello, The Merchant of Venice, and The
Tempest. Not surprisingly, in wartime, he plucked timely quotes from the Roman
and history plays, including Julius Caesar, Antony and Cleopatra, and Henry V.
From Washington’s correspondence with his London factors, what emerges
clearly is that he didn’t relegate social duties to his wife, but took an active part in
ordering food, drink, and furnishings for all occasions. He wanted Mount Vernon
to conform to the highest standards of elegance, and he studied how other people
entertained. A telling diary entry, dated a year after his marriage, shows how observant he was of other people’s parties and how scornful of anything that struck him
as slovenly or vulgar:
Went to a ball at Alexandria, where music and dancing was the chief entertainment.
However, in a convenient room detached for the purpose abounded great plenty of
bread and butter, some biscuits with tea, and coffee which the drinkers of cou[l]d not
distinguish from hot water sweetened. Be it remembered that pocket handkerchiefs
served the purposes of tablecloths and napkins and that no apologies were made for either. I shall therefore distinguish this ball by the style . . . of the Bread and Butter Ball.25

Washington’s diaries from the 1760s attest to a crowded social calendar and
show how George and Martha Washington absorbed Sally Fairfax into their lives as
a dear friend. Given her close proximity at Belvoir, it would have been difﬁcult to
keep her at arm’s length. Instead, Sally came and went freely at Mount Vernon, and
her husband remained one of Washington’s favorite hunting partners. The Washingtons were likewise regular visitors at Belvoir. In January 1760 Sally came to visit
Martha, who was then recuperating from the measles. Three years later George
wrote to inquire about an illness that Sally had contracted and said Martha “was in
hopes of seeing Mrs Fairfax this morning,” until she herself came down with a fever.26 Martha Washington could never have befriended Sally Fairfax in this manner
unless she thought that the earlier romance with her husband had been an ephemeral, youthful infatuation that had now receded to a safe distance.

ch ap ter t w elv e

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Providence

Th e mo st spl e n di d s tage on which George Washington paraded in his early
years was the colonial capital at Williamsburg, now overseen by Lieutenant Governor Francis Fauquier—the “ablest man who had ever ﬁlled that ofﬁce,” in Jefferson’s view—a charming man of eclectic interests who was a fellow of the Royal
Society and had published papers on science and economics.1 The town, which was
characterized by “the manners and etiquette of a court in miniature,” according to
Washington, stood forth as a glittering symbol of British royalty, a showplace of
surface brilliance whose major social priorities were “precedence, dress, imitation.”2
To jaded European eyes, Williamsburg might have appeared small and prosaic, but
its handsome government buildings, formal gardens, and spacious streets with
brick sidewalks surpassed anything seen in rural Virginia.
In October 1760 Martha asked her husband if she could join him for the upcoming session at the House of Burgesses, and they traveled there in the full regalia
of rich tobacco planters—a coach and six, with uniformed slaves riding as coachman and postilion. Once at the capital, Washington lodged on the most fashionable
thoroughfare, Duke of Gloucester Street. For ten years he stayed in the hostelry of
a diminutive widow, Christiana Campbell, “a little old woman about four feet high
and equally thick, [with] a little turn[ed] up pug nose, [and] a mouth screw[e]d up
to one side,” as one Scottish traveler sketched her.3
That October Washington arrived in Williamsburg amid much jubilation. In
early September the French had surrendered to British forces at Montreal, bringing to a close the conquest of Canada and leading Fauquier to declare, somewhat
prematurely, that “the war is gloriously brought to a happy end.”4 The festive tone

128

r! The Pl a nter

proved transitory. On October 25, 1760, George II, the only king George Washington
had ever known, died and gave way to a new monarch. On February 11 Fauquier announced the accession to the throne of George III, whose reign would be bedeviled
by George Washington and an army of renegade soldiers. The tidings of a new king
had immediate repercussions for Washington, since it meant that the old House of
Burgesses would be dissolved and new elections held.
Four days later Washington learned of an unexpected challenge to his seat. Lieutenant Colonel Adam Stephen had fought with Washington at Fort Necessity and
in the ill-fated Braddock expedition and wound up as second in command in the
Virginia Regiment. More recently Washington and Stephen had sparred during an
intense scramble for western lands. In 1754, to spur lagging recruitment, Governor Dinwiddie had promised bounty lands in the Ohio Country to war veterans,
and Washington had formed a partnership with three veterans—Robert Stewart,
George Mercer, and Nathaniel Gist—to accumulate such land. They competed with
a rival partnership led by Adam Stephen, who in later years, in a conversation with
Dr. Benjamin Rush, viliﬁed Washington as a “weak man.”5 Washington, for his part,
castigated his quondam friend Stephen as “designing” and unprincipled.6
On February 15, 1761, Captain Stewart relayed word to Washington from Winchester that Stephen was “incessantly employed” in campaigning for one of the two
seats from Frederick County. For two years Washington and Thomas Bryan Martin
had held those seats, but Martin had now decided to retire, prompting Washington’s former aide and new partner, George Mercer, to run in his stead. Adam Stephen evidently denigrated Washington as the handpicked candidate of the wealthy
landowners, for Stewart told Washington that “the leaders of all the patrician families remain ﬁrm in their resolution of continuing for you,” while Stephen issued
demagogic appeals for “the attention of the plebeians, whose unstable minds are
agitated by every breath of novelty, whims, and nonsense.”7
Washington was sufﬁciently alarmed by Stephen’s election bid that, uncharacteristically, he stooped to an unscrupulous stratagem to win. The episode shows
that at twenty-nine he still hadn’t learned to curb his more assertive impulses. He
urged the sheriff who oversaw the election, Captain Van Swearingen, to favor his
candidacy with a blatantly unfair tactic. Because there was no secret ballot and
people openly voiced their votes, it was hugely advantageous for candidates if the
ﬁrst voters favored them, stimulating a bandwagon effect. While disclaiming that
he was doing this, Washington planted the idea in the sheriff ’s mind: “I hope and
indeed make no doubt that you will contribute your aid towards shutting [Stephen] out of the public trust he is seeking.” Then Washington suggested that if pro–
Washington and Mercer voters were “hurried in at the ﬁrst of the poll, it might be
an advantage. But as sheriff, I know you cannot appear in this, nor would I by any

Providence r! 1 2 9

mean[s] have you do anything that can give so designing a man as Colo. Stevens the
least trouble.”8 If Washington took an ethical shortcut here, he wanted to keep up
appearances and pretend that he wasn’t.
Washington’s trick seemed to work like a charm: of the ﬁrst ﬁfteen people to
announce their vote, fourteen were Washington partisans and twelve also voted for
George Mercer. The favoritism was so palpable that Washington’s brothers Jack and
Samuel were the ﬁrst two people to vote, while his brother-in-law, Fielding Lewis,
his friend Dr. Craik, and his brother Charles lagged not far behind. When the ﬁnal
count was tallied, Washington had 505 votes, Mercer 400, and Stephen 294. Washington, feigning aristocratic indifference to the outcome, told a visitor a few weeks
later, “I deal little in politics.”9
In mid-May 1761, about the time of this election, Washington came down with
a “violent cold” and intermittent fever that he couldn’t shake despite frequent doctor visits and doses of dried bark from the cinchona tree, called Jesuit’s or Peruvian
bark, then used to treat malaria. The disease was so widespread in Virginia that
colonists spoke darkly of the “intermittent months” of late summer and early fall
when epidemics grew commonplace. In late July Washington despaired of getting
any useful advice from Virginia doctors, telling an English friend, “I have found so
little beneﬁt from any advice yet received that I am more than half of the mind to
take a trip to England for the recovery of that invaluable blessing—health.”10
In August Washington sought the therapeutic powers of the mineral waters at
Berkeley Springs, where he had gone with his consumptive brother Lawrence. By
this point Washington had likely assumed the classic look of a malaria victim: pale
face with pinched features and dark circles beneath the eyes. At this uncouth spa,
he found 250 men and women “full of all manner of diseases and complaints.”11
The long ride and sultry weather exhausted him and made his sleep ﬁtful, but he
responded well to the waters and hoped they would cure him. Nevertheless, back at
Mount Vernon in late September, he again grew ill and complained that he hadn’t
been able to transact business since April. To Richard Washington, he confessed
that the malady had nearly been fatal. “Since my last [letter] of the 14th July, I have
in appearance been very near my last gasp. The indisposition then spoken of increased upon me, and I fell into a very low and dangerous state. I once thought the
grim king would certainly master my utmost efforts and that I must sink in spite of
a noble struggle, but thank God I have now got the better of the disorder and shall
soon be restored I hope to perfect health again.”12 In November the conscientious
Washington dragged himself off to Williamsburg to attend the House of Burgesses,
only to skip an important session because he was too weak. Although he overcame
the malaria after a gruesome six or seven months, the parasites were never fully
eradicated from his system and ﬂared up again repeatedly in later years.

130

r! The Pl a nter

No sooner had Washington rebounded from his illness than he had to bury
his half brother Augustine, who at forty-one perpetuated the mournful tradition
of Washington men dying young. Augustine had never been as close to George as
Lawrence had been, but he had always written warmly to his younger half brother.
Although he had suffered terribly from gout for years and had traveled to England
in a vain quest to regain his health, Augustine had reassured George two years earlier that “I am at this time in a better state of health than I have been for the last
seven years” and that he hoped to visit Mount Vernon in warm weather “such as
will suit my gouty joints.”13 The early deaths of his father and two older half brothers, none of whom reached ﬁfty, could only have heightened Washington’s already
considerable sense of mortality after he celebrated his thirtieth birthday.
In October 1762 Washington became a vestryman of Truro Parish, a post he
held for twenty-two years. The twelve-man vestry oversaw the temporal affairs of
the church at Pohick, which formed part of the Anglican, or “established,” Church.
During the next decade Washington performed standard vestry duties, such as
helping to pay the minister, balance the church budget, choose a site for a new
church, scrutinize its construction, and select furnishings for the communion table.
When the new church was completed, he bought two pews and contributed funds
to buy gold leaf for religious inscriptions emblazoned across the altarpiece. Washington also served three terms as churchwarden, a post in which he helped to care
for poor people and orphans. Because Mount Vernon sprawled into Fairfax Parish
as well, Washington bought another pew at Christ Church in Alexandria and joined
the vestry there too. Washington’s extensive church activities schooled him in selfgovernment and provided him with plenty of administrative experience.
Many mysteries have surrounded George Washington’s religious beliefs. A pair
of notable acquaintances raised questions about his faith. Thomas Jefferson once
remarked cynically that Washington “has divines [ministers] constantly about him
because he thinks it right to keep up appearances but is an unbeliever.”14 Jefferson
contended that when Washington stepped down as president, a group of clergymen presented him with a list of requests to bolster public faith in Christianity;
they noted he had refrained from public endorsements of the tenets of Christianity
and beseeched him to declare openly his beliefs. According to Jefferson, “the old
fox was too cunning” for the preachers and replied to all their points except the
one about his personal faith.15 (It should be said that Jefferson’s source, Dr. Ashbel
Green, later insisted that Jefferson had garbled the story.) Bishop William White
of Pennsylvania, Washington’s pastor during his presidency in Philadelphia, also
stated, “I do not believe that any degree of recollection will bring to my mind any
fact which would prove General Washington to have been a believer in the Christian revelation.”16

Providence r! 13 1

From family recollections, it seems indisputable that Washington grew up in a
household steeped in piety. Mary Ball Washington was extremely devout and did
not hesitate to invoke the aid of Jesus. “She was in the habit of repairing every day to
a secluded spot, formed by rocks and trees near to her dwelling, where, abstracted
from the world and worldly things, she communed with her Creator in humiliation
and prayer,” Washington’s adopted grandson wrote.17
A stalwart member of two congregations, Washington attended church
throughout his life and devoted substantial time to church activities. His major
rites of passage—baptism, marriage, burial—all took place within the fold of the
church. What has mystiﬁed posterity and puzzled some of his contemporaries was
that Washington’s church attendance was irregular; that he recited prayers standing
instead of kneeling; that, unlike Martha, he never took communion; and that he
almost never referred to Jesus Christ, preferring such vague locutions as “Providence,” “Destiny,” the “Author of our Being,” or simply “Heaven.” Outwardly at least,
his Christianity seemed rational, shorn of mysteries and miracles, and nowhere did
he directly afﬁrm the divinity of Jesus Christ.
Numerous historians, viewing Washington as imbued with the spirit of the Enlightenment, have portrayed him as a deist. Eighteenth-century deists thought of
God as a “prime mover” who had created the universe, then left it to its own devices, much as a watchmaker wound up a clock and walked away. God had established immutable laws of nature that could be fathomed by human reason instead
of revelation. Washington never conformed to such deism, however, for he resided
in a universe saturated with religious meaning. Even if his God was impersonal,
with scant interest in individual salvation, He seemed to evince a keen interest in
North American politics. Indeed, in Washington’s view, He hovered over many
battleﬁelds in the French and Indian War and the Revolutionary War. His inﬂuence
was especially manifest during stirring patriotic victories and hairbreadth escapes
from the enemy. Convinced that his life had been spared for some larger purpose,
Washington later expressed gratitude to Providence, “which has directed my steps
and shielded me in the various changes and chances through which I have passed
from my youth to the present moment.”18 Throughout his life he descried signs of
heavenly approbation and seemed to know that he operated under the overarching
guidance of a benign Providence.
Many of Washington’s eminent contemporaries, ranging from Marshall to
Madison, regarded him as “a sincere believer in the Christian faith, and a truly devout man,” as Marshall attested.19 Some of Washington’s religious style probably
reﬂected an Enlightenment discomfort with religious dogma, but it also reﬂected
his low-key personal style. He was sober and temperate in all things, distrusted zealotry, and would never have talked of hellﬁre or damnation. He would have shunned

132

r! The Pl a nter

anything, such as communion, that might ﬂaunt his religiosity. He never wanted
to make a spectacle of his faith or trade on it as a politician. Simply as a matter of
personal style, he would have refrained from the emotional language associated
with evangelical Christianity. This cooler, more austere religious manner was commonplace among well-heeled Anglicans in eighteenth-century Virginia.
Washington’s pastor at Pohick Church before the war conﬁrmed that he “never
knew so constant an attendant at church as Washington.”20 His early biographer
Jared Sparks recorded this comment from Washington’s nephew George W. Lewis:
“Mr. Lewis said he had accidentally witnessed [Washington’s] private devotions in
his library both morning and evening; that on those occasions he had seen him in
a kneeling position with a Bible open before him and that he believed such to have
been his daily practice.”21 General Robert Porterﬁeld recalled that when he delivered an urgent message to Washington during the Revolutionary War, he “found
him on his knees, engaged in his morning’s devotions.” When he mentioned this
to Washington’s aide Alexander Hamilton, the latter “replied that such was his constant habit.”22 Washington’s adopted granddaughter saw his self-effacing religiosity
as consistent with a hatred of pretension: “He was not one of those who act or pray
‘That they may be seen of men.’”23 Numerous people left vignettes testifying to
Washington’s simple faith. On the other hand, he lacked a speculative bent and was
never one to ponder the ﬁne points of theology.
One thing that hasn’t aroused dispute is the exemplary nature of Washington’s
religious tolerance. He shuddered at the notion of exploiting religion for partisan purposes or showing favoritism for certain denominations. As president, when
writing to Jewish, Baptist, Presbyterian, and other congregations—he ofﬁcially saluted twenty-two major religious groups—he issued eloquent statements on religious tolerance. He was so devoid of spiritual bias that his tolerance even embraced
atheism. When he needed to hire a carpenter and a bricklayer at Mount Vernon,
he stated that “if they are good workmen,” they could be “Mahometans, Jews, or
Christian of any sect, or they may be atheists.”24 He took pleasure in dropping by
Sunday services of other denominations. In Bishop White’s words, “If there was no
Episcopal Church in the town in which he happened to be, he would attend the
services of any other denomination with equal cheerfulness.”25
Washington loathed religious fanaticism, and on that subject he sounded like
a true student of the Enlightenment. “We have abundant reason to rejoice that, in
this land, the light of truth and reason has triumphed over the power of bigotry
and superstition,” President Washington wrote to one Baltimore church.26 “Religious controversies are always productive of more acrimony and irreconcilable
hatreds than those which spring from any other cause.”27 A convinced supporter
of the separation of church and state, Washington declared that “no man’s senti-

Providence r! 133

ments are more opposed to any kind of restraint upon religious principles than
mine are.”28
However ecumenical in his approach to religion, Washington never doubted its
signal importance in a republic, regarding it as the basis of morality and the foundation of any well-ordered polity. “Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to
political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports,” he declared
in his farewell address.29 For Washington, morality was so central to Christianity’s
message that “no man who is proﬂigate in his morals or a bad member of the civil
community can possibly be a true Christian.”30
That Washington believed in the need for good works as well as faith can be
seen in his extensive charity. George and Martha Washington never turned away
beggars at their doorstep. “Let the hospitality of the house with respect to the poor
be kept up,” Washington informed his estate manager after being named commander of the Continental Army. “Let no one go hungry away . . . provided it does
not encourage them in idleness.”31 The Washingtons tried to practice anonymous
charity even when it would have been politically expedient to advertise it loudly.
Washington’s secretary, Tobias Lear, recorded hundreds of individuals, churches,
and other charities that, unbeknownst to the public, beneﬁted from presidential
largesse. Even leftovers from the executive mansion were transferred to a prison
for needy inmates. Washington had particular sympathy for those imprisoned for
debt and gave generously to an organization—later called the Humane Society of
the City of New York—that was formed to assist them. He took a special interest in
the care and education of orphaned and indigent children and turned into a major
benefactor of the Alexandria Academy, established for that purpose.
Washington’s generosity toward friends, neighbors, and relatives could be quite
breathtaking. With typical muniﬁcence, he paid for the education of several children of his friend Dr. Craik. In 1768, when his friend William Ramsay encountered
ﬁnancial difﬁculties, Washington remembered that he had expressed a wish to send
his son to the College of New Jersey (later Princeton). He therefore volunteered
to donate twenty-ﬁve pounds per annum to educating the young man there. In
making the offer, Washington told Ramsay, “No other return is expected or wished
for . . . than that you will accept it with the same freedom and goodwill with which
it is made and that you may not even consider it in the light of an obligation or
mention it as such, for be assured that from me it will never be known.”32 The biographer Douglas Southall Freeman calls this lovely comment “the most generous
sentence” that ever ﬂowed from Washington’s pen.33 On countless occasions Washington served as an executor for friends and family members, with many such commitments costing him years of backbreaking legal work. It should also be noted that
Washington was community-minded long before he entered national politics. Like

13 4

r! The Pl a nter

his forebears, he held multiple public ofﬁces as a young man, becoming a justice of
Fairfax County and a trustee of Alexandria in the 1760s.
George Washington always seemed in quiet revolt against the licentious Virginia
culture of his upbringing. Many fellow planters, addicted to pleasure, thrived on
a constant round of parties, dances, horse races, cockﬁghts, boat races, and card
playing. Washington was a far more driven and disciplined man than most of his
neighbors, and his hardworking existence stood in stark contrast to their indolent
ways. He was guided by a code of conduct that was crystal clear to him and that
he frequently enunciated to young relatives. A man with a powerful conscience, he
always feared that he was being watched from afar and made sure his conduct could
stand up to the most severe critical standards.
Washington was moralistic about several vices ubiquitous in Tidewater Virginia: excessive drinking (he enjoyed drinking in moderation), gambling, smoking,
and profanity. It is revealing that this famous Virginian later considered sending his
adopted grandson to Harvard rather than to a Virginia college, because “the greater
attention of the people [there] generally to morals and a more regular course of
life [makes them] less prone to dissipation and debauchery than they are at the
colleges south of it.”34 One of his duties as a Truro Parish churchwarden was to
dispatch to the county court those guilty of gambling, drinking, profanity, breaking
the Sabbath, and “certain other offences against decency and morality.”35 It would
have suited Washington’s moralistic nature to pack off these offenders to condign
punishment. The control of disruptive urges, for himself and others, always formed
a central theme of his life.
Later on Washington developed a strong aversion to gambling, but it was likely
the vice that most tempted his proper, upstanding nature. He had grown up in a
rafﬁsh world where men gambled constantly at cards and billiards in smoky taverns
and bet on races and cockﬁghts. “Gambling is amazingly prevalent in Williamsburg,” one northern visitor exclaimed.36 Right before his marriage, Washington ordered from London a mahogany card table, two dozen packs of playing cards, and
two sets of counters for quadrille, a popular card game. He enjoyed playing loo
and whist for money and recorded small sums won and lost at cards and billiards,
down to the last pence. His papers contain a fascinating list showing his cardplaying expenses for 1772–74, revealing frequent indulgence. In Williamsburg, in the
single month of May 1772, he gambled a dozen times, winning four times and losing
eight. The following month he played six times and lost on ﬁve occasions—perhaps
why his subsequent entries grew more infrequent. Washington even gambled once
during the First Continental Congress in Philadelphia, walking away with seven
pounds.
One wonders whether this detailed list simply reﬂected Washington’s compul-

Providence r! 135

sive record keeping or whether it was a way to monitor a perceived moral failing.
In 1783 he wrote to his nephew Bushrod and inveighed against gambling as one of
many snares that trip up unsuspecting youths, his ﬂorid language suggesting that
he knew about gambling from personal experience or close observation. “It is the
child of avarice, the brother of inequity, and father of mischief. It has been the ruin
of many worthy families, the loss of many a man’s honor, and the cause of suicide.
To all those who enter the list, it is equally fascinating. The successful gamester
pushes his good fortune till it is overtaken by a reverse. The losing gamester, in
hopes of retrieving past misfortunes, goes on from bad to worse.”37
Washington had a far better record in controlling other urges. After a period in
which he smoked his own tobacco in long-stemmed clay pipes, he seems to have
forsworn the habit altogether. His swearing was so infrequent that people commented on it when it happened. Even though he took several glasses of wine with
dinner, this was considered acceptable in an age of immoderate alcohol consumption. He once complained that Williamsburg’s social life was a continual round of
dinners and that “it was not possible for a man to retire sober.”38 After the Revolutionary War, he told one visitor with evident relief that Virginians were “less given
to intoxication; . . . it is no longer fashionable for a man to force his guests to drink
and to make it an honor to send them home drunk.”39
Whether hiring overseers or appointing army ofﬁcers, Washington insisted
upon sobriety and saw no greater sign of weakness than a man’s inability to control
his drinking. Alcoholism was a chronic problem that he had to combat among the
hired help at Mount Vernon. On one occasion he capitulated to the drinking of a
talented gardener whose sprees he agreed to tolerate so long as the man conﬁned
them to certain holidays. In his employment contract, Washington stated that he
would be given “four dollars at Christmas with which to be drunk four days and
four nights; two dollars at Easter, to effect the same purpose; two dollars at Whitsuntide to be drunk for two days; a dram in the morning and a drink of grog at
dinner at noon.”40 It was typical of Washington’s thoroughness to pin down such
an agreement in writing.

chapter thirteen

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

A World of His Own

I n 1763 the end of the French and Indian War appeared to foreshadow a halcyon
season of peace and prosperity for the colonies, but the troubled aftermath sowed
the seeds of conﬂict twelve years later. The national debt of Great Britain, inﬂated
by military spending, had swollen to a stupendous 130 million pounds, with annual
interest payments of 4.5 million pounds engrossing more than half the national
budget. To shift this tax burden to its North American subjects, the British government introduced a stamp tax and other hated measures that ignited an insurrection
in the colonies. At the same time, having banished the French from Canada, the war
eliminated the colonists’ need for imperial protection to the north.
The Crown’s postwar policy caused colonists to feel penalized by a victory
to which they had contributed. It outlawed the printing of paper money by the
colonies—London merchants fretted over their losses from such depreciated
paper—making currency scarce in Virginia. George Washington, suddenly unable
to collect money from strapped debtors, predicted that the ban on colonial money
might “set the whole country in ﬂames.”1 Washington’s ﬁrst stirrings of anti-British
fervor had arisen from his failure to receive a royal commission, but they were now
joined by disenchantment over pocketbook issues. Great Britain was simply bad for
local business, a fact that would soon foster the historical anomaly of a revolution
inaugurated by afﬂuent, conservative leaders. As potentates of vast estates, lords of
every acre they saw, George Washington and other planters didn’t care to truckle to
a distant, unseen power.
Perhaps the most incendiary colonial resentment related to land policy, the
wartime victory having liberated the acquisitive urges of speculators. In May 1763

A World of His Own r! 13 7

Washington joined nine other investors in a plan to drain the Great Dismal Swamp
in southeastern Virginia and turn it into lucrative farmland. United in a syndicate,
Adventurers for Draining the Dismal Swamp, these speculators hoped to bypass
royal regulations that restricted grants of Crown lands to one thousand acres per
individual. To circumvent this limit, they manufactured 138 bogus names when they
submitted their land petition in Williamsburg. Washington, with a fertile mind for
development, envisioned that the ditch employed to drain the swamp could also
serve as a canal leading to Norfolk, a farsighted plan ﬁnally realized in 1828. Like
every economic activity in Virginia, the Dismal Swamp project relied on slave labor,
and Washington contributed six slaves.
The natural vitality of the Virginia economy, combined with dynamic population growth, ensured unstoppable westward expansion. On September 9, 1763,
Washington and nineteen other entrepreneurs banded together to launch the Mississippi Land Company, which hoped to claim 2.5 million acres of land in the Ohio
Valley. This gargantuan chunk of real estate would encompass sections of what
later became Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky, and Tennessee. The shortsighted
British preferred to save the fur trade with the Indians and, by a royal proclamation
on October 7, 1763, banned settlers from regions west of the Allegheny Mountains.
The Crown rationalized this policy by saying it was easier to defend subjects in
seaport cities, but in a colony obsessed with real estate speculation, it was a catastrophic blunder to conﬁne settlers to the eastern seaboard. The end of the war had
no sooner disclosed tempting glimpses of riches than colonial masters in London
snatched them away. Fearful that his western bonanza might evaporate, Washington condemned the move. “I can never look upon that Proclamation in any other
light than as a temporary expedient to quiet the minds of the Indians,” he said.2 For
Washington, the infamous decree was doubly damaging because it interfered with
the bounty claims of veterans from the Virginia Regiment. To nobody’s surprise,
settlers from Germany, Ireland, and elsewhere continued to spill into the Ohio Valley in a resistless tide.
As early as May 1764, reports reached Virginia that Parliament was hatching a
tax to force colonists to defray wartime costs and pay for future protection. This
violated a long-standing tradition of reserving taxing powers to colonial legislatures. Convinced that they were heavily taxed already, a committee of burgesses
protested to the king that December, issuing an appeal that grounded their opposition in hallowed English liberties. They pleaded for protection “in the enjoyment of
their ancient and inestimable right of being governed by such laws respecting their
internal polity and taxation as are derived from their own consent.”3 Deaf to these
earnest pleas, Parliament in 1765 enacted the Stamp Act, which taxed legal documents, newspapers, almanacs, and even playing cards.

13 8

r! The Pl a nter

The response was immediate and full-throated in its militance. In the House
of Burgesses, a young rabble-rouser, Patrick Henry, rose amid the dark wooden
benches and brandished ﬁery resolutions. “Resolved,” he announced, “that the taxation of the people by themselves or by persons chosen by themselves to represent
them . . . is the distinguishing characteristic of British freedom.”4 For a young law
student standing in the rear of the hushed chamber, these words sounded with a
thrilling resonance. “He appeared to me to speak as Homer wrote,” Thomas Jefferson remembered.5 For some staid burgesses, Henry’s remarks seemed excessively
inﬂammatory. “Tarquin and Caesar each had his Brutus,” Henry roared in response
to them, “Charles the First his Cromwell, and George the Third—” He was interrupted by cries of “treason” from Washington’s longtime patron, Speaker Robinson,
who was enthroned in his lofty chair. Legend asserts, although many scholars now
dispute, that Henry retorted, “If this be treason, make the most of it.”6
In all likelihood, Washington had returned to Mount Vernon by the time these
electrifying words shook the chamber. He was about to set out for Williamsburg in
late July 1765 when he learned that Governor Fauquier, alarmed that Massachusetts
legislators had invited the burgesses to send a delegation to New York to protest the
Stamp Act, had summarily terminated the session. Of this decision, Washington
surmised, “I am convinced . . . that the Governor had no inclination to meet an
Assembly at this juncture.”7 For Fauquier, this Stamp Act Congress represented a
blatant act of sedition, and he had no intention of allowing burgesses to participate. After he dissolved the assembly and held new elections, Washington used the
opportunity to switch his seat from Frederick County to Fairfax County, closer to
home. Until this point, Washington had mostly striven to please his royal masters
in London, and he still had little patience with radicals who wanted to seize and
incinerate the stamps, especially when a Williamsburg mob set upon his colleague
George Mercer and burned him in efﬁgy after he returned from England holding
the despised post of stamp collector for the colony.
Nevertheless, angry feelings festered inside George Washington, and they
erupted that September in a caustic letter to Robert Cary that showed how longstanding personal grievances were being transmuted into burning political causes.
For the ﬁrst eight paragraphs, Washington roundly chastised his London factors
for the inferior prices his tobacco fetched and the shoddy, overpriced goods he
had to swallow in return. When he turned to the Stamp Act, he wrote with almost
gleeful vengeance. Distancing himself from “the speculative part of the colonists,”
who regarded “this unconstitutional method of taxation as a direful attack upon
their liberties,” he made it plain that he disagreed with their methods, not their
opinions.8 In threatening terms, he said the eyes of the colonists were beginning
to open as they realized they could boycott British luxury goods by devising do-

A World of His Own r! 139

mestic substitutes, and he forecast that courts would be shut down, since England
had starved the colonists of currency with which to pay the stamp tax. With courts
closed, he hardly needed to add, British creditors would be unable to collect from
their American debtors.
The young man who had worked so hard to ingratiate himself with his superiors in the British Army was suddenly breathing ﬁre. Washington was always reluctant to sign on to any cause, because when he did so, his commitment was total.
Just as he predicted, some colonial courts were shut down by the Stamp Act, leaving
British creditors enraged. Washington wasn’t the only one who found the Stamp
Act a piece of self-destructive folly. In the House of Commons, Benjamin Franklin
was asked how British soldiers sent to enforce the new taxes would be received.
“They will not ﬁnd a rebellion,” he replied curtly. “They may indeed make one.”9
When the Stamp Act was repealed the following year, Washington told his London
agent bluntly that if Parliament had remained mired in this error, the consequences
“would have been more direful than is generally apprehended both to the mother
country and her colonies.”10 The repeal had no lasting effect in the colonies, since it
coincided with passage of the Declaratory Act, which denied that the emboldened
colonies possessed any exclusive right to tax themselves.
Whatever rage Washington felt toward his London factors was contained by
their extensive credit and his inability to check his expenditures. Planters needed
funds to tide them over until crops were harvested and sold abroad. From the early
1760s till the time of his death, people imagined that George Washington was inﬁnitely more prosperous than he was because they had no conception of his crippling debt. When Robert Stewart asked to borrow four hundred pounds in 1763,
Washington declined and volunteered to show him a copy of his accounts at Robert
Cary. “I doubt not but you will be surprised at the badness of their condition,” he
wrote in embarrassment.11 Washington was not alone: Virginia gazettes were then
chock-full of advertisements of large indebted estates for sale.
The following year Washington was mortiﬁed to receive a sharply worded reprimand from Robert Cary that he owed eighteen hundred pounds, coupled with
a warning of a 5 percent interest charge on unpaid debt. Money was the one area
where Washington tended to dodge personal responsibility and blame force majeure. Reacting with outrage to the letter, he protested that bad weather had caused
him to fall into arrears. “For it was a misfortune that seasons and chance shou[l]d
prevent my making even tolerable crops in this part of the country for three years
successively and it was a misfortune likewise when they were made that I shou[l]d
get little or nothing for them.”12 He also objected to the accusatory tone of Cary’s
letter.13 Nonetheless, having voiced his anger, Washington took the hint and shaved
his debt in half by 1770.

1 40

r! The Pl a nter

It is striking how moody and snappish Washington could be about money. This
man who was generally so polite and courteous tended to shed all tact in business
matters, the one dimension of his career unimproved by the passage of time. He
adopted a blistering style whenever he thought someone had cheated him. Some of
this anger reﬂected continuing ﬁnancial travails, and some the troubling legacy of
his insecure, fatherless childhood. For a man who loved control as much as Washington, it must have been trying to depend upon far-off brokers in London, known
to him only by name.
The reliance upon foreign vendors fostered constant tension. To ﬁll Washington’s
orders for goods, Robert Cary and Company drew upon a network of forty London
shops. An invoice from April 1763 shows a small army of suppliers to Mount Vernon
that included a linen merchant, woolen merchant, grocer, spice maker, shot maker
(gunshot), pipe maker, pickler, rope maker, porter (beverage supplier), apothecary,
toolmaker, haberdasher, cheesemonger, stationer, milliner, hosier, tin maker, plate
maker, iron maker, wine merchant, turner (potter), and shoemaker.14 However
much Washington emphasized, for political reasons, the potential self-sufﬁciency
of the colonies, he could never curtail his taste for luxury goods from London.
With a superb eye for fashion, he was the ﬁrst American to scrap white stoneware
dishes, and in 1769 he ordered 250 pieces of the tony new cream-colored earthenware produced by Josiah Wedgwood. Not satisﬁed with bone or wooden handles
for ﬂatware, he purchased cutlery with silver handles, his grifﬁn crest emblazoned
on every implement. Everything from his gold-headed cane to his bookplates to his
horse harnesses bore this proud crest.
The perils of transatlantic shopping grew apparent when Washington ordered a
new four-horse coach in 1768. With his slavish regard for London style, he suggested
gingerly that the coach be painted green “unless any other color more in vogue and
equally lasting is entitled to precedency. In that case, I would be governed by fashion.”15 Washington sketched other desired features of this princely vehicle, including a sumptuous blue or green Moroccan leather lining and light gilding around the
side panels to spotlight his coat of arms. Washington must have had a premonition
that this coach, which cost three hundred pounds, would be ﬂawed, for he warned
that it should be “made of the best seasoned wood and by a celebrated workman.”16
As Washington suspected, the coach turned into an expensive ﬁasco. Instead of
seasoned wood, Washington protested two years later, “it was made of wood so
exceedingly green that the panels slip[pe]d out of the moldings before it was two
months in use.”17 It says something about the predicament of Virginia planters that,
despite his countless complaints about their service, Washington still handed over
his business to Robert Cary and Company.
As a highly analytical, self-critical businessman, Washington decided to do

A World of His Own r! 1 4 1

something about his ruinous dependence on tobacco, which brought little money,
depleted the soil, and furthered his reliance on London. In 1765 he began paring
back on tobacco and the next year abandoned it altogether in favor of wheat, Indian
corn, and other grains. With his experimental bent, Washington tested hemp, ﬂax,
and sixty different crops. His wheat, in particular, began to ﬂourish and became
his main cash crop, which he could sell locally in Alexandria. Tobacco had been
demanding to grow, and as he phased it out, he started to derive more real pleasure from agriculture, which became his chief source of recreation. Free of laborintensive tobacco farming, he was also able to transfer more of the workload to
others. In 1765 he hired his distant cousin, twenty-eight-year-old Lund Washington,
to manage the estate, and he treated the able Lund as a friend as well as an employee, socializing and even foxhunting with him.
Once Washington diversiﬁed his crops, he began to preside over something
more akin to a small village than a mere plantation. He was a fantastically creative
businessman and Mount Vernon evolved into a miniature polity, a self-contained
economic universe. “When I reached his place, I thought I was entering a rather
large village, but later was told that all of it belonged to him,” said an impressed visitor.18 Just as Washington agitated for autonomous colonies, he established a similar
ideal for his personal domain, as his economic interests fused with his budding
political awareness. In the late 1760s he began laying out roads to unite the ﬁve farﬂung farms of Mount Vernon and eventually brought three thousand of their eight
thousand acres under cultivation. The sheer scope of Mount Vernon’s business operations, with the accompanying need to feed and clothe a sizable number of slaves
and servants, endowed Washington with extensive managerial experience that later
assisted him with the Continental Army. His zeal for businesses beyond agriculture
also gave him an expansive economic vision that would predispose him to support
the audacious manufacturing schemes of Alexander Hamilton.
In 1771 Washington started to supplement his farming income with proceeds
from a gristmill he built at his Dogue Run farm. Housed in a three-story stone mill
set astride a stream, this successful operation packed cornmeal and reﬁned ﬂour
into big barrels and small casks for export to England, the West Indies, and even
Portugal. To enhance proﬁts further, Washington ground the corn and wheat of
neighboring farmers. He also launched a weaving operation that produced homespun clothing for slaves and made textiles for general sale. Similarly Washington
took the blacksmith shop at Mount Vernon and began marketing its services to
neighbors.
Posterity doesn’t associate George Washington with ﬁshing, but the pristine
Potomac River had a plentiful supply of ﬁsh from which to forge a thriving enterprise. As Washington informed a British friend, the Potomac was “one of the ﬁnest

142

r! The Pl a nter

rivers in the world—a river well stock[ed] with various kinds of ﬁsh at all seasons
of the year and in the spring with shad, herring, bass, carp, sturgeon, and in great
abundance.”19 Visitors to Mount Vernon shared his fascination with the teeming
schools of ﬁsh, which created a churning turbulence in the river. “I have seen for
several hours together in a summer’s evening, hundreds, perhaps I might say thousands of sturgeon, at a great height from the water at the same instant, so that the
quantity in the river must have been inconceivably great,” proclaimed one Frenchman.20 Washington was often astounded by the rich harvests of ﬁsh pulled up in his
bulging seines. “The whiteﬁsh ran plentifully at my seine landing, having catched
ab[ou]t 300 at one haul,” he reported in his diary.21 This number paled beside the
stupendous herring runs caught each spring as they swam to upstream spawning
grounds. “They ﬁsh for them in April,” said one Polish visitor. “They have caught
as many as 100 thousand of them with a single draw of the net.”22 By 1772 Mount
Vernon’s ﬁshery netted almost a million herring per year.
At ﬁrst the ﬁshing operation supplied food for Mount Vernon’s slaves, but
Washington soon spied the potential proﬁt and began to have the ﬁsh salted and
packed in barrels for export to the West Indies. To facilitate this trade, he assembled
a small ﬂeet of boats, including a whaleboat and a schooner. Much of his yield he
sold to Carlyle & Adam in Alexandria, and a single ledger entry for May 1771 shows
that he delivered 679,200 herring and 7, 760 shad at one shot. Even with his ﬁshery,
Washington felt hampered by senseless imperial policies. For instance, the ﬁnest
salt for curing ﬁsh came from Lisbon, but England’s mercantilist policies forced
him to import inferior salt from Liverpool. He constantly felt snarled in a tangled
web of perverse economic regulations drawn up by London bureaucrats.
As Washington switched from tobacco to other crops, the move had profound
repercussions for his slaves. Since tobacco was more labor intensive than wheat or
corn, its elimination led to a surplus of ﬁeld hands. For the rest of his life, Washington grappled with the dilemma of having too many slaves, whose numbers only
increased through normal population growth. At the same time he increasingly
trained his slaves to perform a multitude of skilled tasks, producing a workforce
of artisans proﬁcient in diverse crafts. One Scottish visitor observed that Washington “has everything within himself—carpenters, bricklayers, brewers, blacksmiths,
bakers, etc. etc.—and even has a well-assorted store for the use of his family and
servants.”23 The skills possessed by his enslaved craftsmen were extremely impressive. According to Washington’s editors, one slave named Isaac “constructed carts,
wheels, plows, harrows, rakes, wheelbarrows, and other implements,” while another
slave, Tom Davis, was a “skilled bricklayer, who also harvested grain, painted exteriors, hung wallpaper, cut grass, and worked at Washington’s ﬁshery.”24
To instruct his slaves, Washington imported indentured servants from Europe,

A World of His Own r! 1 43

many of them former convicts, who labored for a period of years, and their employment contracts obligated them to teach their trade to slaves they supervised.
So pervasive were these arrangements that a full quarter of Mount Vernon’s slaves
qualiﬁed as skilled workers, and Washington farmed them out to other planters
for extra income. While indentured servants weren’t subject to the same punishing
regimen as slaves, they felt their bondage strongly, and many ran away before their
term expired. Just as he did with runaway slaves, Washington advertised for their
return, and his notices show a minute knowledge of these hired hands. When William Orre escaped in 1774, Washington described him as “a well-made man about
5 foot 10 inches high and about 24 years of age. He was born in Scotland and talks
that dialect pretty much. He is of a red complexion and very full-faced, with short,
sandy-colored hair and very remarkable thumbs, they being both crooked.”25

Wh e n Wa sh i ngt on at t e n de d the House of Burgesses in the spring of 1767,
the furor over the Stamp Act had temporarily subsided. During this sleepy, uneventful session, Washington received one of the two surviving letters written to him by
Martha. It shows her as a warm and affectionate if uneducated wife. The note reads
in its entirety: “My Dearest: It was with very great pleasure I see in your letter th[at]
you got safely down we are all very well at this time but it still [is] rainney and wett
I am sorry you will not be at home soon as I expe[ct]ed you I had reather my sister
would not come up so soon, as May wou[ld] be [a] much plasenter time than April
we wrote to you las[t] post as I have nothing new to tell you I must conclude my self
your most Affcetionate Martha Washington.”26
Having failed to learn its lesson with the Stamp Act, Great Britain again provoked colonial discontent in 1767 with the Townshend Acts, which placed duties
on paint, glass, paper, and tea and buttressed the power of royal ofﬁcials by freeing
them from reliance on colonial assemblies for money. Hardening its stance toward
the restive colonists, the Crown dispatched the HMS Romney to Boston, where
radicals had a chance in May 1768 to ponder the political message carried by its
ﬁfty guns. In September British warships disgorged two regiments of redcoats, who
marched through town to the beat of ﬁfe and drums and then pitched tents on the
Common in a show of strength designed to intimidate local protesters.
Of late Washington’s attendance in Williamsburg had been haphazard, and he
missed the debate in the burgesses that included vehement denunciations of the
Townshend duties. The legislators cloaked their plea to the king in obsequious
language, appealing to his “fatherly goodness and protection,” but the royal heart
remained unmoved.27 Reﬂecting their tough position, ofﬁcials in London sent to Virginia a new governor, Lord Botetourt, a peer of the realm with secret instructions to

144

r! The Pl a nter

dissolve the Virginia assembly if it persisted in willful opposition to imperial wisdom.
For all their ire over the Townshend duties, the burgesses still couldn’t resist the allure
of an honest-to-goodness British aristocrat, and on November 2, 1768, Washington
and fellow burgesses ﬂocked to a festive welcoming dinner for the royal governor.
One can argue plausibly that the events of the winter of 1768–69 converted
George Washington from a rich, disaffected planter into a rabid militant against
British policies. Had he died before that winter, he would have left no real record of
distinction, aside from youthful bravery in the French and Indian War. That winter
changed everything, and he began to evolve into the George Washington known
to history. Moving beyond the disputes over self-advancement that had preoccupied his younger, insecure self, he suddenly seemed a larger ﬁgure in the nascent
struggle against British injustice. All his seething frustration in seeking a royal commission during the war; all his vocal disaffection with Robert Cary and Company;
all his dismay over British policies that handicapped him as a planter and real estate speculator—these enduring complaints now crystallized into splendid wrath
against the Crown.
That winter Parliament grew so disgruntled over colonial protests against its tax
policy that it was proposed (though never executed) that the ringleaders be shipped
to England and tried for treason under an old statute dating from Henry VIII’s
reign. As word of this proposal spread, so did protest against the mother country.
In early April Washington received a packet from Dr. David Ross of Bladensburg,
Maryland, containing news of associations being set up in Philadelphia and Annapolis to boycott nonessential British imports as long as Parliament persisted in
foisting unfair taxes on the colonies. The packet included plans for a comparable
Virginia association, drawn up by a nameless writer. Washington sent it to his friend
and neighbor George Mason, who turned out to be the author. A tall, bookish man
trained in the law, Mason was more scholarly and less sociable than Washington.
He inhabited a Georgian mansion called Gunston Hall, just south of Belvoir, which
was in turn just south of Mount Vernon.
On April 5, 1769, Washington sent Mason a remarkable letter that gave both his
private and his public reasons for supporting a boycott of British goods. Doubtless
thinking of his own plight, he said a boycott would break the onerous cycle of debt
that trapped many colonists, purging their extravagant spending. Before this the
average colonial debtor was too weak to break this habit, “for how can I, says he,
who have lived in such and such a manner, change my method? . . . besides, such an
alteration in the system of my living will create suspicions of a decay in my fortune
and such a thought the world must not harbor.”28 Washington provided here a key
insight into the psychology of debt: fear that any attempt at a more frugal existence
would disclose the truth about a person’s actual wealth.

A World of His Own r! 1 45

In the letter, Washington made clear that his opposition to arbitrary taxation
had much to do with setting a precedent against further mischief. Just as the British
assumed the right to taxation, so “they may attempt at least to restrain our manufactories, especially those of a public nature.”29 Striking a militant tone, Washington
suggested that he had moved beyond petitions and now preferred direct action,
although not yet arms. He suddenly found a clear, spirited voice of protest, one
that spoke of abstract rights instead of just personal advancement or economic
necessity. “At a time when our lordly masters in Great Britain will be satisﬁed with
nothing less than the deprivation of American freedom, it seems highly necessary
that something shou[l]d be done to avert the stroke and maintain the liberty which
we have derived from our ancestors.” In considering the best means to effect this,
he balked at spelling out the treasonous word arms. “That no man shou[l]d scruple
or hesitate a moment to use a—ms in defense of so valuable a blessing . . . is clearly
my opinion. Yet a—ms, I wou[l]d beg leave to add, should be the last resource.”30
Noting the futility of sending more fawning petitions to the king, he said the only
recourse was to starve British trade and manufactures.
In many ways, Washington’s letter to Mason foretells the success of the American
Revolution: he tried to be law-abiding, endorsed incremental change, and favored
violence only if all else failed. Unlike the French Revolution, the American Revolution started with a series of measured protests by men schooled in self-government,
a long, exhaustive search for a diplomatic solution, before moving toward open
rebellion. Later on, nothing incensed Washington more than the notion that the
colonists had proved unreasonable during the run-up to war.
In the following weeks, Washington discussed with Mason his proposal for a
nonimportation association for Virginia. Then on April 30 Washington headed to
Williamsburg to present this plan to the burgesses. Until this point he had been a
minor, often absentee, legislator, too taciturn and aloof to emerge as a major political force. One observer characterized him as “too bashful and timid for an orator,”
while another described him as “a modest man, but sensible, and speaks little—in
action cool, like a bishop at his prayers.”31 Now ﬁred up with a newfound sense of
leadership, Washington served on three standing committees, signifying an abrupt
elevation in Virginia politics. In opening the new session of the burgesses in early
May, Lord Botetourt reminded them of his royal auspices by riding to the capitol
in a handsome coach behind a brilliant team of white horses. Held amid the uproar over the Townshend Acts, this spring session promised to be tumultuous and
featured a surprising number of new members, including the lanky Virginian from
Albemarle County, twenty-six-year-old Thomas Jefferson.
On May 16, with Washington present, the burgesses approved the sweeping Virginia Resolves, which contended that only they had the right to tax Virginians. They

1 46

r! The Pl a nter

also insisted upon the right to petition the Crown for grievances and restrict trials
for treason and other crimes to the colony itself. The next day, having heard enough
seditious proposals from these upstart Virginians, Lord Botetourt had the sergeant
at arms interrupt their session and summon them to a brief meeting in the council
chamber, where he delivered an imperious message. “Mr. Speaker and Gentlemen
of the House of Burgesses,” he began, “I have heard of your resolves and augur ill
of their effect. You have made it my duty to dissolve you and you are dissolved
accordingly.”32
This bald declaration shocked the assembled worthies into recognizing how
little authority they wielded. They weren’t the ultimate source of power, which was
doled out sparingly at the whim of the Crown. Once Lord Botetourt issued his
decree, Washington and many other burgesses adjourned to the Apollo Room of
the Raleigh Tavern to ponder “their distressed situation.”33 In this highly emotional
gathering, Washington introduced the boycott scheme over which he and Mason
had labored. The dissident members formed a committee, including Washington,
that accepted the plan for a nonimportation association. The next morning the
burgesses reconvened in the Apollo Room and afﬁxed their signatures to the plan
to boycott any British goods subject to taxes in America. For good measure, they
threw in a lengthy list of untaxed goods to shun. This Virginia Association would
remain in force until the Townshend Acts were repealed. Caught up in the giddy
spirit of the moment, Washington purchased Letters from a Farmer in Pennsylvania
to the Inhabitants of the British Colonies, an inﬂuential dissident pamphlet written
by a wealthy Philadelphia lawyer, John Dickinson.
During this early period of discontent, Washington and his fellow burgesses
danced a strange minuet with Lord Botetourt, alternating deﬁance with reconciliation. The day after signing the nonimportation agreement, Washington mentioned
in his diary: “Dined again at Mrs. Dawson’s and went to the Queens birth night at
the palace.”34 A proud, imposing building, the governor’s palace boasted marble
ﬂoors and stacks of muskets mounted on black walnut walls; its ballroom glistened
with portraits of the king and queen. That Washington and other burgesses would
celebrate the queen’s birthday still seemed quite natural to them. As the Virginia
Gazette commented, “The Governor gave a splendid ball and entertainment at the
palace to a very numerous and polite company of ladies and gentlemen.”35 Nothing
better illustrates the schizoid world of these unsettled legislators than the way they
gravitated to the governor’s genteel ball despite the political passions smoldering
underneath. Even among the most hypercritical burgesses, there existed as yet no
sense of an irrevocable split from England.
In late July Washington seemed to rejoice at the chance to inform Robert Cary
and Company that he was “determined to adhere religiously” to the new boycott

A World of His Own r! 1 47

agreement. In submitting an invoice of goods he wanted, Washington apprised his
agents that nothing should be sent to him that appeared on the list of products
taxed by Parliament “as I have heartily enter[e]d into an association” bound to boycott such goods.36 He welcomed the boycott as a chance to extend his far-reaching
experiments in economic self-sufﬁciency at Mount Vernon. In the estimation of
one observer, Washington “carried the scheme of manufacturing to a greater height
than almost any man [in Virginia].”37
Washington remained a most unlikely revolutionary. When he was attending
the burgesses that autumn, he, Martha, and her daughter, Patsy, traveled to Williamsburg in the glittering green coach, adorned with gilt-edged panels, that Washington had so painstakingly ordered from Robert Cary. The tone of this session was
less confrontational than in the spring, and Lord Botetourt molliﬁed members by
supporting repeal of the Townshend duties, except for the fateful one on tea. His
speech previewed a policy shift by the new administration, headed by Lord North,
whose strategy was to undercut the dissidents by revoking the duties while retaining the one on tea to reafﬁrm parliamentary prerogative. This maneuver succeeded
in cooling off the fervor of the Virginia Association, even after British grenadiers in
early March 1770 ﬁred on a disorderly crowd in Boston, killing ﬁve of them in what
became known as the “Boston Massacre.”
The many contradictions of Washington’s world were on display in Williamsburg
that spring. He attended the opening night of The Beggar’s Opera and a luxurious
ball to honor the king’s birthday. Yet this same George Washington was dismayed
that his fellow Virginians couldn’t curb their appetite for imported goods. He was
disappointed in June when a new nonimportation agreement relaxed many restrictions, allowing imports of barley and pork, pewter and gold, boots and saddles.
Eminently realistic, already equipped with ﬁne political instincts, Washington recognized that this watered-down agreement was “the best that the friends to the
cause cou[l]d obtain here.” At the same time he wished it were “ten times as strict”
and frowned on it as “too much relaxed from the spirit with which a measure of this
sort ought to be conducted.”38 Nevertheless that July Washington had no qualms
about ordering from Robert Cary a pigskin saddle, gold jewelry, and other luxury
items only recently proscribed.

Ge orge Wa sh i ngt on be l i e v e d f e rv e n t ly in the potential wealth of the
western lands, a faith he touted in almost messianic tones. He had long maintained
that the foremost Virginia estates were created “by taking up and purchasing at very
low rates the rich back lands, which were thought nothing of in those days, but are
now the most valuable lands we possess.”39 For Washington, land speculation was

148

r! The Pl a nter

the ideal vehicle for amassing riches, a way to invest in his own future and that of
the country, mingling idealism with proﬁt. He continued to deplore the 1763 proclamation barring settlement beyond the Allegheny Mountains as both myopic and
unworkable. When Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon completed their survey of
the Pennsylvania-Maryland border, he foresaw that it would trigger a mad scramble
for prime frontier acreage.
Washington didn’t shrink from secrecy and even sharp dealings in real estate,
as can be seen in his strenuous efforts to expand his western holdings in the late
1760s. Hoping to purchase up to two thousand acres, he turned to an old ally from
the Forbes campaign, Captain William Crawford, who lived in the Ohio Country.
Washington wanted to scout out forbidden lands beyond the so-called Proclamation Line and didn’t think he could afford to wait, advising Crawford that anyone
“who neglects the present opportunity of hunting out good lands and in some
measure marking and distinguishing them for their own . . . will never regain it.”
Crawford agreed to search out large parcels in partnership with Washington, who
urged him to “keep this whole matter a profound secret,” lest other speculators discover their designs before they laid “a proper foundation for success.”40
In late 1768 the British negotiated two treaties with the Indians that reopened the
Ohio Country to settlers, ushering in frenzied competition among real estate speculators. At this point Washington renewed his clamor for 200,000 acres of bounty
lands promised by Dinwiddie to veterans of the Fort Necessity campaign in 1754,
a pledge he considered a sacred public trust. In the conciliatory mood temporarily
existing in Williamsburg in late 1769, Washington prevailed upon Lord Botetourt
to honor this commitment. The governor and council identiﬁed the conﬂuence of
the Ohio and Great Kanawha rivers as the site of these bounty lands. Washington
proved a natural manager of this enterprise and undertook the necessary surveying
work, but his situation was fraught with conﬂicts of interest, and the entire episode
would be shadowed by accusations of sharp dealing from his former men. Washington summoned meetings of veterans and induced them to select William Crawford as surveyor of the bounty lands. Not only did Washington exploit his position
to pin down prime real estate for himself, but he bought up rights surreptitiously
from needy veterans to enlarge his holdings.
Washington also claimed land under a 1763 royal proclamation that promised
land to veterans of the French and Indian War. He had his brother Charles buy
up veterans’ claims under his own name, even though Washington was their undisclosed owner; on another occasion, he effected such a purchase under Lund
Washington’s name. Washington also wanted to circumvent a regulation that limited land grants to ofﬁcers who had remained with the Virginia Regiment until it
dissolved in 1762. Since he had resigned before then, he had Charles buy up claims

A World of His Own r! 1 49

from those who had served until the end, instructing his brother to operate stealthily and “not let it be known that I have any concern therein.”41 When he purchased
one property stretching more than forty miles along the Great Kanawha, he ﬂouted
a law prohibiting riverfront properties from being more than three times as long
as they were deep, a way to prevent monopolies of choice riverine acreage. Most
ofﬁcers had a mile and a half of riverfront on their narrow properties, which then
extended ﬁve miles back into the countryside. Even as Washington developed a
wider political vision, he remained extremely aggressive in his real estate dealings.
As the biographer James T. Flexner concluded: “In no other direction did Washington demonstrate such acquisitiveness as in his quest for the ownership of land.”42
He was far from alone: hoarding cheap land was a universal madness in Virginia
and the other colonies.
In early October 1770, accompanied by Dr. Craik, three slaves, and a packhorse,
Washington began a tour of the Ohio Country to inspect properties for himself and
his men. He had grown accustomed to having Billy Lee along on these long, rugged
journeys, but the young mulatto slave fell ill and stayed behind. On this nine-week
expedition, Washington felt an acute sense of urgency, since settlers were already
ﬂocking to the Ohio and Great Kanawha rivers, and he feared they might preempt
the most productive soil. He also got wind of a huge scheme by English investors
to obtain 2.5 million acres and inaugurate a new colony, Vandalia, whose borders
might further curtail the bounty lands. When the British ministry approved this
scheme, rebufﬁng a petition from Washington’s Mississippi Land Company, he
darkly decried London’s “malignant disposition towards Americans,” adding yet
another grievance to his lengthening litany of complaints against Crown policies.43
During one leg of the journey, Washington was staying about four miles from
present-day Pittsburgh when an Indian chief called the White Mingo and other
chiefs of the Six Nations requested a meeting. The White Mingo bestowed upon
Washington a ceremonial string of wampum, then stunned him with a vivid recollection dating back to the French and Indian conﬂict. Washington noted the gist
of this speech in his diary: “that as I was a person who some of them remember
to have seen when I was sent on an embassy to the French and most of them had
heard of, they were come to bid me welcome to the country and to desire that the
people of Virginia wou[l]d consider them as friends and brothers linked together
in one chain.”44
As he rode or paddled by canoe, Washington remained attentive to the commercial prospects of this sparsely populated region. In negotiating leases with western
farmers, he retained timber and mineral rights and even visited a coal mine. “The
coal seemed to be of the very best kind, burning freely and abundance of it,” he
remarked in his diary.45 While he negotiated forest paths and mountain passes that

150

r! The Pl a nter

he knew from the French and Indian War, he appraised these wild places with a
cool business eye. Even though he bought two hundred acres of the Great Meadows
in December 1770, he included no mention of its history in his diary. Of the site
where hundreds had been brutally slaughtered under General Braddock, Washington merely observed that it wasn’t level enough for agriculture. Not until 1772 did
Washington and his veterans receive the land distributions they had long awaited.
Washington was allotted more than twenty thousand acres on the Ohio and Great
Kanawha rivers, augmented by another eleven thousand acres the following year,
making him a major western landlord on the eve of the American Revolution.
As with all challenges to his integrity, Washington remained touchy on the subject of the bounty lands and whether he had taken unfair advantage of his men.
Although he walked off with the ﬁnest properties, he also believed that he had
devoted enormous time to surveying the area and that the whole operation hinged
on his efforts. Suspicions about his conduct he thought unfair and baseless. When
one ofﬁcer, George Muse, accused him of shortchanging him of land, Washington
didn’t mince words: “As I am not accustomed to receive such from any man, nor
would have taken the same language from you personally, without letting you feel
some marks of my resentment, I would advise you to be cautious in writing me a
second [letter] of the same tenor. For though I understand you were drunk when
you did it, yet give me leave to tell you that drunkenness is no excuse for rudeness.”46 If Muse read the newspapers, Washington pointed out, he would have seen
that he had been allotted the ten thousand acres he claimed, and he concluded by
telling his former ofﬁcer indignantly that he was sorry he had ever “engag[e]d in
behalf of so ungrateful and dirty a fellow as you are.”47 While Washington was in the
right here, the letter shows how his bottled-up anger could spew forth unexpectedly
and why people intuited correctly that he had a terrible temper.
In his eagerness to unlock the riches of the heartland, Washington assigned a
premier position to the busy river running by his home. If the Potomac could be
improved by locks and other measures, he thought, it would emerge as the main
thoroughfare for commerce with the interior, enhancing the value of his western
holdings. In 1770 the attorney Thomas Johnson, who owned thousands of acres
along the Potomac, tried to enlist Washington’s aid for modest improvements along
the river. A short, stocky man of unbounded energy and enthusiasm, he kindled in
Washington a lasting enthusiasm for the project. Not to be outdone in Potomac
boosterism, Washington espoused a far more ambitious plan that would connect
the river with “a rising empire” in the western country.48 Washington clearly foresaw the rich future of this wilderness expanse, if only it could be reached by water.
Simple in theory but ﬁendishly complex in practice, his plan for Potomac commerce required not just endless locks but portages through the mountains of what

A World of His Own r! 15 1

is now West Virginia. This Potomac scheme would hypnotize his mind much as
the vision of a mythical Northwest Passage once entranced transatlantic mariners.
If the Potomac never became the grand commercial gateway he had envisioned, it
was not for want of trying.
With considerable sophistication about business and politics that already belied
his image as a mere planter, Washington told Johnson that they shouldn’t just rely
on legislative grants and the uncertain force of “motives of public spirit.”49 Better
to rely on self-interest and blatantly appeal to “the monied gentry” who would be
drawn by prospective proﬁts.50 To this end, Washington would devise a plan for a
joint stock company that would receive charters from Virginia and Maryland and
make the river navigable from Tidewater Virginia to the Ohio Country. It would
pay back investors by charging tolls on river trafﬁc. Washington himself steered a
Potomac navigation bill through the House of Burgesses. Despite his insistence that
the project would produce “amazing advantages” to both Virginia and Maryland,
it foundered in the Maryland legislature because Baltimore businessmen feared it
might divert trade from the Chesapeake Bay.51 When the project stalled momentarily, it provided Washington with yet another early example of the need for intercolonial cooperation.

chapter fourteen

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

The Asiatic Prince

For s om e on e of George Washington’s enterprising nature, Martha Washington
was the ideal spouse, with a work ethic to match his own. General Nathanael Greene
once commented that Virginia ladies “appear to be brought up and educated with
habits of industry and attention to domestic affairs,” and Martha Washington certainly ﬁt that description.1
Never the idle, pampered doyenne of Mount Vernon, she was involved in everything from distilling rose water to gathering ash for making soap. George Washington liked to say that “Virginia ladies pride themselves on the goodness of their
bacon,” and Martha derived special pleasure from the ham and bacon cured in
their smokehouse.2 Each day, after an hour dedicated to prayer and meditation, she
supervised servants in cooking and cleaning and presided over her sewing circle
of slaves, who produced up to twelve hundred yards of homespun cloth yearly. All
the while, she retained a folksy, unpretentious style. It was said that even when she
wore the same gown for a week, it somehow managed to remain spotless. A woman
with a delicate constitution, Martha was often sick for weeks at a time with liver and
stomach troubles, known as “bilious fever,” but she never let illness slow her down
in performing her domestic chores.
A gregarious person, Martha Washington wanted a home crowded with people.
With her husband preoccupied by business and politics, she took charge of her two
children and enjoyed the demands of motherhood, one visitor noting that “her
happiness is in exact proportion to the number of objects upon which she can
dispense her beneﬁts.”3 She had special cause to worry about her daughter, Patsy.
In Charles Willson Peale’s watercolor of her at sixteen, Patsy is pretty and elegant,

The Asiatic Prince r! 153

slight of build, her clear eyes sparkling with intelligence. The picture shows how
lovingly the Washingtons spoiled her: her black hair is dressed with pearls, her dress
edged with lace, and she wears costly garnet jewelry. Parental affection for Patsy
was heightened by the fact that by age six she showed incipient signs of epilepsy. A
sad irony of Martha Washington’s life is that this fretful mother, chronically worried about her children’s health, had a daughter with exactly the sort of terrifying illness she dreaded. In 1768 George and Martha were returning from Belvoir
with twelve-year-old Patsy when she suffered her ﬁrst full-scale seizure. As these
ghastly convulsions occurred with greater regularity, Dr. William Rumney turned
into a frequent visitor at Mount Vernon. He tried to halt the convulsions by bleeding and purging the girl, which only weakened her further. Although he prescribed
a dozen different powders, including toxic mercury and the herb valerian, nothing
appeared to alleviate the problem. As they watched the wrenching spectacle of this
remorseless disease, George and Martha could only have experienced a paralyzing
sense of helplessness.
Such is the nature of epilepsy that Martha would have been afraid to leave Patsy
alone and would have made sure she was watched at all times. An epileptic child can
drown while swimming or collapse into a seizure while descending a staircase. The
convulsions can erupt at any time. In his diary for April 14, 1769, Washington told of
the family setting out for a social visit when “Patcy being taken with a ﬁt on the road
by the mill, we turned back.”4 Since other children are often terriﬁed when someone
has a seizure, the disease would have isolated the adolescent girl. Even today, when
it is treated with antiseizure medications, epilepsy is encrusted with baleful legends.
In the eighteenth century, people commonly imagined that it signiﬁed diabolical
possession or might even be contagious.
Given the rudimentary state of contemporary medicine, the Washingtons
ended up mingling science with superstition in coping with the illness. In an
exasperating quest for a cure, they took Patsy to the leading physicians in Williamsburg, including eight visits to Dr. John de Sequeyra, the scion of a prominent family of Sephardic Jews in London. (This visit is the only time we know for
sure that George Washington had contact with a Jew before the Revolution.) The
Washingtons also consulted the pompous and self-important Dr. John Johnson,
who pumped Patsy full of everything from ether to barley water, to no avail. In
all, the Washingtons consulted at least eight physicians in their search to relieve
Patsy’s symptoms.
Like many desperate parents, George and Martha Washington wound up in the
hands of charlatans. In February 1769 a blacksmith named Joshua Evans came to
Mount Vernon to forge an iron “cramp ring” for one of Patsy’s ﬁngers. Popular
superstition contended that such rings, if accompanied by suitable mumbo jumbo,

15 4

r! The Pl a nter

could banish epilepsy. That summer the Washingtons took Patsy to the mineral
waters at Berkeley Springs, hoping for relief. The resort had become more fashionable since Washington and his brother Lawrence had ﬁrst visited there and now
offered everything from gambling to horse racing. In its springs, the women wore
prudish, old-fashioned garments, with lead weights secreted in the hems to ensure
that water didn’t push up their gowns and indecently expose ﬂesh. Writing from the
spa, Washington informed a friend that Patsy was “troubled with a complaint” and
“found little beneﬁt as yet from the experiment” of taking the waters. “What a week
or two more may do, we know not and therefore are inclined to put them to the
test.”5 Washington never spelled out the nature of Patsy’s “complaint,” suggesting
the stigma attached to discussing epilepsy openly.
The adolescent girl’s ﬁts grew more horrifying and frequent, sometimes striking
twice a day. They recurred so often that Washington, in alarm, began to compile a
record of them in the margin of his almanac calendars. During one frightful period
from June 29 to September 22, 1770, Patsy fell to the ﬂoor in convulsions no fewer
than twenty-six times. To compensate for her medical tribulations, Washington
treated the girl to extra clothing and trinkets whenever possible. In Williamsburg
that summer he bought her a pair of gold earrings and a tortoiseshell comb. By the
following year, as shown by invoices to Robert Cary, he was ordering liquid laudanum, a powerful opiate that may well have been administered to Patsy.
In a poignant letter of July 1771, Washington disclosed that Martha didn’t believe
that her daughter would ever be cured or even survive into adulthood. Referring to
her anxieties about her son, Jacky, Washington observed, “The unhappy situation
of her daughter has in some degree ﬁxed her eyes upon him as her only hope.”6
Washington harbored many reservations about Jacky, who was outwardly sweet
and affectionate toward his mother and never less than respectful toward his stepfather. At bottom, however, he was a young wastrel who loved horse races, hunting, and outdoor pursuits far more than his studies. When Charles Willson Peale
sketched a watercolor of him, he portrayed the eighteen-year-old Jacky dressed in
a green coat with a red collar and a richly embroidered waistcoat. He had a round
face with a small chin and slightly crossed eyes, a detail that subtly captured his restless, perhaps immature, nature.
Where Washington wrote about Patsy with unfeigned affection, with Jacky he
always seemed to bite his tongue and resort to euphemisms. Something about Patsy’s sweet simplicity he found irresistible, whereas Jacky’s feckless nature was to him
intolerable. To Washington fell the thankless task of being the family disciplinarian,
and he had to tread delicately in criticizing Jacky for fear of antagonizing his indulgent mother. Lacking the full legitimacy of a biological father, he found himself in a
predicament as he tried to reform Jacky’s habits without running afoul of Martha.

The Asiatic Prince r! 155

Though he might be the master of Mount Vernon, George Washington was far less
powerful in the tiny emotional domain of his nuclear family.
Having been denied an adequate education, Washington went to inordinate
lengths to educate his stepchildren properly. Starting in 1761, he hired a young, selfeffacing Scottish immigrant, Walter Magowan, to tutor the children at home, and
they were soon introduced to the Greek Testament and Latin poets and other things
George Washington never learned. Toward the end of 1767 Magowan surrendered
the post and returned to England, hoping to be ordained as an Anglican minister. In seeking a new teacher for thirteen-year-old Jacky, Washington contacted the
Reverend Jonathan Boucher, an Anglican clergyman who ran a small academy for
wealthy boys in his home near Fredericksburg. In his introductory letter, Washington described Jacky as “a promising boy” who was “untainted in his morals and of
innocent manners,” but then he tipped his hand and confessed his “anxiety to make
him ﬁt for more useful purposes than a horse racer.”7 He was trying to be loyal to
Jacky and frank at the same time, a tenuous balancing act he would perform for
many years. A toadying character straight out of a Jane Austen novel, Boucher, with
a tug of the forelock, answered in an unctuous manner: “Ever since I have heard of
Mast[e]r Custis, I have wish[e]d to call him one of my little ﬂock.”8 In short order,
Washington rode off to Boucher’s school with Jacky, Jacky’s young slave Julius, and
two horses.
At ﬁrst Boucher expressed high hope for his young charge, and Washington
placed an order in London for one hundred books, many in Latin. A transparently
insincere fellow, Boucher laid on the ﬂattery with a trowel, telling Washington what
he thought he wanted to hear. His ﬁrst letter described Jacky as a little angel, “a
boy of so exceedingly mild and meek a temper” that Boucher worried he might be
too artless, with “all the harmlessness of the dove” and none of “the wisdom of the
serpent.” Of this little paragon, he concluded, “I have not seen a youth that I think
promises fairer to be a good and a useful man than John Custis.”9
A year later, having discovered Jacky’s proﬂigate nature, Boucher whistled a
different tune. “You will rem[embe]r my having complain[e]d of Jack’s laziness,
which, however, I now hope is not incurable,” he wrote to Washington.10 The reverend’s dismay steadily deepened: “The chief failings of [Jacky’s] character are that he
is constitutionally somewhat too warm, indolent, and voluptuous.” He trembled for
the fate of the Custis fortune: “Sunk in unmanly sloth, [Jacky’s] estate will [be] left
to the managem[en]t of some worthless overseer and himself soon be entangled
in some matrimonial adventure.”11 Cognizant of the exorbitant wealth he would
inherit, Jacky saw little need to apply himself to studies, which couldn’t help but
distress his stepfather with his nagging work ethic.
In 1770 Jonathan Boucher became a rector in Annapolis, Maryland, and Jacky

156

r! The Pl a nter

followed him there. Boucher’s scathing strictures on Jacky’s behavior came in private exchanges with Washington and probably weren’t communicated to Martha. Always concerned with Jacky’s health, she feared he would drown and urged
Boucher not to let him swim too frequently. When Boucher devised an elaborate
plan to chaperone Jacky on a grand European tour, Washington vetoed it as too
expensive but probably suspected as well that Martha would never allow her son to
travel for an extended period, especially on an ocean voyage.
In the end, Jacky became so uncontrollable that he started gallivanting about
with friends after school and often spent the night elsewhere. Washington knew that
Annapolis, with its horse races and theater, tempted his stepson with its many sinful
haunts. “I would beg leave to request,” Washington told Boucher, “that [Jacky] may
not be suffered to sleep from under your own roof . . . nor allow him to be rambling
about at nights in company with those who do not care how debauched and vicious
his conduct may be.”12 No longer feeling obligated to ﬂatter Master Custis, Boucher
dropped all pretense. “I must confess to you,” he replied, “I never did in my life
know a youth so exceedingly indolent or so surprisingly voluptuous. One would
suppose nature had intended him for some Asiatic prince.”13 When Boucher suggested that the best way to control Jacky was to send his two horses back to Mount
Vernon, Martha furiously refused her permission.
In dealing with his stepson, Washington betrayed the exasperation of a hardworking man coping with a spoiled rich boy. Jacky was spurning the very education that Washington had so sorely missed. Having never learned French himself,
Washington told Boucher to teach it to Jacky: “To be acquainted with the French
tongue is become a part of polite education and, to a man who has an[y idea] of
mixing in a large circle, absolutely necessary.”14 Jacky never learned French or Greek
or mathematics, as he was supposed to do.
One reason that Washington monitored Jacky’s education so narrowly was
that he took seriously his role as guardian of the Custis estate. When he turned
down Boucher’s request for the grand tour, he explained that its costs would exceed
Jacky’s income, forcing him to draw down capital. This “might be deemed imprudent in me to allow without the sanction of the court, who are the constitutional
guardians of orphans.”15 Jacky’s estate consisted of four plantations in New Kent
County, 15,000 acres of land, somewhere between 200 and 300 slaves, and nearly
10,000 pounds in ﬁnancial securities. One wonders how Washington felt about this
devil-may-care stepson whose immense wealth easily rivaled his own.
In early 1773 Washington decided that the time had come to ship Jacky off to
college. For Martha, William and Mary would have been the most desirable place,
given its proximity to Mount Vernon, but Washington found the atmosphere at
the Virginia school too lax. He wanted to send Jacky to the College of New Jersey

The Asiatic Prince r! 157

(Princeton), but Boucher steered him instead to King’s College (predecessor to Columbia) in New York. Boucher argued that King’s was located in “the most fashionable and polite place on the continent,” and that he counted its president, Dr. Myles
Cooper, as a personal friend.16 It is worth noting that Washington, taking a dim
view of the moral climate in Virginia, wanted to educate his stepson in the North.
Once Washington decided in favor of King’s, Jacky introduced a fresh complication into the picture. This sexually precocious youth had spent considerable time
wooing the opposite sex. “Jack has a propensity to the sex,” Boucher warned Washington, “which I am at a loss how to judge of, much more how to describe.”17 It was
only a matter of time before Jacky became seriously involved with a young woman.
In December 1771, when Jonathan Boucher moved again, this time to Prince George’s
County, Maryland, he took along three students. One was Jacky and another was
Charles Calvert, son of the wealthy Benedict Calvert of Mount Airy. Jacky courted
Eleanor (Nelly) Calvert, Charles’s beautiful, dark-eyed sister, and by early 1773 had
proposed to her. All this happened without the Washingtons’ knowledge. Shocked
by the news, they tried, at a bare minimum, to slow things down. On April 3, 1773,
Washington wrote an artful letter to Benedict Calvert, stating that he had heard of
Nelly’s “amiable qualiﬁcations” and that “an alliance” with the Calverts would please
him and Martha. He then went on to cite Jacky’s “youth, inexperience, and unripened education” as “insuperable obstacles . . . to the completion of the marriage.”18
Washington suggested that the marriage be deferred for two or three years until Jacky
completed his education. In the letter, he distanced himself from Jacky and discreetly
registered his disapproval without openly disavowing him. Benedict Calvert agreed
that Jacky should spend two years at King’s College before marrying his daughter.

For Washi ngton, the other troubling family situation of these years involved
his perennial attempt to please his mother, who refused to be satisﬁed. Mary Ball
Washington had taken no apparent pride in her son’s service in the French and Indian
War, and when he resigned from the Virginia Regiment, she commented that there
had been “no end to my trouble while George was in the army, but he has now given
it up.”19 If he felt no real affection for his mother, he was ﬁrst and last a dutiful son
and showed integrity in caring for this self-centered woman. Frequently stopping off
to see her in Fredericksburg, he made a point of giving her money. He extended many
loans to her, even though she always reneged on repayment. In an account book for
January 1772, noting that he had been lending his mother money since 1756, Washington offered the acidulous comment, “I suppose she never expected to pay.”20
For decades, Mary Ball Washington had lived frugally at Ferry Farm, the ample
spread fronting the Rappahannock that George had inherited from his father and

15 8

r! The Pl a nter

that he had let her use freely all these years. For a long time she had delighted in
her independence, riding about in an open chaise and supervising the slaves. Now
about sixty-three, she was no longer able to superintend the run-down place, and
in 1772 George encouraged her to move into Fredericksburg. To make a ﬁnal provision for her, he spent 275 pounds for a charming white frame house on a one-acre
lot at the corner of Charles and Lewis streets in Fredericksburg. He added a wide,
deep porch with a slanting roof that overlooked the garden. The house was ideally
situated for Mary: a brick footpath led straight to the imposing mansion of her
daughter Betty and Fielding Lewis, who had eleven hundred acres and 125 slaves.
Washington’s brothers Charles, a Spotsylvania County justice, and Samuel, a plantation owner, also owned nearby houses. Although Mary Ball Washington spent the
last seventeen years of her life in the Charles Street house and never paid a penny in
rent, she never acknowledged George’s generosity, as best we know.
Washington personally surveyed Ferry Farm in 1771 in preparation for selling it.
He also agreed to take charge of a four-hundred-acre farm, Little Falls, that Mary
owned two miles downriver and had inherited from her father. Washington was
supposed to proﬁt from Mary’s ten slaves and livestock and pay her thirty pounds
rent yearly in exchange, a deal approved by his brother Charles and brother-in-law
Fielding Lewis. Because there was no mutual trust between mother and son, when
Washington paid Mary the rent, he often did so in the presence of his sister Betty,
then recorded in his ledger that the latter had witnessed the transaction.
One small incident from the early years of the Revolutionary War shows just
how steely a woman Mary Washington was. She had reclaimed from Mount Vernon
a slave woman named Silla. Lund Washington notiﬁed George of the heartrending
scene that occurred when he informed Silla’s partner, Jack (probably a slave cooper), that Silla was being sent down to Fredericksburg. “He cries and begs, saying
he had rather be hang[e]d than separated,” Lund reported. A week later Lund reiterated that “Jack and Silla are much distressed about parting.”21 George Washington respected slave marriages and refused to separate couples. Nevertheless Mary
Washington evidently persisted in her demand and broke up the couple for her
own convenience.

O n t h e e v e n i ng of M ay 1 8 , 17 7 2 , Jacky Custis returned to Mount Vernon
with an unusual companion in tow, a thirty-one-year-old painter named Charles
Willson Peale who lived in Annapolis and toted an introductory letter from the
Reverend Jonathan Boucher. The handsome young stranger had relinquished a
career as a saddle maker to specialize in portraits of afﬂuent families. Peale was
destined to have three wives and sixteen children and emerge as a towering ﬁgure

The Asiatic Prince r! 159

in early American life, excelling as a painter, a writer, a soldier, an inventor, a silversmith, a taxidermist, a dentist, and the founder of a Philadelphia museum. He had
studied painting in London under the foremost American expatriate artist, Benjamin West, and the Potomac gentry already prized his pictures. Nudged by Martha,
George Washington, age forty, agreed to endure his ﬁrst portrait. Though he never
warmed to artistic scrutiny, he had enough vanity in his psychological makeup to
want a picture of himself.
Even though more than thirteen years had passed since Washington resigned his
military commission, he still prided himself on a military identity, and people often
greeted him as Colonel Washington. The brouhaha over the Stamp Act and the
Townshend duties also raised the distant prospect of a recourse to arms. So as the
industrious Peale settled in at Mount Vernon, Washington donned a uniform—a
blue coat trimmed with scarlet and a scarlet waistcoat—that called forth memories
of the French and Indian War.
Never comfortable with self-exposure, Washington was alternately restive and
sleepy in posing for Peale, as he described whimsically to Boucher. He seemed to
sense what a bafﬂing, enigmatic subject he was. “Inclination having yielded to importunity, I am now, contrary to all expectation, under the hands of Mr Peale, but in
so grave, so sullen, a mood—and now and then under the inﬂuence of Morpheus,
when some critical strokes are making—that I fancy the skill of this gentleman’s
pencil will be put to it in describing to the world what manner of man I am.”22
This serene painting has a storybook quality. Instead of presenting Washington
as a prosperous planter, it offers a nostalgic backward glimpse to the Washington
of the 1750s. With one yellow-gloved hand thrust into his waistcoat, a musket slung
behind him, and a golden sash hung diagonally across his chest, Washington gazes
poetically into the distance. His face is smooth and innocent, his blue eyes clear, and
he might be listening to bird whistles in the tree above him rather than live bullets.
His facial features are mobile and animated, not yet etched with the strong character engraved there by the Revolutionary War. The picturesque scene pretends to
capture Washington being summoned to battle, with an Order of March protruding from his fob pocket. Washington was so fond of the painting, which captured
him in his prime, that it hung in the Mount Vernon parlor for the rest of his life. It
seems to foretell his eagerness to resume his military career.
The artist spent a week at Mount Vernon and painted miniatures of Martha,
Jacky, and Patsy along with the three-quarter-length portrait of George Washington. The picture of Martha was done at Jacky’s request, and one wonders whether
he made a point of demonstrating his love for his mother or perhaps implicitly
rebuked his stepfather for not having included her in pictures by this visiting artist.
It must be said that the picture of Martha Washington, in a mauve dress and pearls,

16 0

r! The Pl a nter

is not especially ﬂattering. Her face is cold and humorless, the tight lips primly
disapproving. Nevertheless this was probably the miniature of Martha that her
grandson later meant when he said that George Washington always “wore around
his neck the miniature portrait of his wife. This he had worn through all the vicissitudes of his eventful career . . . to the last days at Mount Vernon.”23

I n M ay 17 7 3 , hoping to put a safe distance between Jacky and his intended bride,
Washington accompanied him to New York City and enrolled him in King’s College. This sociable trip exposed Washington to personalities who were to be prominent in the coming conﬂict. It was almost the last moment when Washington could
still mingle easily with people of differing ideologies. In Philadelphia he dined with
Governor Richard Penn and in Burlington, New Jersey, with Governor William
Franklin, Benjamin Franklin’s illegitimate son and soon to be ostracized as a notorious Tory. At Basking Ridge, New Jersey, he stayed at the opulent estate of Lord
Stirling, whose extravagant ways had already landed him in debt; before too long,
Stirling would emerge as one of Washington’s favorite generals. In New York he met
with James DeLancey, shortly to command a Loyalist cavalry, and attended a dinner in honor of an old colleague from the Braddock campaign, Lieutenant General
Thomas Gage, now commander of British forces in North America. It is amusing
to think of George Washington drinking toasts to this future bugbear of the patriot
cause. Washington also attended a performance of Hamlet, staged in a red theater
building on John Street.
The president of King’s College, the Reverend Myles Cooper, welcomed Jacky
Custis and his personal slave Joe to the school. An accomplished scholar and poet,
versed in classical tongues, Cooper had strengthened the college by adding new
professors and a medical school and expanding the library. He had also turned the
school into a hotbed of Tory sentiment as the colonies became polarized by the
controversial taxes imposed by London. The school stood on the Hudson River,
one block west of the common, where radicals congregated to spout anti-British
venom. Myles Cooper, with no patience for such critics, branded the radical Sons
of Liberty the “sons of licentiousness, faction, and confusion.”24
There is no suggestion that Washington had any qualms about depositing Jacky
in a school known for its Tory views. He must have alerted Cooper candidly to Jacky’s
wanton history, because he told the president that, if Jacky spent too freely, he hoped
Cooper would “by your friendly admonitions . . . check the progress of it.”25 College
life was shot through with class differences, and Jacky basked in his privileged station. Thanks to his wealth, the cosseted boy enjoyed social equality with his professors, who seemed to know his status and cater to it. Instead of socializing with other

The Asiatic Prince r! 161

students, Jacky boasted of dining with President Cooper and his tutors. “I believe I
may say without vanity that I am look[e]d upon in a particular light” by the faculty,
Jacky told his mother. “There is as much distinction made between me and the other
students as can be expected.”26 He also bragged that he and Joe had their own suite
of rooms, with a large sitting room and two small bedrooms. At times Jacky wrote
about King’s College as if it were a swank resort staffed with servile employees hired
to wait upon him, assuring his mother that “there has nothing been omitted by my
good friend Doctor Cooper which was necessary to my contentment in this place.”27
After Washington returned to Mount Vernon, Jacky promised that he would prove
a credit to his family. The young man’s cozy relationship with the faculty suggested
that things wouldn’t turn out exactly as Washington had planned.
The concern over Jacky paled into insigniﬁcance, however, beside mounting
trepidation over Patsy’s medical condition. Charles Willson Peale remembered the
palpable atmosphere of fear at Mount Vernon, writing that “we used to walk together to enjoy the evening breeze” and “danced to give exercise to Miss Custis . . .
who did not enjoy good health. She was subject to ﬁts and Mrs. Washington never
suffered her to be a minute out of her sight.”28 Washington’s diaries for early 1773
are rife with emergency visits by Dr. Rumney. During one particularly distressing
time in late January, the doctor camped out at Mount Vernon for almost a full week.
Then on Saturday, June 19, 1773, Patsy Custis died a sudden, painless death, leading
her stepfather to make a terse entry in his diary: “At home all day. About ﬁve o’clock
poor Patcy Custis died suddenly.”
The next day, a shaken Washington wrote a note eloquent in its brevity to his
brother-in-law Burwell Bassett:
Dear Sir: It is an easier matter to conceive than to describe the distress of this family,
especially that of the unhappy parent of our dear Patcy Custis, when I inform you
that yesterday remov[e]d the sweet, innocent girl into a more happy and peaceful
abode than any she has met with in the afﬂicted path she hitherto has trod. She rose
from dinner about four o’clock in better health and spirits than she appear[e]d to
have been in for some time. Soon after which she was seized with one of her usual
ﬁts and expir[e]d in it in less than two minutes without uttering a word, a groan, or
scarce a sigh. This sudden and unexpected blow, I scarce need add, has almost reduced my poor wife to the lowest ebb of misery, which is increas[e]d by the absence
of her son (whom I have just ﬁxed at the College in New York).29

After ﬁve years of torment, Patsy had gently slipped away. It was unusual for a person with epilepsy to die so peacefully, suggesting that Patsy may have had a heart
problem or some other condition associated with her epilepsy.

162

r! The Pl a nter

A private man who never ﬂaunted his deep emotions, George Washington
nonetheless gave way to a tremendous outpouring of grief. One observer remembered him kneeling by Patsy’s bed as he “solemnly recited the prayers for the dying,
while tears rolled down his cheeks and his voice was often broken by sobs.”30 In a
week of sweltering heat, the heartbroken Washingtons decided it was wise to bury
Patsy on the family property the next day. The cofﬁn, draped in black, was buried
in the brick vault down the hill from the house on the Potomac side. Martha assumed a black mourning cape for a full year. Her husband knew that, between her
daughter’s death and her son’s absence, she was unspeakably bereft, and he canceled
a western trip to stay near her.
When Patsy died, Jacky’s ﬁancée, Nelly Calvert, was staying with the Washingtons, and her presence proved providential, for she stepped into the huge emotional
void left by Patsy’s death, becoming like a second daughter. She lingered at Mount
Vernon for a week, fostering a lasting intimacy with Martha. Jacky wrote a tender
condolence note to his mother, telling her to “remember you are a Christian” and
saying of his lost sister that her situation was “more to be envied than pitied, for
if we mortals can distinguish between those who are deserving of grace and those
who are not, I am conﬁdent she enjoys that bliss prepar[e]d only for the good and
virtuous.”31
Patsy’s death had a profound impact on the ﬁnances of her stepfather, who
had been unable to shake his indebtedness to Robert Cary. Through skillful management, Patsy’s estate had appreciated to sixteen thousand pounds, and half this
amount went to Jacky and half to Washington by way of his wife. Later in the year
Washington instructed Robert Cary to take the inheritance and discharge his large
debt. Once again, as with his father and his brother Lawrence, Washington had
proﬁted enormously from a death that caused him grievous sorrow.
Beyond their obvious sadness, it is hard to overstate the impact that Patsy’s
death would have on George and Martha Washington in the coming years. The
sudden ﬁnancial windfall, by relieving pressure on Washington, allowed him the
luxury of participating in the American Revolution without ﬁnancial worries. In
fact, it enabled him to take part on the gentlemanly terms that suited him, as he
dispensed with a salary. The effect on Martha was no less consequential. She would
spend about half the war in her husband’s company, which would have been impossible if Patsy were alive. The sickly girl could never have managed the long coach
journeys, or the continual tensions of a military camp, or being left alone. Patsy
Custis’s death, paradoxically, set up George and Martha Washington for their shining moment in history.
The inheritance also allowed Washington to launch the second major transformation of Mount Vernon, and he ordered sixty thousand bricks and nearly ﬁf-

The Asiatic Prince r! 163

teen thousand shingles for this ambitious effort. In 1773 the main house was still a
plain, nondescript building, small and unadorned and not particularly attractive.
Now Washington decided to double the mansion’s size, adding those trademark
features—a cupola, the pediment over the west entrance, the spacious piazza on
the river side—that we associate with it today. Never a professional architect, Washington admitted that he was “a person who avows his ignorance of architectural
principles and who has no other guide but his eye to direct his choice.”32 Because he
added rooms and wings as needed, the house lacked the elegance of a preconceived
design and was marred by some clumsy touches. The facade wasn’t quite symmetrical, and the pediment sat awkwardly on the window tops—errors the more reﬁned
Jefferson would have avoided. Nevertheless the house would gain undeniable grace
and beauty, and the large colonnaded porch would stand out as a landmark in
southern architecture. The piazza, with its spectacular view of the Potomac and
wooded hills beyond, turned into Washington’s favorite haunt, the place that Abigail Adams hailed as Mount Vernon’s “greatest adornment.”33
The renovation reﬂected the split in Washington’s life between his deep desire
for privacy and his growing need to entertain people and assume a grand public
role. On the south side of the house, he would add a downstairs library and an
upstairs bedroom, sealed off from the rest of the house to fend off intruders. On
the north side, he would add an imposing two-story room, later called the Banquet
Hall, with a magniﬁcent Palladian window—a space in which Washington could
receive luminaries with a dignity beﬁtting his station. The renovation also introduced the curved arcades that gracefully attach the mansion visually to the smaller
buildings ﬂanking it. Many of these changes would be completed while Washington
was with the Continental Army, but while he remained, he oversaw the work with
typically fastidious attention to detail. “I am very much engaged in raising one of
the additions of my house, which I think (perhaps it is fancy) goes on better whilst
I am present than in my absence from the workmen,” he wrote.34
Everything at the Mansion House Farm—the serpentine walks, the beautiful
gardens, the undulating meadows—reﬂected Washington’s taste. It is noteworthy
that, as tensions mounted with Great Britain, his conception of Mount Vernon grew
more regal. In its British style, the house reﬂected his love of the country against
which he was about to rebel, suggesting that his hostility to the mother country was
a case of thwarted love. “Examples of English taste are everywhere at Mount Vernon,” write the historians Robert F. Dalzell, Jr., and Lee Baldwin Dalzell. “The taste
in question also bears the indelible stamp of that most English of institutions—the
aristocratic country house.”35
·

·

·

164

r! The Pl a nter

Pats y Cust is’s u n t i m e ly de at h meant that Martha Washington would
now derive her emotional sustenance from the unpredictable Jacky Custis alone.
Myles Cooper continued to ply Washington with favorable reports about his young
charge, as had Jonathan Boucher before him. In September 1773 he informed Washington that Jacky’s “assiduity hath been equal to his rectitude of principle and it is
hoped his improvements in learning have not been inferior to either.”36 By December Cooper couldn’t keep up these fake progress reports with a straight face and
told Washington that he had yielded to Jacky’s wish to quit college and marry. As a
military man, Washington knew when he faced a losing battle. Having Jacky’s “own
inclination, the desire of his mother, and the acquiescence of almost all his relatives
to encounter,” Washington told Cooper, “I did not care, as he is the last of the family, to push my opposition too far and therefore have submitted to a kind of necessity.”37 One can again feel Washington’s painful frustration in bowing to Martha’s
wishes when it came to her incorrigible son.
On February 3, 1774, Jacky Custis, nineteen, wed Nelly Calvert, sixteen, in Mount
Airy, Maryland, the home of the Calvert clan. Only half a year had passed since
Patsy’s death, and one wonders what Martha Washington thought about the timing
of this rushed marriage. She didn’t think it proper to attend the wedding in mourning dress, so her husband carried a congratulatory letter from her to the newlyweds.
Jacky had married into a prominent family, the Catholic proprietors of Maryland,
who had issued a famous act of religious toleration in 1649. At the same time the
family had its own salacious past to titillate Jacky’s imagination. His new fatherin-law, Benedict Calvert, was the illegitimate offspring of Charles Calvert, the ﬁfth
Lord Baltimore, and lived in a huge mansion graced with Van Dyke portraits of his
ancestors. Whatever Jacky’s ﬂaws, Nelly Calvert seemed to be a universally popular
young woman. Boucher said rhapsodically that she was “the most amiable young
woman I have almost ever known . . . She is all that the fondest parent can wish for
a darling child.”38
During their ﬁrst year of marriage, Jacky and Nelly divided their time between
Mount Airy and Mount Vernon, despite the lonely Martha’s wish that they move
permanently to Mount Vernon. That May, George and Martha took them to an unusual boat race on the Rappahannock River. As the family unfolded twenty blankets
and a picnic barbecue on the riverbank—Washington brought forty-eight bottles
of claret to spread good cheer—they watched a macabre sporting event. Two boats,
each manned by ﬁve or six muscular slaves, raced out to an anchored boat and back,
while spectators cheered and placed bets onshore. It was an exceedingly strange vignette: the man who would be ﬁghting for American liberty exactly one year later
was being entertained by teams of strong, athletic slaves.

chapter fifteen

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

A Shock of Electricity

A f t e r t h e r e vo c at ion of all the Townshend duties, except the one on tea,
the political world of Williamsburg had reverted temporarily to some semblance of
normality. In October 1771 Washington was reelected as a Fairfax County burgess.
To safeguard his seat, he paid four pounds to tavern keeper John Lomax to feed a
hearty supper to voters; twelve shillings to a Harry Piper, so that his slave Charles
could ﬁddle up a storm for them; and another pound for good measure to a Mr.
Young, who sated the hungry electorate with free cakes.
In early 1773 Washington still operated in a world of ﬂagrant contradictions. He
stanchly backed measures criticizing Parliament and the North ministry, while also
socializing with the royal governor, John Murray, Earl of Dunmore, a redheaded
Scot with a large nose and ﬁery gaze who took ofﬁce in 1771 with no inkling of just
how stormy his tenure would be. In March 1773 Washington supported the burgesses’ decision to form a Committee of Correspondence to harmonize defensive
measures with other colonies and to “propose a meeting of deputies from every
colony at some central place,” as Jefferson was to recall.1 Still slightly detached from
the fray, Washington didn’t serve on the committee and continued to straddle two
worlds. Dining with Lord Dunmore and still ravenous for land, Washington badgered him for another ﬁve thousand acres in the Ohio Country under the royal
proclamation of 1763, the one designed to reward French and Indian War veterans.
There matters stood on December 16, 1773, when a patriotic band, masquerading
as Mohawk Indians, heaved 342 chests of tea into Massachusetts Bay. Such was the
instinctive respect for private property in the colonies that even Boston ﬁrebrand
Samuel Adams boasted that the tea party had occurred “without the least injury

166

r! The Pl a nter

to the vessels or any other property.”2 The tea tax wasn’t as punitive as is commonly
supposed—the cost of tea to the colonists actually declined—but it threatened local merchants by eliminating smugglers and colonial middlemen, entrenching the
East India Company’s monopoly. It also perpetuated the hated practice of taxation
without representation.
When the news from Boston reached Mount Vernon around New Year’s Day,
Washington deplored the methods of the tea party, even if he loathed the tax on
tea. It was the next step in a fast-unfolding drama that would fully radicalize him.
The administration of the bluff, portly Lord North had decided that Boston should
pay for the destroyed tea and that Parliament should assert its supremacy, cracking
down on harebrained schemes of independence now beginning to ferment in the
colonies. In March Parliament passed the Boston Port Bill, shutting down the port
of Boston until the townspeople reimbursed the East India Company for its lost tea.
Along with other draconian measures that subverted the Massachusetts charter and
clamped military rule on Boston, the harsh new laws were known as the Coercive
Acts or “Intolerable Acts.” Such ham-handed reprisals forged new unity among the
colonists. Similarly, the tea party convinced many British sympathizers that colonial protesters had become a violent rabble who had to pay a steep price for their
inexcusable crimes. General Thomas Gage counseled his superiors in London that
the colonists would “be lions whilst we are lambs, but if we take the resolute part,
they will be very meek.”3
Washington was in Williamsburg when the thunderclap of the Boston Port Bill
burst over the colony. He also learned that three thousand redcoats had landed in
Boston, fortifying Gage’s position. During the French and Indian War, Gage had
written warmly to Washington, “It gave me great pleasure to hear from a person
of whom the world has justly so good an opinion and for whom I have so great
an esteem.”4 Such fraternal sentiments between imperial warriors now belonged
to a vanished world. Washington blasted military rule in Boston as “unexampled
testimony of the most despotic system of tyranny that ever was practiced in a free
gov[ernmen]t.”5 He and his fellow burgesses enlisted the Lord on their side, declaring that June 1, the day of the port’s closure, should be observed “as a day of fasting,
humiliation, and prayer.”6 In what was fast becoming a ritual, Dunmore dissolved
the House of Burgesses. That very morning Washington had breakfasted with the
governor at his farm outside Williamsburg. It was now plain that the rights of the
burgesses dangled by a slender thread that could be severed at will by the golden
shears wielded by the all-powerful royal governor.
The next day Washington and other militant burgesses moved to their familiar
resort, the Raleigh Tavern, where they poured forth scorn for the Boston Port Bill,
ratiﬁed a boycott of tea, and endorsed an annual congress with other colonies to

A Shock of Electricity r! 16 7

protect their collective rights. They reached the critical conclusion that an assault
on one colony was an assault on all. In this crazily illogical world, Washington and
other burgesses threw a ball that evening to welcome the governor’s wife. Quite
obviously this was no typical revolt of the poor or dispossessed, but a ﬁssure at the
pinnacle of the social structure, involving men long accustomed to rule. Washington was one of twenty-ﬁve burgesses still lingering in Williamsburg in late May
when a letter arrived from Samuel Adams, beseeching the Virginians to discontinue
trade with England. The legislators decided to cease all imports and reconvene on
August 1.
Land was never far from George Washington’s thoughts, and he smarted at new
British policies that curtailed speculative activities. The Quebec Act transferred the
Great Lakes and territory north of the Ohio River to Catholic Quebec, restricting
the acreage available to Virginians. Still more jarring was a ruling from London
that land grants to French and Indian War veterans under the 1763 proclamation
would be limited to British regulars, discriminating against colonial ofﬁcers and
reopening an ancient wound for Washington. “I conceive the services of a provincial ofﬁcer as worthy of reward as a regular one and [it] can only be withheld from
him with injustice,” he observed with contempt.7 As we have seen, the ambitious
Washington took these slights personally, and they now tipped him over the edge
into open revolt.
To gauge opinion before the August meeting of the burgesses, Washington
chaired a gathering of his Alexandria constituents on July 5. Their response to the
Boston turmoil was both swift and decisive: they agreed to send 273 pounds sterling, 38 barrels of ﬂour, and 150 bushels of wheat to “the industrious poor of the
town of Boston . . . who by a late cruel act of Parliament are deprived of their daily
labor and bread.”8 Having dissolved the burgesses, Governor Dunmore ordered
new elections, and Washington engaged in the bread and circuses of a fresh campaign on July 17, a gaudy spectacle at odds with the high-minded rhetoric in the air.
One observer related how Washington and his ally, Major Charles Broadwater, gave
Alexandria voters “a hogshead of toddy,” or punch, followed by a ball that evening
that was punctilious in its choice of beverages: “Coffee and chocolate, but no tea.
This herb is in disgrace amongst them at present.”9 Washington and Broadwater
were swept into ofﬁce.
On Sunday, July 17, Colonel George Mason arrived at Mount Vernon for an
overnight stay, and he and Washington reﬁned a list of twenty-four resolutions
that he had brought. The next day the resolutions were presented to their Fairfax
County committee and, with Washington in the chair, adopted with minor changes.
These Fairfax Resolves, as they became known, reﬂected the views of the “Country
Party” of landed British gentry, who had protested what they saw as the corruption

168

r! The Pl a nter

of Britain’s constitution by venal politicians during Robert Walpole’s ministry earlier in the century. The resolves argued that people should obey only laws enacted
by their chosen representatives or else “the government must degenerate either into
an absolute and despotic monarchy or a tyrannical aristocracy.” Another resolution
stated that “taxation and representation are in their nature inseparable.” Still another called for an intercolonial congress to guarantee a common defense. Perhaps
the most surprising resolution passed under Washington’s watchful eye was a plea
to suspend the importation of slaves into Virginia, along with a fervent wish “to
see an entire stop forever put to such a wicked, cruel, and unnatural trade.”10 It was
the ﬁrst time Washington had publicly registered his disgust with the system that
formed the basis of his fortune. Because of surplus slaves in Virginia, the resolution
wasn’t quite as courageous as it appeared and caused no immediate change in behavior at Mount Vernon. When the Fairfax County citizenry met at the Alexandria
Court House on July 18, in what Washington described as a mood of “hurry and
bustle,” they adopted the Fairfax Resolves and named Washington head of a twentyﬁve-member committee to chart future policy responses.11
With the Fairfax Resolves, Washington emerged as a signiﬁcant political leader
a full year before being named to head the Continental Army. No fence-sitter, this
conservative planter was a true militant. When the Boston Gazette printed the Fairfax Resolves, Washington’s renown reverberated through the colonies for the ﬁrst
time since the French and Indian War. During this period he allowed his heated
opinions to bubble up and boil over as his pronouncements grew more vehement.
Later on he had to muzzle his public views for the sake of continental harmony, but
during the summer of 1774 he had no qualms about expressing open militance. He
scoffed at the notion that the forthcoming congress should submit more petitions
to the king when so many had failed: “Shall we, after this, whine and cry for relief?”12 His slumbering conscience was now fully awakened. All the petty indignities
that he had endured at British hands exploded in revolutionary rage as his personal
pique was sublimated into something much grander. As the historian Joseph Ellis
notes, George Mason probably helped Washington “to develop a more expansive
vocabulary to express his thoughts and feelings, but the thoughts, and even more so
the feelings, had been brewing inside him for more than twenty years.”13

No t su r pr isi ngly the acrimonious quarrel with the Crown strained Washington’s relations with the family that had long embodied for him the British Empire,
the Fairfaxes. In August 1773, shortly after Patsy’s death, George William and Sally
Fairfax had sailed to England to pursue a complex inheritance suit in chancery
in London. George and Martha Washington were the last people to see them off,

A Shock of Electricity r! 16 9

waving farewell at the dock. By this point Sally Fairfax had entered into a period of
chronic health problems, including a brush with smallpox. As it turned out, she and
her husband never returned to Virginia or set eyes on the Washingtons again. Despite the manifold demands on his time, Washington agreed to oversee the Fairfax
affairs in Virginia and got a power of attorney to do so—an act of friendship that
lasted until he took command of the Continental Army. The Fairfaxes must have
known that their farewell might be irrevocable because they gave Washington the
authority to auction off Belvoir’s furniture. It is hard to imagine that the commotion shaking the colonies played no part in their decision to decamp to England,
but George William claimed to be an ardent friend of the patriotic cause and denied any political motivation behind their trip.
During the summer of 1774 Washington unburdened his thoughts freely to
the Fairfaxes. Black with gloom, he wrote despondently to George William that
the Crown was failing to protect Virginia from “cruel and bloodthirsty” Indians
in the backcountry, while simultaneously “endeavoring by every piece of art and
despotism to ﬁx the shackles of slavery upon us.”14 He made clear that the “cause
of Boston . . . now is and ever will be consider[e]d as the cause of America . . . and
that we shall not suffer ourselves to be sacriﬁced by piecemeal, though God only
knows what is to become of us.”15 Further souring his mood was that a bitter winter
frost had given way to an equally bitter drought. In short, Washington concluded,
“since the ﬁrst settlem[en]t of this colony the minds of people in it never were more
disturbed, or our situation so critical, as at present.”16
Washington went on corresponding with George William as if communicating
with a kindred spirit. Far different was his tense standoff with his longtime friend
Bryan Fairfax, the half brother of George William and a former lieutenant in Washington’s Virginia Regiment. Bryan Fairfax was a grave, austere fellow. In June 1774,
when Washington had tried to coax his old foxhunting companion into running
with him for the House of Burgesses, it became clear that a political gulf yawned between them. On July 4 Washington sent Bryan a letter that was neither soft-spoken
nor conciliatory. Instead of ducking politics out of respect for their friendship, Washington gave an unusually forthright statement of his beliefs. As if the scales had
fallen from his eyes, he embraced a conspiratorial view of British intentions. The
Crown’s policies weren’t just fumbling or misguided but were part of a settled design to rob the colonists of their ancient liberties. “Does it not appear, as clear as the
sun in its meridian brightness, that there is a regular, systematic plan formed to ﬁx
the right and practice of taxation upon us? . . . Ought we not then to put our virtue
and fortitude to the severest test?”17 George Washington passed here some personal
Rubicon. Remarkably, in this ﬁerce letter he argued that the colonists should refrain
from purchasing British imports, but not renege on paying debts owed to British

170

r! The Pl a nter

creditors, “for I think, whilst we are accusing others of injustice, we should be just
ourselves.”18 It was this steadfast sense of fairness, even at the most feverish political
moments, that set George Washington apart.
When Bryan Fairfax sent Washington a lengthy reply, defending petitions as
the only legitimate means of protest, the hot-blooded Washington didn’t mince
words. On July 20 he sent Bryan a truculent letter that recounted the many colonial
petitions spurned by Parliament, which had violated both the “law of nature and
our constitution . . . I think the Parliament of Great Britain hath no more right to
put their hands into my pocket without my consent than I have to put my hands
in yours for money.”19 Instead of more petitions, Washington endorsed the nonimportation scheme, “for I am convinc[e]d, as much as I am of my existence, that
there is no relief for us but in their distress; and I think, at least I hope, that there is
public virtue enough left among us to deny ourselves everything but the bare necessaries of life to accomplish this end.”20 Washington said he would mistrust his own
judgment if he didn’t recoil “at the thought of submitting to measures which I think
subversive of everything that I ought to hold dear and valuable.”21 Washington’s
vision abruptly seemed richer and broader, his words now throbbing with passion.
His letters to Bryan Fairfax make clear that, even though he didn’t originate political ideas, he was a quick study who soaked them up rapidly, as he was coached by
George Mason and other colonial leaders. His sudden eloquence is striking, as his
ideas were forged in the crucible of powerful emotions. In a ﬁnal blast at Fairfax
late that summer, Washington wrote that “an innate spirit of freedom ﬁrst told me
that the measures which [the] administration hath for sometime been, and now
are, most violently pursuing are repugnant to every principle of natural justice,
whilst much abler heads than my own hath fully convinced me that it is not only
repugnant to natural right, but subversive of the laws and constitution of Great
Britain itself.”22
By this point George Washington knew that a clash with the mother country
was almost inevitable. For that reason, the auction of Belvoir’s effects in August
and December must have carried heavy symbolic overtones for him. For reasons
of pride, status, and undoubtedly nostalgia, George Washington bought more than
half of the Fairfax furniture, everything from window curtains to candlesticks to
a bust of Shakespeare. He indulged his old penchant for mahogany, the expensive
wood that signiﬁed wealth in the colonies. It must have been a melancholy task for
Washington to see Belvoir’s furnishings dismantled, ending the aristocratic world
that had shaped his early dreams.
As the old world emptied out, a new one was being born that August in Williamsburg, where the rebel burgesses, trained in self-government, reconstituted
themselves as the Virginia Convention. “We never before had so full a meeting . . .

A Shock of Electricity r! 1 7 1

as on the present occasion,” Washington exulted, as more than one hundred delegates attended.23 Within a week, the delegates had thrashed out a plan aligned with
the Fairfax Resolves, thrusting Washington into the forefront of the action. They
agreed to set up an association that would ban imports beginning in November
and, if Great Britain still refused to redress their grievances, tobacco exports after
August 1775. They also issued a stinging indictment of the arbitrary behavior in
Boston of Washington’s old colleague General Gage.
On Friday, August 5, 1774, George Washington’s life changed forever when he was
elected one of seven Virginia delegates to the general congress that would meet in
Philadelphia, to be known as the First Continental Congress. When these statesmen
were selected, Jefferson said, a “shock of electricity” ﬂew through the air.24 The vote
underscored the dramatic elevation of Washington’s standing: he trailed Speaker
Peyton Randolph by only a few votes and received nine votes more than the superlative orator Patrick Henry. Before leaving Williamsburg, Washington obtained a
copy of Jefferson’s pamphlet A Summary View of the Rights of British America, which
took dead aim at the notion that the colonies existed to beneﬁt the mother country.
Jefferson ended with a dire warning for George III: “Kings are the servants, not the
proprietors of the people. Open your breast, Sire, to liberal and expanded thought.
Let not the name of George the Third be a blot in the page of history.”25

O n August 3 0 , 17 74 , two inﬂuential burgesses, Patrick Henry and Edmund
Pendleton, spent the night at Mount Vernon before departing with Washington
and his manservant, Billy Lee, for the First Continental Congress. They left on a
sultry, windless morning, and Martha Washington, infused with martial spirit, saw
them off like a good, self-sacriﬁcing matron from antiquity. Edmund Pendleton left
an indelible portrait of Martha’s unwavering commitment: “She seemed ready to
make any sacriﬁce and was cheerful, though I know she felt anxious. She talked like
a Spartan mother to her son on going to battle. ‘I hope you will stand ﬁrm—I know
George will,’ she said. The dear little woman was busy from morning until night
with domestic duties, but she gave us much time in conversation and affording us
entertainment. When we set off in the morning, she stood in the door and cheered
us with the good words, ‘God be with you gentlemen.’”26 It was a courageous show
on the part of a woman who had already buried a husband and three children, the
last of whom had died little more than a year before.
The three travelers rode into Philadelphia on September 4. The next morning
they repaired to the City Tavern, where delegates decided to hold their meetings in
Carpenters’ Hall. The choice of the jowly Peyton Randolph to chair the Congress
furnished Washington with a potent ally. He’d had business as well as political deal-

172

r! The Pl a nter

ings with Randolph, having loaned him 250 pounds a few years earlier, and Randolph had been one of four people assigned to monitor Washington’s handling of
the Custis estate for the General Court.
The taciturn Washington, at forty-two, found himself in an assembly of splendid talkers who knew how to pontiﬁcate on every subject. John Adams left this
slightly mocking commentary on the verbose gathering: “Every man in it is a great
man—an orator, a critic, a statesman, and therefore every man upon every question must show his oratory, his criticism, and his political abilities.”27 Relegated
to a secondary role, the modest, retiring Washington wasn’t appointed to either
of the two new committees: one on colonial rights, the other on trade policy with
Great Britain. Nonetheless, in this conclave of talkative egomaniacs, Washington’s
understated style had an inevitable appeal. Amid gifted talkers, he was a masterful
listener who characterized his role as that of “an attentive observer and witness.”28
It was slowly becoming clear that, in a fractious, boisterous gathering, a calm ﬁgure
of sound judgment such as Washington could inspire conﬁdence and serve as a
unifying ﬁgure.
Amid much overheated rhetoric, Washington spoke hard, plain truths. Silas
Deane of Connecticut reported home that the stony-faced George Washington had
a “hard countenance” and was “a tolerable speaker . . . who speaks very modestly
in a cool but determined style and accent.”29 A Virginian praised Washington as “a
man noted as well for his good sense as his bravery.”30 From Washington’s recent
letters to Bryan Fairfax, we know that he could serve up impassioned language,
so that his reticence in Philadelphia reﬂected not simply a circumspect personality but a ﬁne-tuned political instinct. On the surface, Washington may have been
cool and phlegmatic, but he was ﬁery underneath, blasting the British as “diabolic
contrivers.”31
The specter of military action preoccupied delegates who sized up Washington
as a prospective commander in chief. There was an esprit de corps about Washington and his self-assured Virginians. According to John Adams, the Virginians
“were the most spirited” people in the hall, and one Pennsylvanian said that, in
comparison, “the Bostonians are mere milksops.”32 The delegates swapped tales
of Washington’s youthful exploits in the French and Indian War, with Silas Deane
writing excitedly home that Washington “was in the ﬁrst actions in 1753 and 1754
on the Ohio and in 1755 was with Braddock and was the means of saving the remains of that unfortunate army.”33 In an inspired mood, Dr. Solomon Drowne of
Rhode Island composed a martial tribute in verse to Washington: “With manly
gait / His faithful steel suspended by his side, / Pass’d W-shi-gt-n along, Virginia’s
hero.” People buttonholed him and pressed him to accept the army command, if
offered. While hoping to avert bloodshed, Washington warned one correspondent

A Shock of Electricity r! 1 7 3

that “more blood will be spilt on this occasion (if the ministry are determined to
push matters to extremity) than history has ever yet furnished instances of in the
annals of North America.”34
Increasingly a seasoned politician, gifted with a light touch, Colonel Washington seemed to know that self-promotion would only backﬁre among delegates who,
by the nature of their revolt, possessed heightened fears of power-hungry leaders.
The last thing they wanted was a general who pushed himself forward too overtly.
As stories about Washington swirled around the Congress, he let them do the talking. Thomas Lynch of South Carolina told John Adams that Washington “had made
the most eloquent speech at the Virginia Convention that ever was made. Says he,
‘I will raise 1000 men, subsist them at my own expense, and march myself at their
head for the relief of Boston.’ ”35 That the rumor mill churned out such a thrilling
(and likely apocryphal) tale about Washington foreshadowed the verdict of the following spring.
Washington worked the First Continental Congress like a mature candidate.
He turned ecumenical in his churchgoing habits, attending services at Presbyterian, Quaker, Roman Catholic, and a pair of Anglican churches. With the weather
consistently ﬁne and clear, he socialized assiduously in the evenings, dining out in
thirty-one private homes in two months and scarcely ever sticking to his lodgings.
He became a habitué of something called the Governor’s Club, summarized by one
visitor as “a select number of gentlemen that meet every night at a certain tavern,
where they pass away a few hours in the pleasures of conversation and a cheerful
glass.”36 With his compulsion to record his everyday life, Washington asked Lund
Washington to send on his diary, disguised for safekeeping as a letter. “It will be
found, I presume, on my writing table,” he wrote. “Put it under a good strong paper
cover, sealed up as a letter.”37
Washington showed a knack for expanding his network of acquaintances, meeting with “Farmer” John Dickinson and befriending two young Philadelphians—
merchant Thomas Mifﬂin and lawyer Joseph Reed—who later served as his aides.
Along with John Adams, Washington received a memorable guided tour of the
Pennsylvania Hospital from Dr. William Shippen, Jr. The ﬁnest hospital in the
colonies, it still had a vaguely medieval air, as Adams noted: “We saw in the lower
rooms underground the cells of the lunatics . . . some furious, some merry, some
melancholy.”38 An inveterate shopper, Washington also took time to buy a cloak for
his mother and a pocketbook for his wife. This conservative revolutionary decided
that Billy Lee should dress a little more fashionably for the historic occasion and
plunked down ﬁfteen shillings for new shoes for his slave.
The First Continental Congress balked at the still-radical idea of independence,
and George Washington expressed the predominant mood when he declared ﬂatly,

1 74

r! The Pl a nter

“I am well satisﬁed, as I can be of my existence, that no such thing is desired by
any thinking man in all North America; on the contrary, that it is the ardent wish
of the warmest advocates for liberty that peace and tranquillity, upon constitutional grounds, may be restored and the horrors of civil discord prevented.”39 The
delegates clung to the pleasing ﬁction that a benevolent George III was being undermined by treacherous ministers, and they implored the king as their “loving
father” to rouse himself and rescue his colonial subjects. Going beyond mere words,
they set up a Continental Association (hence the name Continental Congress) that
would block imports sooner, and exports later, from and to Great Britain. To police this agreement, delegates called for creation of local enforcement committees,
which could spawn militias if necessary. They also vowed to “wholly discontinue
the slave trade” and “discourage every species of extravagance and dissipation, especially all horse-racing, and all kinds of gaming, cock-ﬁghtings, exhibitions of
shows, plays, and other expensive diversions and entertainments.”40 This emphasis
on moral reformation could only have assisted the likelihood that the clean-living
Washington would become commander in chief. An exceptionally conscientious
delegate, he was one of only two Virginia delegates still in Philadelphia when the
First Continental Congress adjourned on October 26, 1774.
On October 30 George Washington was back at Mount Vernon, where the most
urgent matter claiming his attention was the sale of property owned by his business
partner George Mercer, then in woeful ﬁnancial straits. Several weeks later Washington conducted a sale of property, including ninety slaves, from Mercer’s plantation at Bull Run Mountains. “The Negroes, horses, and stock have all sold exceeding
high,” Washington reported after the auction.41 It shows the schizophrenic nature
of Washington’s world that he was auctioning off slaves in the immediate aftermath
of the First Continental Congress, which had endorsed an end to importing slaves.
Ditto for Washington’s action in February 1775, when he paid ﬁfty-two pounds “for
value of a Negro boy Tom,” whom he sent off to his western lands.42
While Washington was in Philadelphia, one hundred neighbors in Fairfax
County, under the tutelage of George Mason, had organized themselves into a voluntary militia—probably the ﬁrst in the colony—electing Washington their commander. Borrowing the colors of the English Whig party, the Fairfax Independent
Company wore blue uniforms with buff facings and white stockings. Their military gear was a curious hybrid of European and American traditions: they carried
bayonets and cartridge boxes for muskets right along with tomahawks. Washington
knew of the unit’s formation while he was still in Philadelphia, for they had asked
him to order drums, ﬁfes, and halberds. To that he added his own personal order
for a silk sash, gorgets, epaulettes, and a copy of Thomas Webb’s A Military Treatise
on the Appointments of the Army. Across Virginia, Washington rejoiced, men were

A Shock of Electricity r! 1 7 5

“forming themselves into independent companies, choosing their ofﬁcers, arming,
equipping, and training for the worst event.”43 As groups of militia sprang up, they
clamored for Washington as their commander. Now ubiquitous in the cause, he
accepted the ﬁeld command of four independent companies: in Prince William,
Fauquier, Richmond, and Spotsylvania counties. It is striking how forthright Washington had become. In January the Virginia Gazette thanked the aspiring hero in a
quatrain: “In spite of Gage’s ﬂaming sword / And Carleton’s Canadian troop / Brave
Washington shall give the word, / And we’ll make them howl and whoop.”44
During the winter of 1774–75 Washington and Mason did everything they could
to strengthen the Fairfax militia, even advancing it money for ammunition. In order
to be reimbursed, they and other local leaders decided to levy a three-shilling poll
tax on Fairfax County citizens “for the common beneﬁt, protection and defense of
the inhabitants.”45 The residents had little choice but to pay this “voluntary” tax: the
local sheriff, among others, would collect the money, and laggards would be stigmatized on a special list. The poll tax was a highly coercive measure. Even amid the
hubbub of revolutionary activity, Washington remained rather testy about money,
accusing Mason of collecting money from those prepared to pay and leaving him
“to scufﬂe as he could with the rest.” Mason grew incensed at the notion that he
wasn’t going to share all proceeds equally: “It cannot but give me concern that I
should be thought capable of such disingenuous conduct.”46 As chairman of the
Fairfax County Committee, Washington expanded defensive preparations by urging residents to form sixty-eight-man companies and study military science. The
joint efforts of Washington and Mason helped to convert Fairfax County into a
rabid center of resistance to British rule.
In late December 1774 the arrogant, irascible Charles Lee arrived for a sixday visit to Mount Vernon. He was a painfully thin man with a small head set
on a spindly body. Born in England, Lee had served as a major in the French
and Indian War, then fought as a mercenary in various European wars before
sailing back to America in 1773. Haughty, imperious, and overﬂowing with opinions, Lee seldom had a kind word for anyone’s military talents except his own.
Versed in Greek and Latin, worldly and well traveled, he had a razor-sharp wit
and must have made Washington feel a bit insular in comparison. This eccentric
and notably slovenly man was always trailed by his beloved dogs. “When I can
be convinced that men are as worthy objects as dogs,” he once explained, “I shall
transfer my benevolence to them.”47 It was widely thought that the ambitious Lee
had set his sights on the job of commander in chief, but he disclaimed any such
intention. “To think myself qualiﬁed for the most important charge that ever was
committed to mortal man is the last stage of presumption” was how he put it in
a letter to Edmund Burke.48

176

r! The Pl a nter

In March 1775 Washington was summoned to Richmond to attend the Second Virginia Convention, held at Henrico Parish Church, an Anglican house of
worship. This meeting ratiﬁed the resolutions of the First Continental Congress
and applauded the work of the seven Virginia delegates. Patrick Henry argued that
British troops intended to enslave the colonies, and he set pulses racing with his
ﬂaming response: “Is life so dear, or peace so sweet, as to be purchased at the price
of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course others may
take, but as for me, give me liberty or give me death!”49 Buoyed by these words,
the convention agreed that Virginia should be placed in “a posture of defense.”50
Along with Henry, Washington was named to a committee that recommended raising volunteer companies in every county; he served on another that was instructed
to “prepare a plan for the encouragement of arts and manufactures in this colony.”51
Such was Washington’s new preeminence that when the gathering chose seven
members to attend the Second Continental Congress, Washington was the second
one named, ahead of Patrick Henry and superseded only by Peyton Randolph. The
vote was overwhelming, as he received 106 of 108 votes cast. On the same day, as
if struck by a sudden premonition of what was about to happen in Philadelphia,
Washington wrote to his brother Jack that “it is my full intention to devote my life
and fortune in the cause we are engaged in.”52
It is astonishing that Washington, having long brooded over money as he built
up his fortune, should now be willing to hazard all on this highly speculative rebellion. The death of Patsy Custis had brieﬂy afforded some ﬁnancial relief, but the
anxiety over money had quickly returned. A few weeks earlier, when his brother
Jack asked to borrow two hundred pounds, George had turned him down cold,
saying “I would gladly borrow that sum myself for a few months, so exceedingly
difﬁcult do I ﬁnd it, under the present scarcity of cash, to collect enough to answer
this emergency and at the same time comply with my other engagements.”53
Although George Washington scarcely needed further reasons to detest British
rule, Lord Dunmore inﬂicted one last blow. Back at Mount Vernon, Washington
heard a distressing report that Dunmore planned to annul the land patents that
Washington had received under the 1754 proclamation. Seizing upon a technicality,
the royal governor claimed that Washington’s surveyor, William Crawford, was improperly qualiﬁed. When Washington asked for clariﬁcation, Dunmore conﬁrmed
the worst, stating that “the surveyor who surveyed those lands did not qualify
agreeable to the act of assembly directing the duty and qualiﬁcation of surveyors.”54
This appalling decision, if upheld, would strip Washington of 23,000 acres of land.
He told Dunmore that he found the decision “incredible,” citing the enormous time
and expense consumed by the nulliﬁed surveys.55 Washington didn’t buckle under pressure from Dunmore. As Douglas Southall Freeman notes, “If Washington

A Shock of Electricity r! 1 7 7

suspected blackmail or reprisal, it did not deter him from a single act of military
preparation or from the utterance of a word he would have spoken in aid of the
colonial cause.”56
That April it momentarily seemed as if an early chapter of the Revolutionary
War would be written in Virginia. Lord Dunmore feared that one of the new militia
companies might grab gunpowder stored in a Williamsburg magazine. To forestall
this possibility, he had marines who were attached to the armed British schooner
Magdalen empty ﬁfteen barrels of gunpowder from the magazine, load them on a
wagon, and abscond to a man-of-war anchored off Norfolk. To universal disbelief,
Dunmore contended that he had removed the gunpowder to deal with a slave revolt
and vowed to bring it back if needed to defend the colony. When enraged patriots
threatened to invade the governor’s palace, George Washington counseled caution
and advised the ﬁve independent companies under his command not to march on
Williamsburg. The young James Madison, twenty-four, condemned Washington
and his ilk for having “discovered a pusillanimity little comporting with their professions or the name of Virginian” and blamed the fact that their “property will be
exposed in case of civil war.”57 As a military man, Washington knew how indomitable the British military machine was and how quixotic a full-scale revolution would
be. As he later said of America’s chances in the spring of 1775, “It was known that . . .
the expense in comparison with our circumstances as colonists must be enormous,
the struggle protracted, dubious, and severe. It was known that the resources of
Britain were, in a manner, inexhaustible, that her ﬂeets covered the ocean, and that
her troops had harvested laurels in every quarter of the globe . . . Money, the nerve
of war, was wanting.” But the colonists had something much more precious: “the
unconquerable resolution of our citizens, the conscious rectitude of our cause, and
a conﬁdent trust that we should not be forsaken by heaven.”58

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
pa r t t hr e e

The General

George Washington at Princeton,
painted by Charles Willson Peale in 1779.

chapter sixteen

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

T he Glorious Cause

Be for e set t i ng ou t for the Second Continental Congress, Samuel Adams
and John Hancock decided to spend a quiet weekend in hiding in Lexington, Massachusetts. On April 14, 1775, General Gage received instructions from London to
arrest these ringleaders of the insurgency, and he planned to seize a powder magazine in nearby Concord as well. Patriotic forces were tipped off to this raid, whereupon Paul Revere galloped off to alert Adams and Hancock. When overwhelming
British forces descended on Lexington Green on April 19, they were confronted by
a small but doughty band of volunteers. The historic shots were ﬁred, killing eight
Americans and wounding ten more before the British, having lost only one horse,
moved on to Concord. When the redcoats marched back to Boston, however, they
were suddenly engulfed on all sides by armed farmers, known as Minute Men, who
shot with deadly accuracy, shielded by trees, buildings, and fences. By the time the
frantic British troops had scrambled back to town, 273 had been killed or wounded
versus only 95 colonials. As John Adams proclaimed with self-evident truth, “The
battle of Lexington on the 19th of April changed the instruments of warfare from
the pen to the sword.”1
George Washington was sobered and dismayed by the shocking news; there
was nothing bloodthirsty in his nature. As he lamented to George William Fairfax, “Unhappy it is . . . to reﬂect that a brother’s sword has been sheathed in a
brother’s breast and that the once happy and peaceful plains of America are either
to be drenched with blood or inhabited by slaves.”2 He fathomed the full import
of what had happened. As he had already regretted to a friend a year earlier, he
wished “the dispute had been left to posterity to determine, but the crisis is ar-

1 82

r! The Gener a l

rived, when we must assert our rights or submit to every imposition that can be
heaped upon us.”3
As the colonies submitted to a frenzy of military preparation, young men everywhere grabbed muskets and formed militias. Like others committed to the
cause, Washington brushed up on warfare and dipped into military volumes. For
all his frontier experience, he was still a neophyte when it came to large-scale conﬂict. In the weeks before he left for the Second Continental Congress, the early
leadership of the Continental Army began to coalesce on his doorstep, as if power
were already shifting toward him. Charles Lee came for dinner, as did another, unrelated Lee named Henry—later celebrated as Light-Horse Harry Lee—who was
nineteen and had graduated from Princeton the previous fall, specializing in Latin.
Another military ﬁgure spending the night at Mount Vernon was Horatio Gates,
a British ofﬁcer who had been wounded during the Braddock campaign. He was
a ruddy, thickset man, with a large, aquiline nose and long hair ﬂowing over his
shoulders from a receding hairline. After rising to the rank of major in England,
he had returned to Virginia and bought a plantation in the Shenandoah Valley. As
Washington was to discover, Gates had more than a trace of egotism and duplicity
in his nature.
On May 4, 1775, George Washington climbed into his chariot, which was guided
by a coachman and a postilion (an elegant conveyance for the future leader of a
revolutionary army), and sped north. He was probably joined by his friend Richard
Henry Lee, a talented orator and fellow burgess. In his diary Washington recorded
drily, “Set out for the Congress at Phila.” and described the spring weather as “very
warm indeed, with but little wind and clear.”4 Had he foreseen the many tempestuous years that would elapse before he again set eyes on his cherished estate, he
might have gazed back longingly. En route to Baltimore, Washington and Lee encountered other coaches hastening to the same destination, a swelling column of
southern delegates that included Peyton Randolph, Edmund Pendleton, and Benjamin Harrison of Virginia and Joseph Hewes and Richard Caswell of North Carolina. Previewing things to come, Baltimore’s citizens asked Washington to review
four volunteer companies on the town common. The southern delegates must have
already felt a palpable crescendo of excitement as they approached Philadelphia, for
six miles outside of town they were greeted by a throng of ﬁve hundred people on
horseback—ofﬁcers, town dignitaries, and curiosity seekers—who had ridden out
as a welcoming party. Two miles from town they were embraced by a lively patriotic
band and a spirited honor guard of foot and riﬂe companies, so that they streamed
into Philadelphia enfolded in an extemporaneous parade. On the same day John
Hancock, Samuel Adams, and John Adams rolled in from the north.
Held in the immediate aftermath of Lexington and Concord and favored with

The Glorious Cause r! 1 83

ﬁne spring weather, the Second Continental Congress was supercharged with an atmosphere of high drama that made the ﬁrst seem somnolent in comparison. Many
delegates were already in a warlike mood. On May 9 a Loyalist named Samuel Curwen stayed up till midnight talking with Washington, whom he found “a ﬁne ﬁgure
and of most easy and agreeable address,” and they discussed ways to block British
ships from coming up the Delaware River to occupy Philadelphia. As he recorded
sadly in his journal, he found a determined Washington, in no mood to bend to
the British: “I could not perceive the least disposition to accommodate matters or
even risk.”5
For this Congress the delegates met in a lofty ground-ﬂoor chamber of the redbrick State House, surmounted by a high steeple, today known as Independence
Hall. In this gracious neoclassical setting, the president’s chair was ﬂanked by ﬂuted
pilasters, and the doors were topped by pediments. Whereas the First Congress had
dwelled on diplomatic niceties, this one turned briskly to matters of war. Meeting
in secret sessions, delegates heard reports that Great Britain had rebuffed conciliatory overtures from the earlier Congress and that more British troops were crossing
the Atlantic. They also learned that Massachusetts was prepared to raise 13,600 soldiers, and that New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Connecticut would contribute
troops in the same proportion; already patriotic militias and volunteers from across
New England had congregated on the Cambridge Common outside Boston. There
was no talk as yet of a commander in chief, for the simple reason that the Congress
still regarded itself as representing a collection of colonies, not a sovereign nation.
In this civilian conclave, Washington stood out for his martial air and naturally
majestic aura. As if to signal his availability for military duty and with an instinctive sense of theater, he came clad in the blue and buff uniform of the Fairfax militia, sewn by Andrew Judge, an indentured servant at Mount Vernon. More than a
militant statement, it was an inspiring sign of southern solidarity with New England soldiers. People were transﬁxed by Washington’s lean, virile presence. “Colonel
Washington appears at Congress in his uniform,” wrote John Adams, “and by his
great experience and abilities in military matters is of much service to us.”6 Washington had the inestimable advantage of fully looking the part of a military leader.
As Benjamin Rush stated, “He has so much martial dignity in his deportment that
you would distinguish him to be a general and a soldier from among ten thousand
people. There is not a king in Europe that would not look like a valet de chambre
by his side.”7
Clearly, for these rank amateurs in warfare, Washington’s military résumé was
neither sketchy nor irrelevant—and he was suddenly deemed the fountainhead of
wisdom. A marginal ﬁgure at the earlier Congress, Washington was drafted onto
nine committees and inserted into every cranny of decision making. Some of

1 84

r! The Gener a l

Washington’s committees dealt with purely military questions, such as how to defend New York, while others reﬂected his broad range of knowledge, such as how
to print a new American currency. Each day he dined at the City Tavern with eight
other delegates, helping to expand his circle of admirers.
The Congress still lacked a consensus about declaring independence from Great
Britain, favoring a purely defensive posture instead of initiating hostilities. The delegates were both thrilled and ﬂustered by news that colonial troops, spearheaded
by Ethan Allen and Benedict Arnold, had overrun a British garrison at Fort Ticonderoga on Lake Champlain in upstate New York, producing a huge windfall of cannon and military stores. An ambivalent Congress vowed to return the fort to Great
Britain after “the restoration of the former harmony” that the Congress “so ardently
wished for.”8 The northern colonies protested, regarding the fort as a necessary bulwark against a British invasion from Canada. As evidenced by his uniform, Washington was dubious about reconciliation, but he continued, at least for the record,
to support measures to resolve the conﬂict amicably. Chances for a happy outcome
dimmed on May 25 when the frigate Cerberus, bearing thirty-two guns, arrived
in Boston Harbor, and three major generals in the British Army—John Burgoyne,
Henry Clinton, and William Howe—stepped ashore. Washington clung to the wistful hope that Parliament, not the king, was to blame for these measures, telling
George William Fairfax on May 31 that “we do not, nor cannot yet prevail upon
ourselves to call them the king’s troops.”9
On May 24 Peyton Randolph had to return to the Virginia assembly and was replaced as president by John Hancock of Massachusetts. When the Congress agreed
in early June to buy gunpowder “for the Continental Army,” the ragtag forces facing
the British in Boston were still composed exclusively of New England militias.10
Then on June 14 the Congress gave the conﬂict a more sweeping complexion by
authorizing ten companies from Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia to march
north and reinforce those regional troops. There arose a sudden need for a commander to direct the disparate units and meld them into an effective ﬁghting
force. The senior ﬁgure in Cambridge was then Artemas Ward, a storekeeper from
Shrewsbury, Massachusetts, whom Charles Lee ridiculed as “a fat old gentleman
who had been a popular churchwarden.”11 While not everybody was so dismissive
of the Harvard-educated Ward, few beyond New England considered him the ideal
man to shoulder the burden of the patriotic cause.
Since Virginia was the most populous colony, it seemed logical that the perfect
commander would hail from that state. Rich and ambitious John Hancock hoped
to use the Congress presidency as his springboard to the top military job, but even
some fellow New Englanders believed that, for the sake of political unity, a Virginian made eminently good sense. Both John and Samuel Adams regarded Washing-

The Glorious Cause r! 1 85

ton’s appointment as the political linchpin needed to bind the colonies together.
Many southerners feared that the New Englanders were a rash, obstinate people,
prone to extremism, and worried that an army led by a New England general might
someday turn despotic and conquer the South. The appointment of George Washington would soothe such fears and form a perfect political compromise between
North and South.
John Adams enjoyed the curious distinction of being Washington’s most important advocate at the Congress and one of his more severe detractors in later years.
Rather small and paunchy, with a sharp mind and an argumentative personality,
Adams was a farsighted prophet of independence, the curmudgeon who spoke uncomfortable truths. He later worried that when the history of the American Revolution was written, he would be consigned to the role of spear carrier, while George
Washington and Ben Franklin would be gloriﬁed as the real protagonists of the
drama. No less driven than Adams, Washington kept his ambition in check behind a
modest, laconic personality, whereas Adams’s ambition often seemed irrepressible.
In 1807 John Adams would write a scathingly funny letter in which he listed
the “ten talents” that had propelled George Washington to fame in June 1775. The
ﬁrst four dealt with physical attributes—“a handsome face,” “tall stature,” “an elegant form,” and “graceful attitudes and movements”—traits that the short, rotund
Adams decidedly lacked.12 Two others concerned Washington’s extraordinary selfpossession: “He possessed the gift of silence” and “He had great self-command.”13
Since Adams was neither guarded nor silent, he would have been especially sensitive
to these traits. He also saw that Washington exerted more power by withholding
opinions than by expressing them. Still another advantage was that Washington
was a Virginian, and “Virginian geese are all swans.”14 It also helped that Washington was wealthy—almost everyone at the Congress was mesmerized by his willingness to hazard his money in the cause: “There is nothing . . . to which mankind
bow down with more reverence than to great fortune.”15 The ideology of the day
claimed that property rendered a man more independent, which presumably made
Washington immune to British bribery.
When comparing Washington with other rivals for the top position—especially
Horatio Gates and Charles Lee—one sees that he had superior presence, inﬁnitely
better judgment, more political cunning, and unmatched gravitas. With nothing
arrogant or bombastic in his nature, he had the perfect temperament for leadership. He was also born in North America, which was considered essential. Endowed
with an enormous sense of responsibility, he inspired trust and conﬁdence. A man
of the happy medium, conciliatory by nature, he lent a reassuring conservatism
to the Revolution. Smoothly methodical and solidly reliable, he seemed not to
make mistakes. “He is a complete gentleman,” Thomas Cushing, a Massachusetts

1 86

r! The Gener a l

delegate, wrote about Washington. “He is sensible, amiable, virtuous, modest, and
brave.”16 The delegates favored Washington as much for the absence of conspicuous
weaknesses as for his manifest strengths. Eliphalet Dyer of Connecticut captured
Washington’s steady presence: “He seems discreet and virtuous, no harum-scarum,
ranting, swearing fellow, but sober, steady, and calm.”17 The hallmark of Washington’s career was that he didn’t seek power but let it come to him. “I did not solicit
the command,” he later said, “but accepted it after much entreaty.”18 No less important for a man who would have to answer to the Congress, he was a veteran
politician with sixteen years of experience as a burgess, ensuring that he would
subordinate himself to civilian control. Things seldom happened accidentally to
George Washington, but he managed them with such consummate skill that they
often seemed to happen accidentally. By 1775 he had a ﬁne sense of power—how to
gain it, how to keep it, how to wield it.

O n Ju n e 1 4 the Congress ofﬁcially took charge of the troops in Boston, giving
birth to the Continental Army and creating an urgent need for a commander in
chief. By this point the delegates were so impressed by the self-effacing Washington
that his appointment was virtually a fait accompli. As a Virginia delegate wrote
that day: “Col. Washington has been pressed to take the supreme command of the
American troops encamped at Roxbury and I believe will accept the appointment,
though with much reluctance, he being deeply impressed with the importance of
that honorable trust and difﬁdent of his own (superior) abilities.”19 The only serious competitor was Hancock, who had little military experience and was hobbled
by gout. When John Adams rose to speak and alluded to Washington, the latter
jumped up from his seat near the door and with “his usual modesty darted into
the library room,” recalled Adams.20 Expecting Adams to nominate him, Hancock
watched with smug satisfaction until Adams named Washington instead—at which
point the smile ﬂed from his face. “Mortiﬁcation and resentment were expressed as
forcibly as his face could exhibit them,” Adams said. “ . . . Mr. Hancock never loved
me so well after this event as he had done before.”21 That Washington handled the
moment with such tact, even as Hancock gave proof of patent egotism, only made
his circumspect manner the more appealing.
The delegates deferred the ﬁnal vote until the next day, when they passed a resolution “that a general be appointed to command all the continental forces raised, or
to be raised, for the defense of American liberty.”22 In the ensuing debate, the only
credible argument leveled against Washington was that the New England troops
deserved one of their own. But with both John and Sam Adams placing his name
in nomination, Washington was the tailor-made compromise candidate. “In the

The Glorious Cause r! 1 8 7

meantime,” recollected John Adams, “pains were taken out of doors to obtain a
unanimity and the voices were generally so clearly in favor of Washington that the
dissenting members were persuaded to withdraw their opposition.”23 Washington
was nominated by Thomas Johnson of Maryland and elected unanimously, initiating a long string of unanimous victories in his career.
Washington didn’t learn of his appointment until the Congress had adjourned
for the day, and suddenly he encountered delegates who saluted him as “General.”
In a twinkling, his world had changed forever. He was feted by delegates at a midday dinner, with Thomas Jefferson, thirty-two, and Benjamin Franklin, sixty-nine,
lifting glasses in a postprandial toast to “the Commander in Chief of the American
armies.” Washington, deeply moved, sat there abashed. As Benjamin Rush remembered, Washington “rose from his seat and with some confusion thanked the company for the honor they did him. The whole company instantly rose and drank the
toast standing. This scene, so unexpected, was a solemn one. A silence followed it, as
if every heart was penetrated with the awful but great events which were to follow
the use of the sword of liberty which had just been put into General Washington’s
hands by the unanimous voice of his country.”24 True to form, Washington devoted
the evening to a committee impaneled to draw up army regulations. In his diary
on that epochal day, Washington wrote simply: “Dined at Burns’s in the ﬁeld. Spent
the even[in]g on a committee.”25 Even in the privacy of his diary, Washington feared
any show of unseemly ambition.
On Friday morning, June 16, John Hancock ofﬁcially announced that George
Washington had been chosen “General and Commander in Chief of the army of
the United Colonies.”26 Washington stood humbly at his seat during his reply. There
was to be no chest-thumping from the new commander; this wasn’t the Man on
Horseback that every good republican dreaded. “Mr President,” he said, “tho[ugh]
I am truly sensible of the high honor done me in this appointment, yet I feel great
distress from a consciousness that my abilities and military experience may not be
equal to the extensive and important trust. However, as the congress desire it, I will
enter upon the momentous duty and exert every power I possess in their service
and for the support of the glorious cause.” Washington’s speech was rife with disclaimers; he had long ago perfected the technique of lowering expectations. “But,
lest some unlucky event should happen, unfavorable to my reputation,” he went
on, “I beg it may be remember[e]d by every Gent[lema]n in the room that I this
day declare, with the utmost sincerity, I do not think myself equal to the command
I [am] honoured with.” Then he made the proudly aristocratic gesture he had already practiced during the Braddock campaign—he waived the proposed salary
of ﬁve hundred dollars a month: “As to pay, sir, I beg leave to assure the Congress
that as no pecuniary consideration could have tempted me to have accepted this

188

r! The Gener a l

arduous employment at the expense of my domestic ease and happi[ness], I do not
wish to make any proﬁt from it. I will keep an exact account of my expenses; those
I doubt not they will discharge and that is all I desire.”27
Washington wanted to show that his motives were spotless, that he was a true
gentleman and could be trusted with great power, and the delegates applauded his
generosity. As John Adams declared, “There is something charming to me in the
conduct of Washington. A gentleman of one of the ﬁrst fortunes upon the continent, leaving his delicious retirement, his family and friends, sacriﬁcing his ease and
hazarding all in the cause of his country.”28 James T. Flexner dismisses the apparent
generosity behind Washington’s renunciation of a salary: “Financially, the distinction proved to be only a bookkeeping one, as he received in expenses what he would
have received in salary.”29 But Washington’s gesture captured people’s imaginations
and conﬁrmed that this revolution was something new under the sun. Even the
London newspapers were thunderstruck, one writing that Washington “is to attend
to the hazardous duty allotted him from principle only. A most noble example and
worthy of imitation in Great Britain.”30
While some of Washington’s humility can be traced to political calculation, it
also reﬂected his frank admission that he lacked the requisite experience to take
on the British Empire. It was both a gratifying and a terrifying moment for a man
who was such a bundle of conﬁdence and insecurity. Preoccupied, as always, with
his sense of personal honor—his calling card as a gentleman—he feared disgrace as
well as failure. When he ran into Patrick Henry after his appointment, an emotional
Washington seemed full of foreboding. “Remember, Mr. Henry, what I now tell you:
from the day I enter upon the command of the American armies, I date my fall, and
the ruin of my reputation.”31 Henry said that Washington’s eyes were full of tears—
one of many times when, under stress, he betrayed his underlying emotions.
In accepting this appointment, Washington was haunted by the uncertain fate
of his wife, who would be left alone and might become the target of British raids. In
the wake of Patsy’s death and Jacky’s wedding, Martha Washington was already in a
lonely, vulnerable state of mind. To be deprived now of her husband might knock
the emotional props from under her. For three days Washington couldn’t bring
himself to write to her. Then on June 18 he sat down with trepidation to inform her
of his extraordinary appointment:
My Dearest, I am now set down to write to you on a subject which ﬁlls me with
inexpressible concern and this concern is greatly aggravated and increased when
I reﬂect on the uneasiness I know it will give you . . . You may believe me . . . when I
assure you in the most solemn manner that, so far from seeking this appointment,
I have used every endeavor in my power to avoid it, not only from my unwillingness

The Glorious Cause r! 1 8 9

to part with you and the family, but from a consciousness of its being a trust too
great for my capacity . . . it has been a kind of destiny that has thrown me upon this
service . . . it was utterly out of my power to refuse this appointment without exposing my character to such censures as would have reﬂected dishonor upon myself and
given pain to my friends.32

The editors of Washington’s papers note that twenty years earlier Washington had
marshaled almost identical arguments in writing to his mother, invoking force majeure in justifying his participation in the French and Indian War. But in this letter,
even as he told Martha to summon her fortitude, his protective emotions surged to
the fore. “I shall feel no pain from the toil or the danger of the campaign,” he told
her. “My unhappiness will ﬂow from the uneasiness I know you will feel at being
left alone.”33 He wondered whether she might feel safer in Alexandria or staying
with close friends. It must have been sobering to Martha, who had already lost one
husband, to learn that Washington had asked Edmund Pendleton to draft a new
will for him.
For many years Martha’s attachment to her son had been problematic for George
Washington, but he now found solace in the thought that Jacky might care for her.
On June 19 he informed Jacky of his appointment and told him that “my great concern upon this occasion is the thoughts of leaving your mother under the uneasiness which I know this affair will throw her into.” He asked Jacky if he and his bride
Nelly could stay full time at Mount Vernon, “when I think it absolutely necessary
for the peace and satisfaction of your mother.”34 That same day Washington wrote
to his brother-in-law, Burwell Bassett, and inquired whether he and Martha’s sister,
Anna Maria, could visit Mount Vernon or take Martha into their home. Although
he had assured Martha that he would “return safe to you in the fall,” he now told
Bassett, much more candidly, that “I have no expectations of returning till winter
and feel great uneasiness at [Martha’s] lonesome situation.”35 Washington noted
that he had exchanged his Mount Vernon coach for his riding horses as he traded
peacetime paraphernalia for wartime matériel. Again he expressed his inadequacy
for the job. “I can answer but for three things: a ﬁrm belief in the justice of our
cause; close attention in the prosecution of it; and the strictest integrity. If these
cannot supply the places of ability and experience, the cause will suffer.”36

Be for e l e av i ng for B oston, Washington gathered the stage props for his
command performance as top general. He bought ﬁve horses and a handsome
four-wheeled open carriage, called a phaeton, the ﬁrst charges to his expense account. He collected ﬁve books on military strategy. To spruce up his military ap-

19 0

r! The Gener a l

parel, he covered his black leather pistol holders with rich fabric, enhancing their
beauty. In all likelihood, he employed the same red and white colors for this upholstery as he used for the servants’ livery at Mount Vernon. Washington also ordered
a new uniform, having decided to retain for the Continental Army the colors of
the Fairfax Independent Company. For his tailor, he outlined a uniform consisting
of “a blue coat with yellow buttons and gold epaulettes (each having three silver
stars) . . . in winter, buff vest and breeches; in summer, a white vest and breeches
of nankeen.”37
When Washington was named commander in chief, he found himself in an
anomalous situation: he was the only person ofﬁcially on the rolls of the Continental Army; technically, he had been chosen to march at the head of a nonexistent
army to ﬁght an undeclared war. Nevertheless he began to assemble the top-ﬂight
team of personal aides he would refer to as his military “family.” During the war
Washington would develop intimate attachments to several dashing young men
of intelligence and sensibility. En route to Boston, he was escorted by Joseph Reed
of Philadelphia, a Trenton native educated at Princeton and trained in law at the
Middle Temple in London. Smart, courteous, and charming, Reed had a long face
with blue eyes and a kindly expression. John Adams praised him as “very sensible,”
“amiable,” and “tender.”38 As a member of Washington’s military escort to Boston,
Reed fell under the general’s spell and couldn’t resist his insistence that he stay
on as his secretary. As Reed remembered, Washington had “expressed himself to
me in such terms that I thought myself bound by every tie of duty and honor to
comply with his request to help him through the sea of difﬁculties.”39 For his ﬁrst
aide-de-camp, Washington chose another young Philadelphian, Thomas Mifﬂin,
a radical member of the Congress with a broad, handsome face, “a sprightly and
spirited speaker” with a reputation for being temperamental.40 In opting for two
young Philadelphians from prominent families, Washington showed partiality for
members of his own class and a willingness to surround himself with young men
more highly educated than he was.
The generals that the Congress picked to support Washington reﬂected the same
calculus of geographic diversity that had shaped Washington’s own appointment.
Bowing to political realities, it chose the burly Artemas Ward of Massachusetts as
the ﬁrst major general; Ward would never warm to Washington and resented being
upstaged by him. He was followed by Horatio Gates, named adjutant general with
the rank of brigadier. Washington admired Gates, lauded his superior knowledge of
military affairs, and personally recommended him for the high post, but he would
shortly revise this opinion. “I discovered very early in the war symptoms of coldness and constraint in General Gates’ behavior to me,” he later observed. “These
increased as he rose into greater consequence.”41 The next major general picked by

The Glorious Cause r! 191

Congress was Charles Lee. He too had been recommended by Washington, who
again would live to rue the choice. Washington credited Lee as “the ﬁrst ofﬁcer in
military knowledge and experience we have in the whole army,” but he also saw
that he was “rather ﬁckle and violent, I fear, in his temper.”42 Another major general
was the patrician Philip Schuyler, a wealthy landlord with extensive holdings along
the Hudson River. A member of the Anglo-Dutch aristocracy of New York, he had
a bulbous red nose, a raspy voice, and a frosty attitude toward his social inferiors.
Finally there was the colorful, rough-hewn farmer from Connecticut, the deepchested Israel Putnam, who had won the endearing nickname “Old Put.” Scarred,
weather-beaten, and poorly educated, he was popular among his soldiers. It was
said of the suspicious Putnam that he always slept with one eye open. At Bunker
Hill he had supposedly uttered the famous words, “Don’t ﬁre, boys, until you see
the whites of their eyes.”43 Silas Deane said with admiration that Putnam was “totally unﬁt for everything” except ﬁghting.44
Washington’s ﬁnal hours in Philadelphia were long and frantic ones. When, on
June 20, he sent a farewell note to ofﬁcers of the ﬁve Virginia militias he had commanded, he sounded as if he tottered a bit under the stress. “I have launched into a
wide and extensive ﬁeld too boundless for my abilities and far, very far beyond my
experience,” he wrote tensely.45 Before setting out for Boston on June 23, he dashed
off a quick, reassuring missive to Martha, reminding her that “I retain an unalterable affection for you, which neither time nor distance can change.”46
Washington received a festive send-off from the Philadelphia populace. Accompanied by Charles Lee and Philip Schuyler, he was ready to mount his horse when
Thomas Mifﬂin sprinted out, bent down, and held out the stirrup for him—a small
courtesy that drew a vast ovation from the crowd. John Adams recorded a genteel
detail: many congressmen showed up with servants and carriages to bid farewell
to the revolutionary warrior. Washington brought along his versatile manservant,
Billy Lee, who would enter fully into the fervent emotions of the struggle; as a garrulous old veteran in later years, he would talk as if he had been a full-ﬂedged member of the Continental Army, not a slave forcibly drafted into service. Nevertheless
Lee and another slave named John wore not the blue and buff of the Continental
Army but the red and white Washington livery. When John Trumbull later painted
Lee, he depicted him as dark-skinned and round-cheeked in an exotic red turban. A
skillful horseman, Lee remained at Washington’s side throughout the war, a powerful symbol of the limitations of this ﬁght for liberty. During the war, in a striking
mark of their personal relationship, Washington would personally order clothing
for Lee.
As he rode north, Washington ventured into terra incognita. With little talent
for impromptu speeches, he was ill equipped for his sudden celebrity. Nonethe-

19 2

r! The Gener a l

less, upon encountering large throngs in New York City, he displayed a touch of
pure showmanship, wearing a plume in his hat and a bright purple sash. In a city
violently torn between Loyalists and patriots, Washington’s hosts worried that he
might encounter the royal governor, William Tryon, who had returned from a trip
to England that same day. To avoid this clash, Washington crossed the Hudson at
Hoboken and arrived at four p.m. near present-day Canal Street, then well north of
the town. Met by a military band, nine companies of militia, and a delegation from
the New York Provincial Congress, Washington got a vivid glimpse of the cheering
masses who counted on him for deliverance. The entire town, it seemed, had emptied out to receive him, and a local newspaper said that “a greater number of the
principal inhabitants” had appeared than on any previous occasion.47 Washington
was whisked to the country estate of Leonard Lispenard. In a sign of the ﬂuid political situation, some people who had welcomed Washington then met Governor
Tryon when he landed at eight o’clock that evening, causing Loyalist Thomas Jones
to bellow, “What a farce! What cursed hypocrisy!”48 In another strange sign of this
transitional period, Washington drank in the huzzahs of the multitudes while the
Asia, a sixty-four-gun British warship, lay at anchor off the Battery, not far from
where he was.
At the Lispenard mansion, Washington received an urgent dispatch from Boston. Although the sealed communiqúe was addressed to John Hancock, Washington
thought it prudent to open it in case it contained timely news. His instinct was correct: the dispatch reported that on June 17 more than two thousand British troops,
led by General William Howe, had stormed fortiﬁed patriot positions on Breed’s
Hill, forcing an American retreat. (The battle was incorrectly labeled Bunker Hill.)
Intent upon inﬂicting maximum terror on supposedly amateurish Americans, the
British had incinerated the buildings of Charlestown, leaving the obliterated town a
smoking ruin. Bunker Hill proved a Pyrrhic victory, for the British registered more
than a thousand casualties. Americans had shown not only pluck and grit but excellent marksmanship as they picked off British ofﬁcers; ﬁring at ofﬁcers was then
considered a shocking breach of military etiquette. The Americans suffered 450 casualties, including the death of Major General Joseph Warren. Even while it dented
British conﬁdence, the Battle of Bunker Hill stirred patriotic spirits, exposing the
ﬁrst chinks in the British ﬁghting machine and suggesting, wrongly, that green
American militia troops could outﬁght British professionals. As the British reeled, a
stunned General Howe admitted, “The success is too dearly bought.”49 Washington
recognized that the British had been chastened—“a few more such victories woul[d]
put an end to their army,” he wryly told his brother Sam—but he insisted that the
battle was a missed opportunity.50 If the men had “been properly conducted,” he
concluded, “the regulars would have met with a shameful defeat.”51 At the same time,

The Glorious Cause r! 193

he would spend the ﬁrst year or two of the war referring back to Bunker Hill and
hoping to recapitulate the terriﬁc beating inﬂicted on the startled British.
Though Washington yearned to be off to Boston, members of the New York
Provincial Congress wanted to address him, and political decorum dictated that
he linger. It was the start of the interminable ceremonies that would be the bane
of his public life. Already tired from formalities and sacriﬁcing precious time, he
instructed his assistants to be ready to leave the instant the meeting ended. Washington sounded a conciliatory theme to the provincial congress, promising to apply
his efforts to the restoration “of peace and harmony between the mother [country and the] colonies.”52 He minted a beautiful phrase that must have resonated
deeply among his listeners: “When we assumed the soldier, we did not lay aside the
citizen.”53 The citizen-soldier passed this ﬁrst test of his political skills with ﬂying
colors. Gifted with perfect pitch, he knew how to talk the language of peace even as
he girded for war.
As Washington and his party pushed northward, his mind was occupied with
the situation awaiting him in Boston. A decade later he admitted that he wasn’t
sufﬁciently “at ease” to observe closely the countryside through which he passed.54
He felt beleaguered by the social duties thrust upon him as he passed through an
unending succession of towns and endured ritual greetings from their leading citizens. He was already swamped with letters from provincial legislators, who began
to address him as “His Excellency”—a rather regal locution for a revolutionary
leader. George Washington was already becoming more than a mere man: he was
the face and form of an amorphous cause. As Garry Wills has noted, “Before there
was a nation—before there was any symbol of that nation (a ﬂag, a Constitution, a
national seal)—there was Washington.”55 Knowing that people wished to see him
astride a horse, Washington would step down from his carriage and mount a horse
before entering a town, turning it into a theatrical performance.56
On Sunday, July 2, Washington arrived at Cambridge, Massachusetts, to assume
control of the Continental Army, which had laid siege to Boston and the many
redcoats bottled up inside the town. People in New England took the Sabbath seriously, and Washington respected religious observance, so on this historic day the
stately Virginian made a quiet, unobtrusive entrance into the camp. The ﬂedgling
troops that had lined up on the parade ground to be inspected were dismissed
when a steady daylong rain spoiled the reception, but Washington and Lee did meet
with the ofﬁcers’ corps that evening. The rain screened any clear view of the British
troops in the distance. Nevertheless, in taking up his duties, George Washington
had crossed the threshold into a new life.

chapter seventeen

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Magniﬁcent Bluff

A lt hough Ge orge Wa sh i ngt on had never attended college and regretted
his lack of education, he moved into the Harvard Square home of college president
Samuel Langdon, who retreated to a single room. Politicians and ofﬁcers soon descended on Washington en masse, including the two New England generals Artemas Ward and Israel Putnam. By mid-July Washington had transferred to grander
quarters on Brattle Street, occupying the three-story Georgian mansion of John
Vassall, a rich Tory who had ﬂed behind British lines in besieged Boston. The Vassalls had owned a slave family that remained in the house, and when Washington
toured his new headquarters, he found a slave boy, Darby Vassall, swinging on the
front gate. In a friendly manner, Washington expressed interest in taking him into
his service, but Darby, imbued with the spirit of liberty, asked what his pay would
be. At that interjection, Washington evidently lost interest. “General Washington
was no gentleman,” Darby later said, “to expect a boy to work without wages.”1
By the time Washington and Charles Lee reviewed troops on the parade ground
on July 3, the overcast skies had cleared and an effervescent mood ﬁlled the air.
Twenty-one drummers and as many ﬁfe players treated the new generals to a full
musical accompaniment as they inspected the New England soldiers. While some
had muskets, many others toted primitive weapons, including tomahawks and knives
lashed to poles. Despite these handicaps, Washington hoped the patriots could muster eighteen thousand men—at least, if one included the sick and absent—and enjoy
a numerical superiority over British forces of no more than twelve thousand.
As Washington and Lee toured lengthy defensive fortiﬁcations being thrown
up pell-mell to deter a British attack, they viewed the eerie reality of two armies,

Magniﬁcent Bluff r! 195

separated by scarcely more than a mile, enjoying panoramic, unobstructed views
of each other. It was easy to make out British sentinels pacing on Bunker Hill. With
some amazement, Washington told Richard Henry Lee that the British and Americans were “almost near enough to converse.”2 To Washington, it seemed that both
sides had settled into an uneasy standoff.
On July 4 the Congress formally incorporated the state militias into the Continental Army, enabling Washington to issue general orders that would sound the
signature themes of his tenure. This George Washington differed from the callow,
sometimes grasping young colonel who had governed the Virginia Regiment and
was narrowly absorbed in his career. From the outset, his ofﬁcial voice pulsated
with high ideals. He tried to dissolve state differences into a new national identity,
telling his men that the troops being raised from various colonies were “now the
troops of the United Provinces of North America and it is hoped that all distinctions of colonies will be laid aside.”3
Always buffed and polished, with an elegant sword strapped to his side and
silver spurs on his boots, Washington roamed all over the camp. “His Excellency
was on horseback, in company with several other military gentlemen,” Dr. James
Thacher wrote. “It was not difﬁcult to distinguish him from the others; his personal
appearance is truly noble and majestic.”4 A local diarist, Ezekiel Price, picked up
reports on July 5 that “General Washington had visited the camps, and the soldiers
were much pleased with him.”5 As at Mount Vernon, Washington rose at sunup to
ride about the camp, lifting sagging spirits with his presence. Suddenly rejuvenated
troops were happily digging trenches at four in the morning. “There is great overturning in the camp as to order and regularity,” said an impressed chaplain. “New
lords, new laws.”6 A beefy former bookseller from Boston named Henry Knox stood
in awe of Washington’s panache: “General Washington ﬁlls his place with vast ease
and dignity and dispenses happiness around him.”7 An enthusiastic friend reported
to John Adams that Washington “has in a manner inspired ofﬁcers and soldiers
with a taste for discipline and they go into it readily, as they all venerate and love the
general.”8 His Excellency also left the ladies agog. “You had prepared me to entertain
a favorable opinion of George Washington,” Abigail Adams chided her husband,
“but I thought the half was not told me. Dignity with ease and complacency, the
gentleman and soldier, look agreeably blended in him.”9
For all the favorable assessments, Washington, as a newcomer from Virginia,
confronted pervasive Yankee suspicions, and he, in turn, was inwardly revolted by
the alien world he surveyed daily in Cambridge. With little tolerance for error and
scant patience for disorder, he was surrounded by an unruly, vociferous mass of
men who didn’t take well to orders. At this point, he never dreamed that these
shabby men would someday show prodigious courage or that he would grow to

19 6

r! The Gener a l

love them. Soon he squawked to his brother Sam that he had “found a numerous
army of provincials under very little command, discipline, or order.”10 Two months
later, a shrill note entering his letter, he protested to John Hancock that “licentiousness and every kind of disorder triumphantly reign.”11 Two people seemed to coexist inside George Washington’s breast. One was the political militant who mouthed
republican slogans; this Washington thought his troops would ﬁght better if motivated by patriotic ideals. The other, schooled in the British military system, believed
devoutly in top-down discipline and rank as necessary to a well-run army. This
Washington was also the Virginia planter who felt little in common with the scruffy
plebeians around him.
Washington expressed dismay that many New England militias elected their own
ofﬁcers, choosing farmers, artisans, or storekeepers. It bothered him that egalitarian ofﬁcers fraternized with their men, joined them in line for food, and even gave
them shaves. In disbelief, he wrote to one Virginian that the Massachusetts ofﬁcers
“are nearly of the same kidney with the privates.”12 To Patrick Henry, Washington
worried aloud about “the soldier and ofﬁcer being too nearly on a level. Discipline
and subordination add life and vigor to military movements.”13 In part, Washington had an old-fashioned faith in military hierarchy as likely to produce the most
efﬁcient army. He often evinced a partiality for wellborn ofﬁcers, as if he wanted
to transfer the hierarchy of civilian life intact into the army. As he once observed
about choosing ofﬁcers, “The ﬁrst rule . . . is to determine whether the candidate
is truly a gentleman, whether he has a genuine sense of honor and a reputation to
risk.”14 At one point, while arguing for better pay for ofﬁcers, Washington warned
John Hancock that only such a move would “induce gentlemen and men of character to engage and till the bulk of your ofﬁcers are composed of such persons . . . you
have little to expect of them.”15 However much Washington theoretically preferred
having his social peers as fellow ofﬁcers, however, he would compile an outstanding
record of advancing ofﬁcers who lacked such pedigrees.
During his ﬁrst month in Cambridge, to differentiate the army’s upper echelons, Washington ordered ﬁeld ofﬁcers to sport red or pink cockades in their hats,
captains yellow or buff, and subordinate ofﬁcers green. It upset Washington when
sentinels stopped generals because they didn’t recognize them. He decreed a light
blue sash for himself, a pink one for major and brigadier generals, and a green
one for his aides-de-camp. It says much about Washington’s evolution during the
war that he emphasized these distinctions much less as the war progressed. “His
uniform is exactly like that of his soldiers,” a French ofﬁcer noted four years later.
“Formerly, on solemn occasions, that is to say on days of battle, he wore a large blue
sash, but he has given up that unrepublican distinction.”16
Even as he introduced distinctions between ofﬁcers and their men, he struggled

Magniﬁcent Bluff r! 19 7

to obliterate differences among the states to forge a national army. When he arrived in Cambridge, there was no army as such, only a mosaic of New England
militias, wearing a medley of homemade hats, shoes, and other clothing. A fervent nationalist, Washington wanted to eliminate regiments based on geography at
a time when militias were identiﬁed with states—a visionary suggestion that was
promptly rejected. As he later wrote, “In the early stages of this war, I used every
means in my power to destroy all kind of state distinctions and labored to have
every part and parcel of the army considered as continental.”17 Because of a shortage of wool, once imported from Great Britain, Washington planned to issue ten
thousand linen hunting shirts, such as those used in the French and Indian War,
creating a makeshift national uniform. But there wasn’t enough tow cloth, and he
had to settle for the motley array of costumes worn by state militias. Washington
also argued futilely that the Congress should appoint ofﬁcers instead of provisional
governments. This proposal was vetoed since it clashed with republican ideology,
which romanticized militias as superior to standing armies, a dilemma that was to
bedevil him throughout the war.
Nobody would have found the camp’s vile sanitary conditions more repellent
than did the fastidious Washington. The open latrines emitted a potent stench, and
it was a challenge to coax soldiers into using them. One orderly book complained
that they left “excrement about the ﬁelds perniciously.”18 Having experienced ﬁrsthand the epidemics that can decimate armies, Washington urged ofﬁcers to keep
their men clean, tend their latrines, and forbid ﬁshing in freshwater ponds, “as there
may be danger of introducing the smallpox into the army.”19 Washington must also
have recoiled at the queer collection of improvised tents. Of these outlandish dwellings, the Reverend William Emerson said, “Some are made of boards, some of sailcloth, and some partly of one and partly of the other. Others are made of stone and
turf and others again of birch and other brush . . . others are curiously wrought
with doors and windows done with wreaths . . . in the manner of a basket.”20 The
troops lacked running water, and their ﬁlthy, tattered appearance excited disgust
among onlookers, causing Loyalist Benjamin Thompson to say that Washington’s
army was “the most wretchedly clothed, and as dirty a set of mortals as ever disgraced the name of a soldier.”21 Some men were half naked, their clothing having
been slashed at Bunker Hill. Small wonder that Washington groaned that his life
was “one continued round of annoyance and fatigue.”22
Maintaining unity among the men proved a perpetual struggle. In late July the
New England troops were startled by the arrival of a rustic contingent of Virginia
riﬂemen, led by Captain Daniel Morgan, who had trudged six hundred miles to
join the fray. The riﬂes they carried were longer than muskets and could be ﬁred
with far more accuracy, but they took longer to load in combat. Army cook

19 8

r! The Gener a l

Israel Trask remembered how soldiers from Marblehead, Massachusetts, outﬁtted
in round jackets and ﬁshermen’s trousers, derided the Virginians with their fringed
linen shirts, leggings, and tomahawks. Months later, on a snowy day, as the Virginians toured Harvard College, the Marblehead soldiers began to taunt and toss
snowballs at them. Before too long, said Trask,
a ﬁerce struggle commenced with biting and gouging on the one part, and knockdown on the other part with as much apparent fury as the most deadly enemy could
create. Reinforced by their friends, in less than ﬁve minutes, more than a thousand
combatants were on the ﬁeld, struggling for the mastery. At this juncture General
Washington made his appearance, whether by accident or design I never knew. I
only saw him and his colored servant [Billy Lee], both mounted. With the spring of
a deer, he leaped from his saddle, threw the reins of his bridle into the hands of his
servant, and rushed into the thickest of the melee, with an iron grip seized two tall,
brawny, athletic, savage-looking riﬂemen by the throat, keeping them at arm’s length,
alternately shaking and talking to them. In this position the eye of the belligerents
caught sight of the general. Its effect on them was instantaneous ﬂight at the top of
their speed in all directions from the scene of the conﬂict. Less than ﬁfteen minutes
time had elapsed from the commencement of the row before the general and his two
criminals were the only occupants of the ﬁeld of action. Here bloodshed, imprisonment, trials by court-martial were happily prevented and hostile feelings between the
different corps of the army extinguished by the physical and mental energies timely
exerted by one individual.23

One notes how swiftly the fearless Washington displayed derring-do. In dealing
with troublemakers, he meted out harsh punishments, including having them ride
the wooden horse, an ordeal in which the offender sat on the sharp wooden rail of
a sawhorse, his hands bound behind his back and heavy weights anchored to his
feet to heighten the pain. One also notes in the anecdote the conspicuous presence of Billy Lee, who remained steadfastly at Washington’s side throughout the
Revolution.
As Washington examined his army with care, he was dismayed to ﬁnd no more
than 14,500 men ﬁt for service—far fewer than the 20,000 ﬁghting Yankees he had
expected to ﬁnd. This, the ﬁrst of many unpleasant surprises, meant that he had to
be an expert bluffer, pretending to a military strength he didn’t possess. In conﬁdence, he told James Warren, president of the Massachusetts Provincial Congress,
“Your own prudence will suggest the necessity of secrecy on this subject, as we have
the utmost reason to think the enemy suppose our numbers much greater than
they are—an error which is not [in] our interest to remove.”24

Magniﬁcent Bluff r! 19 9

If Washington had taken away one lesson from the French and Indian War, it
was the need for a compact defense. It therefore irked him that he had to maintain
a vast defensive perimeter of breastworks and trenches stretching for eight or nine
miles. On the other hand, he feared the psychological blow if he retreated from
fortiﬁcations so laboriously constructed. He also had to contend with a grave gunpowder shortage. At ﬁrst he was told that he had 308 barrels of powder, only to learn
from Brigadier General John Sullivan that the actual number was 36, a risible nine
rounds per man. When he conveyed this stunning news to Washington, Sullivan
recalled, the general “did not utter a word for half an hour.”25 Washington realized
how easily his army could be wiped out and was slightly mystiﬁed why the British
didn’t attack. He looked increasingly frazzled and careworn. “I pity our good general,” wrote one observer, “who has a greater burden on his shoulders and more difﬁculties to struggle with than I think should fall to the share of so good a man.”26
Washington was thrust into a terrible dilemma: he couldn’t defend his own
performance without citing the deﬁciencies of men, munitions, and supplies, but
that would alert the enemy to his weaknesses. He had to swallow his doubts and
appear the picture of conﬁdence, making him more tight-lipped in his public pronouncements, if more vehement in private. An accomplished actor, he learned to
exploit liberally the “gift of silence” that John Adams cited as one of his cardinal
strengths. For the rest of his life, Washington remained the prisoner of roles that
forced him into secrecy and evasion, accentuating an already reticent personality.
His reserve was further reinforced by a view of military leadership that frowned on
camaraderie. Abigail Adams made the insightful comment that Washington “has a
dignity which forbids familiarity, mixed with an easy affability which creates love
and reverence.”27 Washington’s ofﬁcers admired him, but with the slightest touch
of fear. “The dignity of his presence,” wrote Timothy Pickering, “large and manly,
increased by steady, ﬁrm, and grave countenance and an unusual share of reserve,
forbidding all familiarity, excited no little reverence in his presence.”28 Washington’s
public role threw up an invisible barrier that prevented true intimacy with all but a
select handful of friends and family members.

H av i ng h a d f i r st h a n d e x pe r i e nc e with smallpox,Washington was farsighted in his efforts to stem its spread among the troops through inoculation. By
the time he arrived in Cambridge, General Ward had established a smallpox hospital in a secluded spot west of town and ordered daily inspections of his men for
symptoms. “We shall continue the utmost vigilance against this most dangerous
enemy,” Washington vowed to Hancock, and he diligently quarantined soldiers who
exhibited the ﬁrst signs of the disease.29

200

r! The Gener a l

In the fall of 1775, when smallpox surfaced in British-occupied Boston, Washington grew alarmed that it might be spread to his own men. “The smallpox is in
every part of Boston,” he informed Joseph Reed in mid-December. “The soldiers
there who have never had it are, we are told, under inoculation . . . If we escape the
smallpox in this camp and the country round about, it will be miraculous.”30 When
General Howe herded 300 destitute Bostonians, riddled with disease, onto boats
and dumped them near American lines, Washington feared that they carried smallpox; he sent them humanitarian provisions while carefully insulating them from
his troops. After a second wave of 150 sickly Bostonians was expelled, Washington
grew convinced that Howe had stooped to using smallpox as a “weapon of defense”
against his army.31 By January 1777 he ordered Dr. William Shippen to inoculate every soldier who had never had the disease. “Necessity not only authorizes but seems
to require the measure,” he wrote, “for should the disorder infect the army in the
natural way and rage with its usual virulence, we should have more to dread from it
than the sword of the enemy.”32 This enlightened decision was as important as any
military measure Washington adopted during the war.
Meanwhile, in early August 1775, Washington grappled with the grave problem
of a gunpowder shortage. To protect his troops, he circulated the ﬁction that he possessed eighteen hundred barrels of powder—an early American case of a successful
disinformation campaign. In giving the go-ahead to a Rhode Island plan to send
ships to the Caribbean in order to seize powder stored in Bermuda, he noted that
“enterprises which appear chimerical” often succeed because they are unexpected.33
This statement offers a key insight into Washington’s military thinking—his belief
that wildly audacious moves sometimes work because they seem too preposterous
for the enemy to credit. As it turned out, General Gage had already removed the
Bermuda gunpowder as a precaution.
Washington considered his army’s lack of gunpowder such a “profound secret”
that, in early August, he would divulge it in person only to the speaker of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, not trusting the entire legislature with the
news.34 Secrecy and deception were fast becoming essential aspects of his repertoire.
Contributing to the depletion of gunpowder was the antic behavior of the triggerhappy Virginia riﬂemen, who loved to ﬁre their weapons at random, exhausting
the whole camp with the commotion. Without disclosing the real reason for his
concern, Washington issued this general order: “It is with indignation and shame
the general observes that, notwithstanding the repeated orders which have been
given to prevent the ﬁring of guns in and about camp . . . it is daily and hourly practiced.”35 It was a magniﬁcent bluff: Washington made it sound as if he were irate
only at insubordination, not at the waste of precious ammunition.
That August George Washington conducted a revealing exchange of letters with

Magniﬁcent Bluff r! 2 01

General Gage. Upon hearing that the British had taken American ofﬁcers captured
at Bunker Hill and clapped them into jails with common criminals, Washington
ﬂew into a rage. He was furious that American prisoners were being mistreated
and that ofﬁcers were being mingled with other prisoners. He protested that Gage
had shown “no consideration . . . for those of the most respectable rank when languishing with wounds and sickness.” In demanding better treatment, Washington
appealed to “the rights of humanity and claims of rank” and threatened to retaliate
against British captives.36 Two days later Gage sent Washington a reply reeking of
condescension. He recognized no rank among American prisoners, he conceded,
“for I acknowledge no rank that is not derived from the king.” Then he pompously
lectured the rebel chieftain: “Be temperate in political disquisition, give free operation to truth, and punish those who deceive and misrepresent and [then] not only
the effects, but the causes of this unhappy conﬂict will be removed.”37
The next day Washington, rising above pettiness, allowed British ofﬁcers in captivity to walk about freely after they swore they wouldn’t try to escape. When he
replied to Gage, he no longer hedged his words with a British superior. Now he could
openly and indignantly defy the highest British ofﬁcer and ventilate a lifetime of
frustration. He started out by saying that British prisoners were being “treated with
a tenderness due to fellow citizens and brethren.” Then he delivered his own stern
lecture to Gage: “You affect, Sir, to despise all rank not derived from the same source
with your own. I cannot conceive any more honorable than that which ﬂows from
the uncorrupted choice of a brave and free people—the purest source and original
fountain of all power . . . I shall now, Sir, close my correspondence with you, perhaps
forever. If your ofﬁcers who are our prisoners receive a treatment from me different
from what I wish[e]d to show them, they and you will remember the occasion of it.”38
This eloquent letter, brimful of passion, reﬂected both sides of George Washington.
He appealed to the rights due to ofﬁcers in an army, traditionally an aristocratic class
among the British. At the same time, he issued a clarion appeal to natural rights as
the source of all power, giving a ringing afﬁrmation of American principles.
Beneath the high-ﬂown rhetoric, Washington’s private views were far more
sober. During that troubled summer he wrestled with his ambivalence about the
scruffy army he led. He wasn’t by nature or background an egalitarian person, and
to Virginia conﬁdants he poured forth his chagrin. To Richard Henry Lee, he bemoaned that it was impossible to get these New England soldiers to be heedless of
danger “till the bayonet is pushed at their breasts” and blamed “an unaccountable
kind of stupidity in the lower class of these people.”39 He was no more charitable
toward their ofﬁcers, telling cousin Lund, “I daresay the men would ﬁght very well
(if properly ofﬁcered), although they are an exceeding dirty and nasty people.”40
Washington frowned upon these Puritan descendants as greedy, sanctimonious

2 02

r! The Gener a l

hypocrites, telling Joseph Reed that “there is no nation under the sun (that I ever
came across) pay greater adoration to money than they do.”41
For Washington, thoughts of Mount Vernon offered solace from wartime scenes
in New England and became his favorite form of mental refreshment. Perhaps admitting that his absence from Virginia might be prolonged, he gave the faithful
Lund a generous raise to manage the estate in his absence. Throughout the war
Washington remained exceedingly attentive to doings at home, penning hundreds
of lengthy letters to Lund, typically one a week. He retained a staggering amount of
detailed information about Mount Vernon inside his compartmentalized mind and
seemed able to visualize every square foot of the estate—every hedge, every fence,
every pond, every meadow. Often exacting in his demands, he supervised the planting of crops, the purchase of land, and the moves and countermoves of lawsuits as
if he had never left the plantation. Forever daydreaming about the future, he was
determined to persist with renovations to his mansion started the year before. Writing as if he might return that winter, he told Lund to “quicken” the introduction
of a new chimneypiece, “as I could wish to have that end of the house completely
ﬁnished before I return. I wish you had done the end of the new kitchen next the
garden as also the old kitchen with rusticated boards.”42 Clearly Washington found
psychological balm in these pleasing fantasies of a renovated Mount Vernon awaiting him when the war ended.
Continuing to fret about Martha, the commander in chief was beset by sporadic fears that Lord Dunmore might abduct her. Then he dismissed such actions
as unworthy of a gentleman. “I can hardly think that Lord Dunmore can act so low
and unmanly a part as to think of seizing Mrs. Washington by way of revenge upon
me,” he told Lund Washington in late August.43 Should Lund believe it necessary,
however, he advised him to move both Martha and his personal papers to safety in
Alexandria.
Even as he privately berated the New Englanders, Washington enjoyed a special wartime camaraderie with two who stood out amid the dearth of able ofﬁcers.
Nathanael Greene of Rhode Island was one of the ﬁrst brigadier generals picked by
Congress; having turned thirty-three that summer, he was the youngest general in
the Continental Army. Tall and solidly built with striking blue eyes, full lips, and a
long straight nose, Greene had been reared in a pious Quaker household by a prosperous father who owned an iron forge, a sawmill, and other businesses. Discouraged from reading anything except the Bible, he had received little schooling and
missed a college education as much as Washington. “I lament the want of a liberal
education,” he once wrote. “I feel the mist [of] ignorance to surround me.”44 To compensate for this failing, he became adept at self-improvement and devoured authors
both ancient and modern, including Pope, Locke, Sterne, and Jonathan Swift.

Magniﬁcent Bluff r! 2 03

After his father died in 1770, Greene inherited his business but was shadowed
by mishaps. Two years later one of the forges burned, and the following year he was
barred from Quaker meetings, possibly because he patronized alehouses. In 1774
Greene married the exceptionally pretty Catharine “Caty” Littleﬁeld, who was a
dozen years younger and a preeminent belle of the Revolutionary era. As relations
with Great Britain soured that year, Greene struggled to become that walking contradiction, “a ﬁghting Quaker,” poring over military histories purchased in Henry
Knox’s Boston bookstore. At that point his knowledge of war derived entirely from
reading. Greene was an improbable candidate for military honors: handicapped by
asthma, he walked with a limp, possibly from an early accident. When he joined a
Rhode Island militia, he was heartbroken to be rejected as an ofﬁcer because his
men thought his limp detracted from their military appearance. “I confess it is my
misfortune to limp a little,” he wrote, “but I did not conceive it to be so great.”45
Nevertheless, within a year, by dint of dawn-to-dusk work habits, Greene
emerged as general of the Rhode Island Army of Observation, leading to his promotion by the Continental Congress. Washington must have felt an instinctive sympathy for this young man restrained by handicaps and with a pretty and pregnant
young wife. He also would have admired what Greene had done with the Rhode
Island troops in Cambridge—they lived in “proper tents . . . and looked like the
regular camp of the enemy,” according to the Reverend William Emerson.46
Nathanael Greene had other qualities that recommended him to the commander in chief. Like Washington, he despised profanity, gambling, and excessive
drinking among his men. Like Washington, he was temperamental, hypersensitive
to criticism, and chary of his reputation, and he craved recognition. As he slept in
dusty blankets, tormented by asthma throughout the war, he had a plucky dedication to his work and proved a battleﬁeld general ﬁrmly in the Washington mold,
exposing himself fearlessly to enemy ﬁre. Years later Washington described Greene
as “a man of abilities, bravery and coolness. He has a comprehensive knowledge of
our affairs and is a man of fortitude and resources.”47 Henry Knox paid tribute to
his friend by saying that he “came to us the rawest, the most untutored being I ever
met with” but within a year “was equal in military knowledge to any general ofﬁcer
in the army and very superior to most of them.”48 This tactful man, with his tremendous political intuitions, wound up as George Washington’s favorite general.
When Washington was later asked who should replace him in case of an accident,
he replied unhesitatingly, “General Greene.”49
Washington’s other favorite ofﬁcer was the warm, ebullient Henry Knox, who
weighed almost three hundred pounds and was promoted to colonel of the Continental artillery that December. Like many overweight people, Knox walked in a
slightly odd, pigeon-toed fashion, with his legs bowed outward and his paunch, big

2 04

r! The Gener a l

as a cannonball, bulging under his vest. Still, he dressed smartly and moved with
an erect military carriage, cutting a ﬁne ﬁgure despite his weight. From a shotgun
accident while hunting in 1773, he had lost two ﬁngers of his left hand, which he
disguised by wrapping it in a handkerchief. Knox was genial and outgoing, savored
food and drink, and enjoyed instant rapport with people. Good-humored and rubicund, with a ready laugh, he relished telling funny stories in his resonant voice
while his blue eyes twinkled with merriment. There was something exceptionally
winning about Henry Knox, and one French admirer concluded, “It is impossible
to know [him] without esteeming him, or to see [him] without loving him.”50 For
those who looked deeply, however, Henry Knox carried a private melancholy beneath all the hearty bonhomie.
Born near Boston Harbor, Knox was the son of a failed shipmaster who deserted
the family when Henry was nine, forcing him to drop out of Boston Latin Grammar School to support his mother and younger brother. He clerked in a Boston
bookstore and took advantage of every spare moment to read, preferring military
history and engineering. In 1771 the twenty-one-year-old Knox opened his own
shop, the New London Book Store, which offered a “large and very elegant assortment” of imported works, as Knox claimed in an ad.51 He soaked up military
knowledge from the British ofﬁcers who frequented the shop. All the while he was
becoming a convinced patriot. In the last advertisement he placed in the Boston
Gazette, he announced the sale of an anti-British tract, “The Farmer Refuted,” an
anonymous work written by a King’s College student in New York named Alexander Hamilton.
Knox’s wife, Lucy Flucker, the daughter of a highborn Tory, was a bright, socially ambitious woman who excelled at chess and loved to gamble at cards. She
had a girth to match her husband’s. Abigail Adams reported, “Her size is enormous; I am frightened when I look at her.”52 Perhaps because of her weight and
high regard for fashion, Lucy Knox became something of a laughingstock in the
Continental Army. Dr. Manasseh Cutler, an army chaplain, made Lucy sound like
a ridiculous caricature out of Dickens, with her hair piled “up at least a foot high,
much in the form of a churn bottom upward, and topped off with a wire skeleton
in the same form, covered with black gauze, which hangs in streamers down her
back. Her hair behind is a large braid conﬁned in a monstrous crooked comb.”53
The tall, outrageous hairstyle was actually the modish pouf newly popularized by
Marie-Antoinette.
Knox ﬁrst met Washington and Lee on July 16, when they rode out to Roxbury
to appraise the breastworks Knox had helped to engineer. “When they viewed the
works,” Knox told Lucy, “they expressed the greatest pleasure and surprise at their
situation and apparent utility, to say nothing of the plan, which did not escape

Magniﬁcent Bluff r! 2 0 5

their praise.”54 Before long, Washington and Knox formed a bond of fraternal trust.
Washington liked Knox’s imagination, candor, and enterprise and the way he shot
cannon with his own hands. In artillery matters Washington trusted Knox’s judgment implicitly. In turn, Henry Knox rewarded Washington with unconditional
devotion and delighted in calling him “Your Excellency,” which some saw as a little
too fawning. Even later on, amid widespread grumbling about Washington’s military missteps, the loyal Knox never breathed a syllable of criticism. After the war
Knox thanked Washington and expressed his “affection and gratitude to you for
the innumerable instances of your kindness and attention to me.”55 In the ultimate
tribute to Knox, Washington later told John Adams, “I can say with truth, there is
no man in the United States with whom I have been in habits of greater intimacy;
no one whom I have loved more sincerely; nor any for whom I have had a greater
friendship.”56
It says much about Washington’s leadership style that he searched outside the
ranks of professional soldiers and gave scope to talented newcomers—a meritocratic bent that clashed with his aristocratic background and grew more pronounced with time. With Greene and Knox, he encouraged two aspiring young
men who bore psychological scars from their childhood. He boosted their courage
and made them believe in themselves. This effort, of course, was driven by necessity: Washington had to deal with a chronic shortage of good generals, something
Knox himself recognized in 1776 when he wrote that “there is a radical evil in our
army—the lack of ofﬁcers . . . the bulk of the ofﬁcers of the army are a parcel of
ignorant, stupid men, who might make tolerable soldiers, but are bad ofﬁcers.”57
In the end, the generals who succeeded in the Continental Army weren’t grizzled
veterans, such as Horatio Gates and Charles Lee, but young, homegrown ofﬁcers
who were quite daring and stayed loyal to George Washington.

chapter eighteen

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Land of Freedom

For s om e on e of George Washington’s vigorous nature, nothing disturbed him
more than the charge that he had proved timid when he possessed the high ground
of Prospect Hill, Cambridge, and Roxbury, with General Gage’s troops pinned
down below inside Boston. “The commencement of [Washington’s] command was
the commencement of inactivity,” wrote Thomas Paine after he later turned into a
waspish critic of Washington’s leadership. “If we may judge from the resistance at
Concord and afterwards at Bunker Hill, there was a spirit of enterprise at that time,
which the presence of Mr. Washington chilled into cold defense.”1
The reality was that during the siege of Boston George Washington was restless
and all too eager to pounce. Fond of crisp decisions, he wanted to be done with this
devilish stalemate and return to Mount Vernon. As he insisted to brother John, “The
inactive state we lie in is exceedingly disagreeable.”2 The caution for which he was
legendary struggled against a strong, nearly reckless streak in his nature. As the British
lobbed bombs futilely over the American camp—one soldier said “sometimes from
two to six at a time could be seen in the air overhead, looking like moving stars in the
heavens”—Washington felt powerless to retaliate.3 “It would not be prudent in me to
attempt a measure which would necessarily bring on a consumption of all the ammunition we have, thereby leaving the army at the mercy of the enemy,” he explained to
Richard Henry Lee. So dire was the gunpowder shortage that spears were distributed
to save ammunition, and Washington concluded that he couldn’t afford the big, bold
action he desired: “I know by not doing it that I shall stand in a very unfavorable light
in the opinion of those who expect much and will ﬁnd little done . . . [S]uch, however, is the fate of all those who are obliged to act the part I do.”4

Land of Freedom r! 2 0 7

Washington frequently had Billy Lee remove his mahogany and brass spyglass
from its handsome leather case so he could engage in surveillance of his adversary.
He discerned signs of a British desperation at least equal to his own. The enemy was
hollowing out much of Boston, stripping wooden houses for ﬁrewood and removing combustible materials that might erupt in ﬂames should the patriots attack.
Washington received a much clearer picture of both British and American fortiﬁcations when the young John Trumbull crept through high grass on his belly to sketch
some maps. The son of Connecticut’s governor, the Harvard-educated Trumbull
had exceptional talent as an artist despite a childhood injury that deprived him of
sight in one eye, and he was destined to become the chief visual chronicler of the
American Revolution. Enthralled by his accurate maps, Washington enlisted Trumbull as an aide-de-camp.
Fearing the onset of the New England winter, with an army short of both clothing and blankets, Washington hoped to strike a telling blow in the autumn. It would
be expensive to build winter barracks for so many men, and he would have to chop
down a forest of ﬁrewood to keep them warm. A minor mutiny among Pennsylvania
riﬂemen on September 10 only fed Washington’s sense of urgency. As Connecticut
and Rhode Island enlistments expired with the new year, he feared a total dissolution
of his army. “The paymaster has not a single dollar in hand,” he told John Hancock,
predicting that without money “the army must absolutely break up.”5 He gnashed
his teeth over inexperienced militia soldiers, “dragged from the tender scenes of domestic life” and “unaccustomed to the din of arms,” and doubted they could stand
up to British regulars, the best trained and equipped army in the world.6
From the beginning, Washington heeded a congressional directive that all major military engagements should be approved by a council of war. This committee
structure gave a conservative bias to his plans, curbing his more daring impulses.
At a war council on September 11, 1775, he presented a dramatic plan for an amphibious assault across Back Bay in ﬂat-bottomed boats, telling the eight generals
present that, with the element of surprise, such a plan “did not appear impractical, though hazardous.”7 It was roundly defeated by generals who worried that any
delay might expose men to a massacre in an outgoing tide. Washington could be
persuasive, able to bend men to his will. He “has so happy a faculty of appearing
to accommodate and yet carrying his point, that if he was really not one of the
best-intentioned men in the world, he might be a very dangerous one,” observed
Abigail Adams.8 But the vocal New England generals had no qualms about overruling Washington, and he abided, however grudgingly, by their decision. Before long
Washington was to say that, had he anticipated the unending difﬁculties ahead, “all
the generals upon earth should not have convinced me of the propriety of delaying
an attack upon Boston.”9

208

r! The Gener a l

Despite his own hard-charging nature, Washington realized that, in view of the
fragility of his army, it was sometimes better to miss a major opportunity than
barge into a costly error. He once lectured the Marquis de Lafayette, “No rational
person will condemn you for not ﬁghting with the odds against [you] and while
so much is depending on it, but all will censure a rash step if it is not attended
with success.”10 The general strategy would develop into a war of attrition, with
the major emphasis on preserving the Continental Army and stalling until it was
in suitable condition to ﬁght. To John Adams, Washington later summarized the
dilatory strategy as one of “time, caution, and worrying the enemy until we could
be better provided with arms and other means and had better disciplined troops to
carry it on.”11 Washington was often likened to the Roman general Fabius, who held
Hannibal at bay through a prudent strategy of dodging encounters that played to
the enemy’s strength. Nevertheless this commonly cited analogy can easily be overstated, for Washington nursed fantasies throughout the war about ﬁghting a grand
climactic battle that would end the conﬂict with a single stroke.
In October Washington entertained a delegation of three congressmen, headed
by Benjamin Franklin, who came to ponder military plans. Washington deplored
the reliance on ephemeral New England volunteers. Hoping to graduate to a dependable professional army, he requested a new force of twenty thousand men,
with enlistments lasting at least one year, a plan ratiﬁed by the politicians in Philadelphia. He sensed his visitors’ eagerness for a tremendous victory before the embattled British Army could be relieved by fresh troops in the spring. That October,
after King George III declared the upstart colonies to be in a state of open rebellion,
the Crown replaced General Thomas Gage—ridiculed as “Blundering Tom” by his
men—with the formidable Major General William Howe.12 Washington knew that
all hope for reconciliation with Great Britain had now been snuffed out. Prompted
by his visitors, he convened a second war council on October 18, 1775, and informed
his generals that he had received “an intimation from the Congress that an attack
upon Boston, if practicable, was much desired.”13 Of the eight generals, only Nathanael Greene showed enthusiasm for an attack and then only if ten thousand
troops could be safely landed in Boston.
That the British were prepared to unleash patent terror to smash patriotic conﬁdence became self-evident on October 24, when word reached camp that four British vessels had arrived at Falmouth, Massachusetts; after warning the inhabitants to
evacuate, they had incinerated more than three hundred houses. Profoundly shaken,
Washington told General Schuyler that the perpetrators had acted “with every circumstance of cruelty and barbarity which revenge and malice would suggest.”14 For
Washington, who saw the Revolution as an old-fashioned struggle between good

Land of Freedom r! 2 0 9

and evil, the Falmouth conﬂagration was further “proof of the diabolical designs”
of the leadership in London.15
Responding to the Falmouth atrocities, the General Court of Massachusetts enacted legislation permitting American privateers to patrol the coast. With the war
having idled much of the New England merchant ﬂeet, Washington obtained congressional approval to arm several vessels as privateers that could keep one-third of
the value of any British ships captured. Before long six such ships, dubbed “George
Washington’s Navy,” prowled the eastern seaboard, marking the birth of the U.S.
Navy.16 Afraid they might operate like lawless pirate ships, Washington demanded
impeccable behavior from these privateers. “Whatever prisoners you may take, you
are to take with kindness and humanity as far as is consistent with your own safety,”
he exhorted the captain of the ﬁrst schooner ﬁtted out.17 Washington’s spirits were
buoyed in late November by the capture of the British brig Nancy, carrying a small
bonanza of weaponry, including two thousand small arms, which Washington celebrated as an “instance of divine favor.”18 In an action that bespoke exceptional
trust in twenty-ﬁve-year-old Henry Knox, Washington gave him vast discretionary
power to rove through upstate New York and procure any artillery he could ﬁnd at
Fort Ticonderoga or elsewhere and haul it back to Massachusetts.
Often dismayed by his men, Washington never tired in his efforts at moral improvement. Not just a citizen-soldier, he was a citizen-statesman who wanted his
troops to uphold high standards of conduct. He wished them to be more than superb soldiers: they should set an example for patriots everywhere. In general orders
to his troops, he articulated their ideals and scolded their vices almost daily. Even in
the chaos of war, amid the squalor of an army camp, George Washington evinced
unﬂagging belief in civilized conduct.
With the possible exception of gambling, no moral failing made Washington
more apoplectic than alcohol abuse. Just as he had faulted Mount Vernon employees for excessive drinking, he grew vigilant about bibulous generals. In a “Memorandum on General Ofﬁcers” that he later drew up as president, he recorded the
demerits of each general and in almost every case commented on his drinking habits. He faulted one as “rather addicted to ease and pleasure—and no enemy it is
said to the bottle,” while another “by report is addicted to drinking.”19 The chief
dilemma in curbing alcohol consumption was that strong drink fortiﬁed the spirits
of troops. As Washington told John Hancock, the “beneﬁts arising from moderate
use of liquor have been experienced in all armies and are not to be disputed.”20 It
was hard to keep drinking within bounds, however, especially when tavern keepers
rushed to slake the thirst of idle men. Washington meted out dozens of lashes to
those found guilty of drunkenness and began regulating purveyors of liquor.

210

r! The Gener a l

As part of his campaign for personal improvement, Washington encouraged his
men to attend divine service, being careful to project an ecumenical spirit. When
troops were about to celebrate Pope’s Day in early November—the colonial equivalent of Guy Fawkes Day—Washington learned of plans to burn the pope in efﬁgy.
Hoping to draw French Catholics in Canada to the patriotic side, he chastised his
men for being “so void of common sense as not to see the impropriety of such a step
at this juncture.”21 Early on Washington recognized that both armies competed for
the loyalty of a wavering civilian population, and he held his men accountable for
behavior on and off the battleﬁeld, admonishing them that robbing local gardens
would be “punished without mercy.”22 He approved a sentence for one man “to
receive thirty-nine lashes upon his bare back” merely for stealing a cheese.23 During
the summer heat he allowed men to go swimming, then was horriﬁed to learn they
were “running naked upon the [Cambridge] Bridge, whilst passengers and even
ladies of the ﬁrst fashion in the neighborhood are passing over it.”24 In such general
orders, one hears echoes of the decorous planter from Virginia, especially when it
pertained to elegant members of the opposite sex.
In the fall of 1775 Washington banked enormous hope on an invasion of Canada
led by General Richard Montgomery and Colonel Benedict Arnold. Washington
feared that, if Canada remained in British hands, it would always represent a potential threat on the northern border. As Arnold led an expeditionary force through
the Maine wilderness, it was slowed by heavy rains, swollen streams, and ﬁerce rapids. Starving troops devoured soap and candles and gnawed on boiled moccasins.
After braving inhospitable wilds, the detachment reached the walled city of Quebec
in early December for a rendezvous with General Montgomery. Arnold’s feat astonished Washington, who expressed jubilation over the “enterprising and persevering
spirit” of the redoubtable colonel.25 As he informed General Schuyler, “The merit
of this gentleman is certainly great and I heartily wish that fortune may distinguish
him as one of her favorites.”26 Washington was so supremely conﬁdent that Montgomery and Arnold would prevail at Quebec that he even asked them to forward
blankets, clothing, and other military stores captured in the conquered city.
Even as Washington sent this request, Schuyler sat down to write a somber message, announcing General Montgomery’s death in a shattering defeat at Quebec. “I
wish I had no occasion to send my dear general this melancholy account,” wrote
Schuyler.27 Moreover a musket ball had torn a jagged slash below Arnold’s knee,
the ﬁrst of two major leg injuries that scarred him with a permanent limp. The
Quebec catastrophe was a severe setback for Washington, whose ﬁrst strategic plan
had misﬁred. The defeat also conﬁrmed his worst fears that inexperienced troops
would lose their nerve and ﬂee in panic. For Washington, the disaster underscored
the danger of relying on men with short enlistments; had Montgomery not labored

Land of Freedom r! 21 1

under that restriction, he believed, he might have continued a blockade of Quebec
and averted disaster. Arnold’s bravery, meanwhile, fostered an image, later hard to
eradicate, of an ofﬁcer who was dedicated root and branch to the cause and who
acted courageously on his own initiative.

I n t h e e a r ly y e a r s of t h e R e volu t ion, George Washington endured
a Sisyphean nightmare of whipping raw recruits into shape, only to see them melt
away when their one-year enlistments expired. Ofﬁcers were reduced to drill sergeants training soldiers in rudimentary warfare, then lost them once they learned
to ﬁght. For Washington, the failure to create a permanent army early in the war
was the original sin from which the patriots almost never recovered. Of the pernicious effect of short-term enlistments, he later wrote, “It may easily be shown that
all the misfortunes we have met with in the military line are to be attributed to this
cause.”28 Washington faced the grim prospect that on January 1, 1776, the bulk of his
army would simply vanish.
Forced to deal with human nature as it was, Washington didn’t rely on revolutionary fervor alone to win the war: he knew he had to cater to economic selfinterest as well. This aim was complicated by the fact that some states offered higher
bounties for enlistment in their militias. The soldiers exploited this system by dropping out of one unit, then popping up in another to collect a new bounty, a ruse
so pervasive that Washington said disputes about it could have engrossed all his
time.29 Instead of raising bounties to attract new recruits, Washington would have
preferred a draft, but it ran afoul of republican resistance to anything resembling a
standing army.
By late November, as snow blanketed the American camp, Washington’s spirits
drooped along with the temperature. He felt himself sinking in a quicksand from
which he might never escape. “No man, I believe, ever had a greater choice of difﬁculties and less means to extricate himself from them,” he conﬁded to his brother
Jack.30 By the end of November, a paltry 3,500 men had agreed to stay with the
dwindling army. In a conﬁdential letter to Joseph Reed, Washington succumbed to
black despair, railing against the mercenary spirit of the New Englanders as they
haggled for more money, better clothes, and more furloughs before reenlisting. The
vehemence of his anguish belies the image of a cool, unemotional Washington.
“Could I have foreseen what I have and am like to experience,” he told Reed, “no
consideration upon earth should have induced me to accept this command,” he
said with a touch of melodrama.31
As he mulled over various schemes to strengthen his frail army, Washington
wrestled with the vexed question of whether to accept blacks into the Continental

21 2

r! The Gener a l

Army, not as an instrument of social policy but as a matter of stark military necessity. Many people were struck, not always favorably, by the prevalence of black
soldiers in Cambridge. Captain Alexander Graydon of Pennsylvania sniffed that the
“number of Negroes . . . had a disagreeable, degrading effect.”32 In contrast, General
John Thomas of Massachusetts told John Adams, “We have some Negroes, but I
look upon them in general [as] equally serviceable with other men . . . many of
them have proved themselves brave.”33
During the summer Washington pretty much dismissed blacks as riffraff, halting the enlistment of “any deserter from the ministerial army, nor any stroller, negro, or vagabond.”34 For a large southern slaveholder, the idea of arming blacks
stirred up uncomfortable fantasies of slave revolts. But Washington had to reckon
with the tolerance of his New England men, who had accepted blacks as stouthearted comrades at Lexington and Concord and Bunker Hill. A black man, Peter Salem, had fought so heroically at Bunker Hill that he had been brought to
Washington’s attention. Nonetheless at an October war council, Washington and
his generals voted unanimously “to reject all slaves and by a great majority to reject Negroes altogether.”35 A month later Washington made this exclusionary policy
explicit: “Neither Negroes, boys unable to bear arms, nor old men unﬁt to endure
the fatigues of the campaign are to be enlisted.”36 By lumping healthy black soldiers
with boys and old men, Washington insinuated that they were inferior and could be
counted on only as a last resort.
On November 7 Lord Dunmore announced that slaves or indentured servants
who had ﬂed from their rebel masters could join his Royal Ethiopian Regiment and
win their freedom. Eight hundred slaves soon ﬂocked to his banner and were clad
in British uniforms with the motto “Liberty to Slaves” stitched across them.37 For
the ﬁrst wave of escapees, such liberty proved deceptive: many died of smallpox on
ships cruising Virginia’s rivers. In early December Lund Washington informed the
commander in chief of the “dreaded proclamation” and conjectured that, while
white indentured servants at Mount Vernon might be tempted to escape, he didn’t
worry about the slaves. Washington already loathed Lord Dunmore, having recently observed that if “one of our bullets a[i]med for him, the world would be
happily rid of a monster.”38 Outraged by his slave proclamation, he warned Richard
Henry Lee that if “that man is not crushed before spring, he will become the most
formidable enemy America has.”39 In an odd twist of self-serving logic, Washington
branded Dunmore an “arch traitor to the rights of humanity.”40
Whatever his personal trepidation as a slave owner, Washington knew he couldn’t
afford to cast off able-bodied men, even if they happened to be black. The Revolution forced him to contemplate thoughts that would have seemed unthinkable a year
earlier. Even as he fumed about Lord Dunmore, in late December 1775 he dashed

Land of Freedom r! 213

off a letter to John Hancock stating that “it has been represented to me that the free
Negroes who have served in this army are very much dissatisﬁed at being discarded.
As it is to be apprehended that they may seek employ in the ministerial army, I have
presumed to depart from the resolution respecting them and have given licence for
their being enlisted.”41 Two weeks later the Congress ratiﬁed this extraordinary decision and allowed free blacks to reenlist. Plainly Washington had acted under duress.
He urgently needed more men before enlistments expired at year’s end and feared
that black soldiers might defect to the British. At the same time, he was forced to recognize the competence of black soldiers. Whatever his motivations, it was a watershed moment in American history, opening the way for approximately ﬁve thousand
blacks to serve in the Continental Army, making it the most integrated American
ﬁghting force before the Vietnam War. At various times, blacks would make up anywhere from 6 to 12 percent of Washington’s army.42 Already the Revolutionary War
was proving a laboratory for new ideas that operated outside the conﬁnes of the
slavery system. Everyone felt the new force of liberty in whose name the colonists
fought and recognized the ﬂagrant contradiction of slavery. It was ﬁtting that 1775
witnessed the formation of the ﬁrst antislavery society in Philadelphia.

O n C h r is t m a s Day 17 7 5 Cambridge was gripped by freezing temperatures
and covered with a foot of snow, only deepening Washington’s gloom. So frigid was
the weather that sentries had to be replaced hourly. With trees leveled in every direction for ﬁrewood, the Continental Army inhabited a bleak, denuded landscape.
As soldiers left for home in droves, not enough remained to man the redoubts,
leaving glaring gaps in the defensive lines. Washington took the high road in calling for reenlistments, but General Charles Lee couldn’t govern his temper. As one
soldier recorded in his diary, “We was ordered to form a hollow square and General
Lee came in and the ﬁrst words was, ‘Men I do not know what to call you; [you] are
the worst of all creatures,’ and [he] ﬂung and cursed and swore at us.”43 By contrast,
Washington appealed to the New Englanders’ honor, saying that “should any accident happen to them before the new army gets greater strength, they not only ﬁx
eternal disgrace upon themselves as soldiers, but inevitable ruin perhaps upon their
country and families.”44
As the year ended, only 9,650 men had signed up for the new army, less than
half the number envisioned by Congress and scarcely a resounding afﬁrmation of
the patriotic spirit. Still, Washington struck an upbeat tone in his New Year’s Day
message, noting the ofﬁcial start of a genuine Continental Army: “This day giving
commencement to the new army, which in every point of view is entirely continental . . . His Excellency hopes that the importance of the great cause we are engaged

21 4

r! The Gener a l

in will be deeply impressed upon every man’s mind.”45 To start the new year with a
fresh slate, Washington pardoned all offenders from the old army. In truth, it was
an anxious interval for the commander in chief, who again hid his weakness. As
one army was dismissed and another assembled in its place, the British could see
thousands of soldiers leaving and might be tempted to take advantage of the situation. As he waited with bated breath, Washington told Hancock conﬁdentially, “It
is not in the pages of history perhaps to furnish a case like ours; to maintain a post
within musket shot of the enemy for six months together, without [powder] and
at the same time to disband one army and recruit another within that distance of
twenty odd British regiments.”46
In mid-January Washington complained that his army had no money, no
powder, no cache of arms, no engineers, not even a tent for his own use in a ﬁeld
campaign. He sounded a note of sleepless despair, reminiscent of Shakespeare’s
Henry IV, saying that he experienced “many an uneasy hour when all around me
are wrapped in sleep.”47 A man who hated failure, Washington again mused about
whether he had erred in accepting the top command: “I have often thought how
much happier I should have been if, instead of accepting of a command under such
circumstances, I had taken my musket upon my shoulder and entered the ranks
or . . . had retir[e]d to the back country and lived in a wigwam.”48 The British were
feeling cocky about their prospects. At Faneuil Hall in Boston that January, enemy
ofﬁcers roared with delight at a farce entitled The Blockade, supposedly written by
General John Burgoyne, which mocked Washington as a bumbling general in a big
ﬂoppy wig, ﬂailing about with a rusty sword.
At midday on January 1, 1776, the atmosphere of the conﬂict abruptly lurched
toward total war when Lord Dunmore torched Norfolk, Virginia. The ﬂeet under
his command pounded the town with cannonballs for seven hours, and the blackened ruins smoked for days. “Thus was destroyed,” wrote John Marshall, “the most
populous and ﬂourishing town in Virginia.”49 This conﬂagration banished any lingering traces of Anglophilia that Washington retained. He hoped the Norfolk holocaust would unite the country “against a nation which seems to be lost to every
sense of virtue and those feelings which distinguish a civilized people from the
most barbarous savages.”50
The conﬂict sharpened further on January 10, 1776, with the publication of
Thomas Paine’s Common Sense, a landmark pamphlet that galvanized the colonies to seek outright independence. The thirty-eight-year-old Paine was a brilliant
if abrasive personality who had arrived in Philadelphia two years before after a
checkered career as a corset maker and shopkeeper in England. While many colonists clung to the fairy tale of George III as a benign father ﬁgure in thrall to a
wicked ministry, Paine bluntly demolished these illusions, dubbing the king “the

Land of Freedom r! 215

Royal Brute of Great Britain.”51 Within three months Paine’s astonishing work had
sold 150,000 copies in a country of only three million people. Beyond its quotable
prose, Common Sense beneﬁted from perfect timing. It appeared just as Americans digested news of the Norfolk horror as well as George III’s October speech
to Parliament in which he denounced the rebels as traitors and threatened to send
foreign mercenaries to vanquish them. The historian Bernard Bailyn has noted that
“one had to be a fool or a fanatic in early January 1776 to advocate American independence,” but Paine’s work—“slapdash as it is, rambling as it is, crude as it is”—
produced that magical effect.52
Common Sense was just the ﬁllip needed by a demoralized Continental Army. In
a letter to Washington, General Charles Lee pronounced the pamphlet “a masterly,
irresistible performance” and said he had become a complete convert to independence.53 From Virginia, Fielding Lewis, Washington’s brother-in-law, informed him
that talk of independence was rapidly gaining ground and that “most of those who
have read the pamphlet Common Sense say it’s unanswerable.”54 Although ignorant
at ﬁrst of the author’s identity, Washington instantly grasped the work’s signiﬁcance. “A few more of such ﬂaming arguments as were exhibited at Falmouth and
Norfolk,” he told Joseph Reed, “added to the sound doctrine and unanswerable
reasoning contain[e]d (in the pamphlet) Common Sense, will not leave numbers
at a loss to decide upon the propriety of a separation.”55 Once his identity became
known, Paine endeared himself to the troops by donating proceeds from his pamphlet to purchase woolen mittens for them. Within a year he was traveling as an
aide-de-camp to Nathanael Greene and formed a close relationship with Washington. Even after the war Washington remained solicitous about Paine’s impoverished
state, inquiring of James Madison, “Can nothing be done in our assembly for poor
Paine? Must the merits and services of Common Sense continue to glide down the
stream of time, unrewarded by this country?”56

Wh i l e Ge orge Wa sh i ngt on t r i e d g a l l a n t ly to hold his army together that winter, Martha was displaying her own brand of valor. Starting in June
1775, both Washingtons were borne on a powerful tide that would whirl them along
for the rest of their lives. Unlike her husband, Martha wasn’t naturally courageous,
but she was a determined woman who could will herself to rise to the occasion. To
aid her husband, she conquered whatever fears or anxieties might have kept her
from his side. For more than eight years of war, she would exhibit the ﬁerce loyalty
of a Spartan wife, a trial that she endured from a combination of wifely duty and
outright patriotism.
Despite fears that Lord Dunmore might abduct her from Mount Vernon, Mar-

216

r! The Gener a l

tha had refused to move to the small town house that the Washingtons owned in
Alexandria. Washington dwelled on this possibility in so many letters that it got
Martha’s attention, and she escaped to visit Jacky and Nelly in Maryland or stayed
with her sister Anna Maria in New Kent County. Washington worried incessantly
about her. “I could wish that my friends would endeavor to make the heavy and
lonesome hours of my wife pass of[f] as smoothly as possible, for her situation
gives me many a painful moment,” he confessed to brother Samuel that fall.57 Although he wrote weekly letters to Martha, many were opened en route by “scoundrel postmasters,” as he styled them, and others never arrived at all.58 Such postal
lapses, besides isolating Martha, would have made Washington more guarded in
communicating his thoughts.
In mid-October Washington concluded that he wouldn’t be able to return to
Mount Vernon that winter and invited Martha to join him in Cambridge. He knew
that the biting chill of a New England fall would make the trip perilous and extremely uncomfortable, telling brother Jack, “I have laid a state of the difﬁculties . . .
which must attend the journey before her and left it to her own choice.”59 With her
nerves stretched taut, Martha kept postponing the trip, even though delay only increased the likelihood of heavy snow. If not born for heroics, Martha always heeded
the summons of duty when her husband called.
At last, on November 16, 1775, the diminutive Martha Washington piled into her
carriage and left Mount Vernon, accompanied by Jacky and Nelly, nephew George
W. Lewis, and Elizabeth Gates, wife of General Horatio Gates. She traveled luxuriously, her clothing packed in elegant leather trunks studded with brass nails. She
brought along ﬁve household slaves tricked out in the livery of Mount Vernon. On
this arduous northward journey, Martha discovered her sudden elevation in the
world and that she had left obscurity behind forever; henceforth fame would be her
constant companion. When she reached Philadelphia, she was greeted by a military
escort and was mystiﬁed by the fuss made over her. She had passed through the city,
she observed in amazement, “in as great pomp as if I had been a very great somebody.”60 The church bells pealed when she reached Newark, and at Elizabethtown a
light horse cavalry trotted beside her, providing an honorary escort. Nevertheless,
for a woman who dreaded water, the constant ferry crossings must have been an
ordeal, and to bump along six hundred miles of rutted roads in frigid weather must
have tested even the faithful Martha. She expressed her stoic credo thus: “I am still
determined to be cheerful and to be happy in whatever situation I may be.” 61
Historians often note that Martha Washington spent each winter of the war
with her husband, leaving before ﬁghting resumed in the spring, but this bland
statement doesn’t quite capture the scope of her sacriﬁce. Mount Vernon curator
Mary Thompson has computed that Martha spent between 52 and 54 months with

Land of Freedom r! 2 1 7

her husband in a war that would drag on for 103 months; in other words, she spent
about half the war with the Continental Army.62 At a minimum she stayed two or
three months each winter, but some stays lengthened to seven, eight, or even nine
months, until she jokingly referred to herself as “the great perambulator.”63 Because
Washington couldn’t afford to abandon his army, Martha’s willingness to join him
was of inestimable value. Due to his delicate position in the war, he had to keep
his emotions bottled up. He couldn’t afford to show weakness or indecision and
needed a wife to whom he could reveal his frustrations.
The secretive Washington also had an acute need for male conﬁdants to whom
he could unbosom himself completely. He had enjoyed “unbounded conﬁdence”
in his closest aide, Joseph Reed, before the latter went off to Philadelphia in late
October to attend his law practice and didn’t return to Cambridge.64 Distraught,
Washington deemed Reed’s services “too important to be lost” and tried to coax
him into returning.65 Chained to his desk with correspondence, Washington saw
himself turning willy-nilly into a bureaucrat. He needed a surrogate who was not
only a good scribe but could intuit the responses he himself would write. “At present my time is so much taken up at my desk that I am obliged to neglect many other
essential parts of my duty,” he pleaded to Reed. “It is absolutely necessary therefore
for me to have persons that can think for me as well as execute orders.”66 Not until
the advent of Alexander Hamilton and other proﬁcient aides was Washington ﬁnally liberated from his clerical labors.
On December 11, 1775, Martha Washington arrived in Cambridge, not having
seen her husband since May. To bedraggled soldiers in the wintry camp, her appearance in the glamorous coach with a slave retinue must have seemed unreal
and resplendent. Lady Washington, as she was known in an incongruously aristocratic touch, was still comparatively young at forty-four. Yet when Charles Willson
Peale painted her the following year, he noted something matronly in the face, plus
a seriousness in her direct, unaffected gaze. When she joined her husband at the
imposing Vassall mansion, she was thrust into a busy, working atmosphere. Here
Washington mapped strategy, held war councils, and conducted his voluminous
correspondence with Congress. Washington’s aides also slept in the house, with
several crammed into a single room, while the general commandeered one drawing room as his ofﬁce. He soon pressed Jacky Custis into service as a messenger.
A dozen servants, several of them slaves, waited on ofﬁcers, and the staff even included a tailor and a French cook. Among the household staff was a free black
woman, Margaret Thomas, who worked as a seamstress and entered into a love affair with Billy Lee. Possibly because of this, Thomas seemed to irritate Washington,
who wished that he would “see her no more,” but he retained her on the payroll,
possibly for Billy, who came to consider himself married to her.67

218

r! The Gener a l

In this crowded house, George and Martha Washington would have found privacy hard to come by. Washington made a bid for conjugal privacy by ordering
a curtained four-poster bed before his wife’s arrival. Despite these concessions to
gentility, nothing could mask the stark reality of a military camp. By the end of
December, as the British continued ﬁring shells from Boston, Martha had trouble
coping with the tension. If the men were inured to these intrusions, they were awful
new realities to her. “I confess I shudder every time I hear the sound of a gun,” she
wrote to her friend Elizabeth Ramsay. “. . . To me that never see anything of war, the
preparations are very terrible indeed. But I endeavor to keep my fears to myself as
well as I can.”68 Since Washington had segregated his military from his home life,
this was Martha’s ﬁrst exposure to war, and she showed real gumption in facing
down her fears. The image of her as a small, grandmotherly woman overlooks the
fortitude that made her a natural mate for Washington.
Observers noted the companionable relationship between George and Martha
Washington. As Nathanael Greene informed his wife, “Mrs. Washington is excessive fond of the General and he of her . . . They are happy in each other.”69 Mercy
Warren saw how Martha’s gentle affability could “soften the hours of private life
or . . . sweeten the cares of the hero and smooth the rugged pains of war.”70 Washington seemed more relaxed in Martha’s presence, and they loved to share a humorous moment. One day eighteen-year-old Joseph White went to receive orders
from Washington. He had adopted the ﬁctitious rank of an ofﬁcer, and Washington
immediately detected the imposture. “Pray, sir, what ofﬁcer are you?” he asked. The
young man claimed to be an assistant adjutant in the artillery regiment. “Indeed,”
responded Washington, “you are very young to do that duty.” “I told him I was
young,” White recalled, “but was growing older every day.” He said that Washington
had “turned his face to his wife and both smiled.”71
Long a wealthy woman, Martha adapted to the austere camp life and looked
askance on lavish consumption. Soon after her arrival, she was invited to a fancy
dress ball at a local tavern, which local radicals protested as inappropriate in wartime. Four representatives met with her and requested that she boycott the event.
One recalled that Martha reacted with “great politeness” and sent her “best compliments” to the protesters, assuring them “that their sentiments on this occasion
were perfectly agreeable unto her own.”72 The ball was canceled on the spot. While
Martha Washington could have ducked the issue, saying she would consult her husband, she showed conﬁdence in her judgment and ingratiated herself to the men.
At ﬁrst Washington balked at Martha’s suggestion that they celebrate their Twelfth
Night anniversary, but he ﬁnally submitted and allowed a gala celebration to be
held. Before long Martha took out her needles and was knitting stockings for the
soldiers.

Land of Freedom r! 219

Since Washington had a good deal of entertaining to do, Martha oversaw the
social side of headquarters. For morning visits, she offered oranges and wine to
guests and heartier fare for midafternoon meals. At these gatherings, Washington
experienced relief from his burdensome labors and enjoyed his favorite Madeira
wine combined with the camaraderie of several pretty young women. A particular
favorite was the fetching Caty Greene, wife of Nathanael. Washington’s fondness
for the young brunette was only enhanced that February when she gave birth to a
boy christened George Washington Greene. A woman of stunning good looks, the
sociable Caty was coy and high-spirited. Henry Knox dismissed her as superﬁcial,
but Washington didn’t seem to care. Even as local gossips whispered about her ﬂirting with the commander in chief, he seemed enchanted by her company and teased
her good-naturedly about her “Quaker-preacher” husband.73 Inasmuch as Martha
was fond of the younger woman, Caty could hardly have enjoyed an illicit romance
with the general.
It is testimony to Martha’s social versatility that she won over women who were
far more intellectual than she. Mercy Otis Warren, a proliﬁc bluestocking who
wrote poems, plays, and histories, called on Martha, and they immediately became
fast friends. As Warren reported to Abigail Adams, “I took a ride to Cambridge
and waited on Mrs. Washington at 11 o’clock, where I was receiv[e]d with that politeness and respect shown in a ﬁrst interview among the well bred and with the
ease and cordiality of friendship of a much earlier date.”74 Washington knew the
shortcomings of Martha’s education, and when she corresponded with intellectual
women such as Mercy Warren, he or a secretary would draft her replies. There’s no
evidence that Martha objected to this practice and may even have felt that it spared
her embarrassment.
During the long Cambridge winter, the Washingtons perceived the mythical
stature that the hopeful populace was foisting upon them. A man named Levi Allen
wrote to Washington, hailing him as “our political father,” and in 1778 an almanac
described him as the “father of his country.”75 A couple called the Andersons named
their twins George and Martha, while three ships were christened for the general’s
wife. A town in western Massachusetts renamed itself Washington. In January 1776
Washington set eyes on a ﬁctitious engraving of himself, printed in London, by an
artist who falsely claimed to have based it on an actual sitting with him. With wry
amusement, Washington noted drily that the artist had created “a very formidable
ﬁgure of the Commander in Chief, giving him a sufﬁcient portion of terror in his
countenance.”76
By far the most sparkling tribute came from the pen of a young woman, Phillis
Wheatley, who resided in Boston and honored Washington with a ﬂattering ode
mailed to him in late October 1775. In polished couplets reminiscent of Alexan-

22 0

r! The Gener a l

der Pope, she burnished Washington’s image: “Proceed, great chief, with virtue on
thy side, / Thy ev’ry action let the goddess guide. / A crown, a mansion, and a
throne that shine, / With gold unfading, Washington! Be thine.” The youthful poetess lauded America as “the land of freedom’s heaven-defended race!” which was
the more remarkable given that Phillis Wheatley was a twenty-two-year-old slave.77
Seized in Africa at age seven or eight, she had been sold to John Wheatley, a Boston
tailor, as a personal slave for his wife. The Wheatleys recognized the girl’s gifted
nature, schooled her in Scriptures and ancient classics, and allowed her to live with
the family. In 1773 she published in London a collection of verse, Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral. The frontispiece showed an arresting picture of
Wheatley in which her personality leaps out. She looks smart and self-assured, with
her chin supported by her ﬁngers and her quill poised above the page as she stares
coolly into the distance. The volume made her the most celebrated black person in
America.
Not until mid-December did Wheatley’s poem come to Washington’s attention, and he didn’t ﬁnd time to reply until late February. His cordial, respectful
letter is little short of astonishing for a large Virginia slave owner replying to a
young woman in bondage. This was the same Washington who had recently reviled
Lord Dunmore as diabolical for promising freedom to defecting slaves. Washington
started his note by saying that he should have replied sooner. “But a variety of important occurrences, continually interposing to distract the mind and withdraw the
attention, I hope will apologize for the delay and plead my excuse for the seeming,
but not real, neglect. I thank you most sincerely for your polite notice of me in the
elegant lines you enclosed. And however undeserving I may be of such encomium
and panegyric, the style and manner exhibit a striking proof of your great poetical
talents.”78 He concluded with an invitation: “If you should ever come to Cambridge
or near headquarters, I shall be happy to see a person so favour[e]d by the Muses
and to whom nature has been so liberal and beneﬁcent in her dispensations. I am
with great respect your obed[ien]t humble servant.”79 This is the sort of exquisite
letter that, once upon a time, Washington might have reserved for the eyes of a
duchess. Few incidents in the early days of the war suggest how powerfully Revolutionary ideals were transforming George Washington as his reaction to Phillis
Wheatley.
Washington considered publishing the poem, but feared it might be misinterpreted as a mark of vanity. Also the poem, with its imagery of crowns and
thrones, had some uncomfortable overtones. Nevertheless Washington appears
to have received Phillis Wheatley at his Cambridge headquarters in March with
a “very courteous reception,” and through Joseph Reed, the poem found its way
into print in April.80 It didn’t seem to bother Washington that Wheatley was a

Land of Freedom r! 221

slave, and it evidently didn’t bother Wheatley that Washington was a substantial
slave owner. Certainly there were Mount Vernon slaves whom Washington knew
intimately and some to whom he spoke in a friendly manner, such as Billy Lee,
but he had never met any black person on such terms of social equality. That
Washington appreciated Wheatley’s poetry and received her warmly showed his
great potential for growth. Once again he had displayed a striking capacity to
adapt to new circumstances, even though he still had an immense distance to
travel on the slavery issue.

chapter nineteen

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

T he Heights

Th e r e pu bl ic a n i de ol o g y that Washington absorbed from his avid reading of Revolutionary pamphlets never ﬁt easily with his patrician reﬂexes as a Virginia planter. Perhaps few actions he took during the war exhibited his inconsistent
nature in such bold relief as his creation of a personal guard during the dispiriting Cambridge winter. In part, the decision arose from legitimate concerns for his
safety. “To guard against assassination, which I neither expect nor dread, is impossible,” Washington later wrote, but he knew that kidnapping attempts were always
a possibility, especially since he himself would hatch a couple of failed schemes to
kidnap British generals.1
His order to forge a personal guard or Life Guard, as it was commonly called,
also sprang from a desire to be surrounded by a crack team of disciplined professionals who would accompany him whenever he rode out to review the troops. Protective of his historical reputation, Washington committed the care of his personal
papers to this guard. Having such an elite corps at the beck and call of the chief
general was a throwback to the glittering world of European armies.
In general orders for March 11, 1776, Washington instructed the commanding
ofﬁcer of each regiment to pluck out four men apiece for his guard. His description of what he wanted shows how much stock he placed in appearance. The men
should be “from ﬁve feet eight inches high to ﬁve feet ten inches; handsomely and
well made; and as there is nothing in his [i.e., Washington’s] eyes more desirable
than cleanliness in a soldier, he desires that particular attention may be made in the
choice of such men as are neat and spruce.”2 This precision was strange indeed at a
time when Washington feared his army might crumble into dust.

The Heights r! 223

A year later Washington issued new instructions that tightened requirements
for the unit. Now he wanted his bandbox men to “look well and be nearly of a
size.” He narrowed the height range—“I desire that none of the men may exceed in
stature 5 feet 10 inches, nor fall short of 5 feet 9 inches”—and said they should be
“sober, young, active, and well made.”3 Although Washington allowed class preferences to trump ideology, he didn’t want it to get around and enforced secrecy on
the ofﬁcers: “I am satisﬁed there can be no absolute security for the ﬁdelity of this
class of people, but yet I think it most likely to be found in those who have family
connections in the country. You will therefore send me none but natives and men
of some property, if you have them. I must insist that in making this choice you give
no intimation of my preference of natives as I do not want to create any invidious
distinction between them and the foreigners.”4 It should be said that Washington
had noticed that a disproportionate number of foreign-born troops defected to the
British side to pocket lucrative bounties.
Washington decked out his handpicked men in blue and buff uniforms, their
round hats sprouting blue and white feathers and ornamented with bearskin strips.
Nervous about the expense, he again demanded secrecy, noting that these costs created an “expense which I would not wish should go forth.”5 His painstaking regard
for appearances wasn’t limited to his Life Guard. That January he told his troops
that “nothing adds more to the appearance of a man than dress” and that he hoped
“each regiment will contend for the most soldierlike appearance.”6 Even in the waning days of the war, he was preoccupied by an absence of hats, for the lack “of which
the beauty and uniformity of the other articles will be in a great measure lost . . .
and the troops can never make a military appearance.”7 He ordered ofﬁcers to lend
hats an attractive image “by cutting, cocking, or adding such other decorations as
they think proper.”8 Washington’s perfectionism about looks extended down to his
horses. His most famous steed, Old Nelson, a chestnut horse with a white face,
earned the distinction of being the ﬁrst “nicked” horse in America—that is, the root
of his tail was incised so that he carried it with a high ﬂourish. Washington was well
aware of the towering impression he made on horseback.

O n Ja n ua ry 1 4 , 17 76 , Washington informed John Hancock that the state of
American arms was “truly alarming.”9 His prayers for more ﬁrepower were soon
answered. Three days later, beaming with good news, Henry Knox lumbered into
camp after a two-month absence. He reported the imminent arrival of heavy weapons carted three hundred miles from Fort Ticonderoga. Incredibly, Knox had taken
almost sixty mortars and cannon, weighing about 120,000 pounds, and mounted
them on forty-two giant sleds. Through thickening December snow, teams of oxen

224

r! The Gener a l

had hauled this ponderous artillery up and down mountain passes, across frozen
rivers, and down village lanes as spectators gaped in wonder. The entire grand procession seemed quasi-miraculous, and Henry Knox became the hero of the hour,
executing one of the war’s legendary feats. In an instant, the entire conﬂict was
transformed, for Washington could now contemplate offensive action against British troops bottled up in Boston.
The arrival of the big Ticonderoga guns was providential. Washington remained
dangerously short of gunpowder and ﬁrearms, and two thousand men lacked muskets or ammunition. Things had come to such a desperate pass that Benjamin
Franklin suggested to General Charles Lee that the troops be furnished with bows
and arrows. “Those were good weapons,” Franklin admonished him, “not wisely
laid aside.”10 So perilous was the plight of his troops that Washington confessed to
Joseph Reed, “I have been oblig[e]d to use art to conceal it from my own ofﬁcers.”11
He had succeeded so brilliantly in pretending to be securely armed that his main
supporters overestimated his strength and expected more zeal in dislodging the
British. As Washington observed, “The means used to conceal my weakness from
the enemy conceals it also from our friends and adds to their wonder.”12
One missing prerequisite for an offensive operation was a blast of cold air to
freeze the waterway between the Continental Army and the British troops, allowing
an invasion of Boston without employing boats. When the temperature plummeted
to near zero in late January, forming an icy crust on the water, Washington monitored it carefully. On February 13, at Lechmere Point, he determined that the ice had
sufﬁciently thickened to freeze the channel all the way to Boston. Hence on February
16 he convened a war council to present a plan for “a bold and resolute assault upon
the troops in Boston.”13 His skeptical generals unanimously voted it down, ﬁnding
the plan ﬂawed because they were short of gunpowder and couldn’t soften up the
British beforehand with heavy bombardments. They also believed that Washington
had overstated the size of American forces and underrated British strength.
With reluctance, Washington accepted their verdict and said tartly to Joseph
Reed that they had waited all year for the bay to freeze, but now that it had, “the
enterprise was thought too dangerous!” At the same time, he admitted that his “irksome” situation had perhaps led him to advocate a rash action that might have
miscarried.14 There was nothing despotic in Washington’s nature, making him the
ideal leader of a republican revolution, but he still had to learn when to trust his
instincts and overrule his generals. It was both Washington’s glory and his curse
that he was so sensitive to public opinion, so jealous of his image, and so willing to
listen to others.
The veto of his generals steered the discussion to a second plan that turned
into one of the war’s inspired maneuvers. The high ground of Dorchester Heights,

The Heights r! 225

which loomed over Boston from the south, could be used to defeat the British if it
was fortiﬁed. This strategic bluff, more than one hundred feet high, had remained
unarmed for several reasons. Spies in Boston reported General Howe’s solemn vow
to “sally forth” and snuff out the rebellion if the Americans attempted to occupy
it.15 And thorny logistical questions remained. How could fortiﬁcations be built on
ice-encrusted ground? How could the Americans move the Ticonderoga guns up to
the lofty ridge within full view and range of enemy guns?
The ingenious solution was to haul the guns into position under cover of darkness during a single night. Noise from the operation would be mufﬂed by ﬁring
steady salvos from Roxbury, Cobble Hill, and Lechmere Point and by wrapping
wagon wheels with straw to deaden their sound. To obstruct the vision of British
troops, the patriots would throw up intervening screens of hay bales. Washington
and his generals hit upon the clever expedient of prefabricating the fortiﬁcations
elsewhere, making it necessary only to transport them to the heights. By now a
champion bluffer, Washington also had earth-ﬁlled barrels lined up before the parapets, giving a deceptive show of strength. These convenient props could also come
thunderously crashing down on any British troops foolhardy enough to storm the
hillside.
By late February, Washington was persuaded that the contemplated operation
would lure the British into an engagement on terms favorable to the Americans.
One lesson he had learned from the French and Indian War was that fear was contagious in battle, especially among inexperienced troops. Without disclosing the
exact nature of the impending operation, he warned his soldiers bluntly that “if
any man in action shall presume to skulk, hide himself, or retreat from the enemy
without the orders of his commanding ofﬁcer, he will be instantly shot down as an
example of cowardice.”16
At midnight on March 2 the patriots began ﬁring diversionary volleys at the
British, who replied with earsplitting cannon ﬁre—sounds of war loud enough to
startle Abigail Adams from her sleep in nearby Braintree. These cacophonous exchanges persisted through the next night. On the night of March 4, Washington
recalled, the moon was “shining in its full luster,” as the weather cooperated with
the unfolding operation. “A ﬁner [night] for working could not have been taken
out of the whole 365,” wrote the Reverend William Gordon. “It was hazy below [the
Heights] so that our people could not be seen, though it was a bright moonlight
night above on the hills.”17 Washington directed operations on horseback, his familiar form visible in silhouette to his men. Under the tutelage of Henry Knox, the
American artillery strafed Boston in a ferocious cannonade. “Our shells raked the
houses and the cries of the poor women and children frequently reached our ears,”
wrote Lieutenant Samuel Blachley Webb.18

22 6

r! The Gener a l

Hidden by the roar and ﬂash of cannon, General John Thomas supervised three
thousand soldiers and oxen-led wagons as they dragged the big guns, weighty barrels, and preassembled ramparts up the steep slope. The unforgiving ground was
covered with ice two feet thick, packed hard as rock. At sunrise on March 5 the
British saw that something wondrous had happened overnight: Dorchester Heights
had been converted into a full-ﬂedged fortress, making the British occupation of
Boston seem untenable. Not a single American soldier had been lost in the operation. Legend maintains that, upon beholding the massed American guns, an incredulous General Howe exclaimed, “My God, these fellows have done more work
in one night than I could make my army do in three months.”19 On this anniversary
of the Boston Massacre, Washington strode among his men, shouting at them to
“remember it is the ﬁfth of March, and avenge the death of your brethren,” and the
men roared back their assent.20 As in the French and Indian War, Washington was
no remote leader but an active, rousing presence. “His Excellency General Washington is present animating and encouraging the soldiers,” wrote Dr. James Thacher,
“and they in return manifest their joy, and express a warm desire for the approach
of the enemy.”21
The second phase of Washington’s strategy called for Generals Putnam, Sullivan, and Greene to speed across the Charles River with four thousand men and
pummel Boston if Howe’s troops could be drawn out into a bloody engagement at
Dorchester Heights. The British seemed about to wade into this cleverly laid trap.
Despite skepticism among some ofﬁcers, General Howe elected to throw more than
two thousand troops against the heights, and legions of bystanders scurried eagerly
across the surrounding hills to await the grand battle scene. Washington was convinced that, if he could ﬂush the British from Boston, they could be bombarded by
lethal ﬁre.
John Trumbull remembered Washington making one last meticulous survey of
his defenses, only to be frustrated by an unforeseen shift in the weather: “Soon after
his visit, the rain, which had already commenced, increased to a violent storm and
[a] heavy gale of wind, which deranged all the enemy’s plan of debarkation, driving
the ships foul of each other.”22 Girded for battle, Washington was woefully disappointed and told General Lee that the storm was “the most fortunate circumstance
for them and unfortunate for us that could have happen[e]d. As we had everything
so well prepared for their reception . . . I am conﬁdent we should have given a very
good account of them.”23 Some chroniclers have interpreted the raging tempest
as an accidental blessing that safeguarded American troops set to cross a mile of
open water, only to encounter well-entrenched redcoats in Boston. “Had the storm
not intervened,” wrote James T. Flexner, “ . . . the troops Washington had intended
to land in Boston could never have regained their boats. They would have been

The Heights r! 227

trapped. They would either have had to annihilate the British or be themselves
entirely defeated.”24 The one certainty is that the storm averted an engagement that
might have been decisive for one side or the other.
The upshot of the successful arming of Dorchester Heights was a British decision to evacuate Boston, albeit with British forces largely unmolested. Some historians have argued that Howe planned to leave anyhow and that this fresh threat
merely accelerated the timetable and afforded a convenient cover story. For Washington, it marked a triumphant ﬁnale. On the night of March 9 Howe unleashed
a deafening cannonade against Dorchester Heights, ﬁring seven hundred cannonballs, a move that barely camouﬂaged frantic movements inside Boston to abandon
the town. As Washington monitored developments, the town deteriorated into a
scene of tumultuous disorder; British troops pitched disabled cannon and produce
barrels into the harbor so they wouldn’t fall into patriot hands. Debris bobbed in
the water everywhere or lay heaped upon the shore. Crowds of desperate Loyalists
surged onto overloaded ships in a chaotic spectacle. The sense of shock was palpable among these refugees, prompting some to dive to death in the chilly waters.
As Washington wrote to his brother Jack, “One or two have done what a great many
ought to have done long ago—committed suicide. By all accounts, there never existed a more miserable set of beings than these wretched creatures now are, taught
to believe that the power of Great Britain was superior to all opposition.”25 On
Sunday, March 17, with the distant din of patriot cheers ringing in their ears, nine
thousand quick-stepping redcoats and numerous Loyalists boarded an armada of
120 ships stretching nine miles out to sea and left Boston forever. “Surely it is the
Lord’s doings and it is marvelous in our eyes,” wrote Abigail Adams.26
In a measure of Washington’s growing maturity, he indulged in no public bragging, even if he gloated in the privacy of print. Priding himself on staying coolheaded, he didn’t give way to jubilation, especially since it took ten days for the
British ships to sail away. One of his hallmarks as a commander was unremitting
vigilance, and he worried that British soldiers would slip ashore in disguise or even
launch a surprise attack. On the alert for medical problems, Washington made sure
that the ﬁrst ﬁve hundred men who entered Boston were immune to smallpox.
Instead of basking in the limelight, he permitted General Artemas Ward to lead the
victorious vanguard into the city. When Washington himself entered on March 18,
he did so unobtrusively, almost invisible to the elated multitudes, and studied the
town with professional curiosity. It had suffered extensive damage, with buildings
razed, churches gutted, supply depots emptied, and windows smashed, but Washington said the town was “not in so bad a state as I expected to ﬁnd it.”27 He must
have thanked the Lord for the freakish storm, since he found the British defenses
“amazingly strong . . . almost impregnable, every avenue fortiﬁed.”28 He toured the

22 8

r! The Gener a l

Beacon Hill home of John Hancock and found the furniture in decent shape, with
family oil portraits still on the walls. In their haste to leave, the British had discarded a huge trove of supplies, including 30 cannon, 3,000 blankets, 5,000 bushels
of wheat, and 35,000 planks of wood.
In general, Washington handled his maiden victory with aplomb. When he
informed Hancock of the British evacuation, he had the tact to congratulate not
himself but Hancock and “the honorable Congress.”29 Instead of condoning the
plunder that accompanies victory, Washington threatened to punish offenders
severely. He set an orderly tone and deferred to civilian authorities, demanding
that suspected Tories still in Boston be guarded by his men until the Massachusetts
legislature ruled on their future. “If any ofﬁcer or soldier shall presume to strike,
imprison, or otherwise ill-treat any of the inhabitants, they may depend on being
punished with the utmost severity,” he announced.30 In a beautiful symbolic act,
he returned a horse given to him after learning that it had been swiped from a
departed Tory who had been “an avow[e]d enemy to the American cause.”31 Once
again, by opposing vindictive actions, Washington shaped the tone and character
of the American army.
Only in private letters did Washington allow himself to crow a little. As he
told brother Jack, “No man perhaps since the ﬁrst institution of armies ever commanded one under more difﬁcult circumstances than I have done . . . I have been
here months together with what will scarce be believed: not thirty rounds of musket cartridges a man.” With so little ammunition, he had defeated “two and twenty
regiments, the ﬂower of the British army, when our strength have been little, if any,
superior to theirs and at last have beat them in a shameful and precipitate manner out of a place the strongest by nature on this continent . . . strengthened and
fortiﬁed in the best manner and at an enormous expense.”32 The modest boasting
masked the fact that Washington would have preferred a bloody and decisive encounter to the self-protective British decision to sail away and ﬁght another day.
For his feat, Washington was lionized as never before and exalted into a historic
personage, collecting heaps of honors. By bestowing upon him an honorary degree,
Harvard supplied the long-standing defect in his education. In a tribute drafted by
John Jay, Hancock assured Washington that history would record that “under your
direction an undisciplined band of husbandmen in the course of a few months became soldiers.”33 Showing steady progress in egalitarian sentiments, Washington
conceded that his men had started out as a “band of undisciplined husbandmen,”
but that it was “to their bravery and attention to their duty that I am indebted for that
success which procured for me the only reward I wish to receive, the affection and
esteem of my countrymen.”34 This was a notable step forward for a man who had so
recently wrinkled his nose at the ﬁlthy, money-grubbing New England troops. The

The Heights r! 2 2 9

Massachusetts politician Josiah Quincy assured Washington that his name would
be “handed down to posterity with the illustrious character of being the savior of
your country.”35 Such effusive praise reﬂected the patriots’ need for a certiﬁed hero
as a rallying point as much as Washington’s skill in expelling the British. Canonizing
Washington was a way to unite a country that still existed only in embryonic form.
Curtailing any show of vanity, Washington reacted with studied modesty and stole a
line from Joseph Addison’s Cato, telling Quincy, “To obtain the applause of deserving men is a heartfelt satisfaction; to merit them is my highest wish.”36
As a way of celebrating Boston’s liberation, Congress struck its ﬁrst medal,
showing Washington and his generals atop Dorchester Heights. It also commissioned a portrait by Charles Willson Peale in which Washington displays none of
the swagger of a triumphant general. The look in his eyes is sad, anxious, even
slightly unfocused, as if his thoughts had already turned to his upcoming troubles
in New York. His shoulders appear narrow, and his body widens down to a small
but visible paunch. It was way too soon for a full-ﬂedged cry of triumph, Peale
seemed to suggest, and events would prove him absolutely right.

Ev e n be for e t h e Br i t ish s a i l e d for Nova Scotia, Washington had guessed
correctly that they would end up in New York, whose numerous waterways would
play to the strength of the world’s mightiest navy. With the redcoats gone, he apprised Congress, he would “immediately repair to New York with the remainder of
the army.”37 He knew that if the British controlled the Hudson River, they would
effectively control the all-important corridor between Canada and New York City,
bisecting the northern and southern colonies. New York was also a stronghold of
fervent Tories, noted Washington, ﬁlled with disaffected people “who only wait a
favorable opportunity and support to declare themselves openly.”38 Hoping to head
off this prospect, he started the journey southward on April 4, accompanied by his
new personal guard, moving as rapidly as the many ceremonial dinners allowed. He
didn’t yield to the euphoria that infected many compatriots and grimly prepared
for the impending campaign, knowing that the patriots hadn’t yet experienced the
full brunt of British power. The Crown needed to crush this uprising conclusively
and establish colonial supremacy, lest it endanger the structure of its entire empire.
It couldn’t afford to be humiliated by a ragged band of upstarts.
Having preceded Washington to New York, General Lee reacted with perplexity
to the task of defending a city crisscrossed by waterways. Sleepless with worry and
incapacitated by gout—he was carried into the city on a stretcher—Lee began to
defend New York from naval assault by installing artillery at Governors Island in
the upper bay, Red Hook in Brooklyn, and Paulus Hook (later Jersey City) on the

230

r! The Gener a l

Hudson’s western shore. The same qualities that made New York a majestic seaport
turned it into a military nightmare for defenders. There was hardly a spit of land
that couldn’t be surrounded and thoroughly shelled by British ships. “What to do
with the city, I own, puzzles me,” a stumped Lee wrote to Washington. “It is so
encircled with deep, navigable water that whoever commands the sea must command the town.”39 In hindsight, the city was certainly doomed, but Washington
considered it “a post of inﬁnite importance” that would be politically demoralizing
to surrender without a ﬁght.40
By the time Washington arrived on April 13, Lee had been posted to Charleston,
South Carolina, leaving Israel Putnam in command. A mood of foreboding gripped
the city, causing many inhabitants to ﬂee. Washington set to work at his headquarters on lower Broadway, right beside the Battery. A despised symbol of royalty, an
equestrian statue of George III, stood outside his door on Bowling Green. When
Martha arrived four days later, she and her husband occupied a mansion north of
the city that had been vacated by Abraham Mortier, the former deputy paymaster
general of British forces in America. With its wide verandas and splendid views of
the Hudson River, the house stood in bucolic Lispenard’s Meadows, at what is now
the intersection of Varick and Charlton streets.
Because British troops had been accused of abusing Boston’s citizens when they
were billeted there, Washington took pains to prevent such misbehavior by soldiers
lodged in Manhattan houses. He comprehended the war’s political dimension and
swore that soldiers would have to answer for “any wood being cut upon the ﬂoors or
any water or ﬁlth thrown out of the windows.”41 To win the allegiance of local farmers, he warned his men against trampling crops in their ﬁelds. More difﬁcult to supervise were men frequenting the Holy Ground, the notorious red-light district near
the Hudson River where up to ﬁve hundred prostitutes congregated nightly on land
owned by Trinity Church. Venereal disease raced through several regiments, threatening to thin their ranks before the enemy arrived. As William Tudor of Boston
wrote home, “Every brutal gratiﬁcation can be so easily indulged in this place that
the army will be debauched here in a month more than in twelve at Cambridge.”42
Over the winter Washington had wondered whether his plenary authority over
troops in Cambridge extended to operations in New York. Showing exemplary
modesty with Congress, he had consulted John Adams, who proclaimed unequivocally that “your commission constitutes you commander of all the forces . . . and
you are vested with full power and authority to act as you shall think for the good
and welfare of the service.”43 This seminal moment wiped away any doubt that
Washington wielded continental power and oversaw a national army. Where another man might have grown giddy, the new power sobered him. “We expect a very
bloody summer of it at New York and Canada,” he told brother Jack in late May, “as

The Heights r! 23 1

it is there I expect the grand efforts of the enemy will be aim[e]d, and I am sorry
that we are not, either in men or arms, prepared for it.”44
Having visited New York only twice before, Washington needed to familiarize
himself with this new terrain. The harried general complained of being holed up in
his ofﬁce with endless paperwork when he wanted to be out in the ﬁeld. He faced
the herculean task of shoring up a chain of posts stretching across lower Manhattan
to Brooklyn. Building on Lee’s plans, he projected the construction of a pair of twin
forts, to be known as Fort Washington and Fort Lee, on rocky high ground farther
up the Hudson, outposts designed to prevent the British from turning the river into
a thoroughfare to Canada. Washington knew that in New York the odds were badly
stacked against him. To ward off attacks by sea, he sealed off the end of every street
with a barricade and sank offshore obstructions to British ships. By early June the
Continental Army had 121 cannon in Manhattan, on the New Jersey shore, on Governors Island, and in Brooklyn, all ready to bombard the British ﬂeet.
Though satisﬁed with his progress, Washington was dismayed to learn in May
that King George III had hired seventeen thousand German mercenaries to ﬁght
in North America. This news conﬁrmed that the conﬂict would be resolved only
through a long, bloody war. Soon to be a master at espionage, Washington wondered whether he could inﬁltrate patriotic Germans among the Hessians to stir up
disaffection and spur desertions.
In late May he rode to Philadelphia to consult with Congress about military
strategy, trailed by unfounded rumors that he intended to resign. The round of
talks made clear that the patriots would contest every square inch of New York,
however impossible that seemed. Philadelphia was ablaze with talk about declaring independence from Great Britain, but Washington, as a military man, withheld
public comment. In private, however, he was more militant than ever and scoffed
at congressmen who were “still feeding themselves upon the dainty food of reconciliation.”45 Prodded by Washington, Congress decided to offer ten-dollar bounties
to attract new soldiers and also set up a Board of War, headed by John Adams, to
improve recruiting and supply distribution.
By this point it was self-evident that Martha Washington would spend extended
periods with her husband and might be exposed to smallpox. Washington could not
advocate inoculation if his own wife shrank from it. After the liberation of Boston,
Martha had refrained from entering the city to celebrate with ofﬁcers’ wives who
enjoyed immunity to the disease. She had vowed to be inoculated against smallpox,
but Washington remembered how anxious she was when Jacky was inoculated in
1771; he doubted she would now make good on her pledge. Nevertheless, when they
reached Philadelphia, Martha conquered her fears and submitted to the procedure.
She came down with a fever and developed only a dozen pustules (none on her

232

r! The Gener a l

face), spending several weeks in quarantine. On June 10 Jacky Custis, in Maryland
with his wife, wrote an appreciative note to Washington about his mother’s successful recovery. He used the occasion to express gratitude for everything his legal
guardian had done, thanking him for the “parental care which on all occasions you
have shown me. It pleased the Almighty to deprive me at a very early period of life
of my father, but I cannot sufﬁciently adore His goodness in sending me so good
a guardian as you Sir. Few have experienc[e]d such care and attention from real
parents as I have done. He best deserves the name of father who acts the part of
one.”46 It was an eloquent, well-deserved tribute for the often-thankless care that
Washington had given to his stepson.

Wi t h m a n y L oya l ists scattered across the city, a more pervasive fear of espionage existed in New York than in Boston, where the patriots and British had been
widely separated. With thousands of troops cooped up in southern Manhattan in a
tense atmosphere, a vigorous hunt was launched in early June for Tories who allegedly supplied British warships off Sandy Hook and spied on patriots. On June 17 the
New York Provincial Congress received a shocking report from a Loyalist named
Isaac Ketchum, who was arrested on counterfeiting charges. While held at City Hall,
Ketchum ﬁngered two members of Washington’s personal guard, Thomas Hickey
and Michael Lynch, also detained on counterfeiting charges, as being in league with
the British to sabotage the Continental Army as it defended New York. In their
wild boasting, the two men had contended that when British warships anchored
in the harbor, William Tryon, the royal governor, would distribute royal pardons to
defectors. Lynch and Hickey also referred darkly to “riﬂemen on Staten Island” and
“Cape Cod men” who were supposed confederates in the plot.
As the probe widened, investigators learned that a gunsmith named Gilbert
Forbes was assigned to pay off turncoats to the British side and that Forbes was being
supplied with money by David Mathews, New York’s mayor. Once alerted to this allegation, Washington moved swiftly and had Mathews arrested at one o’clock in the
morning at his Flatbush home. Under questioning, Mathews admitted that Governor Tryon had “put a bundle of paper money into his hands” and asked him to convey it to Forbes to purchase riﬂes and muskets. Only after the war did Mathews add
the sensational disclosure that “he had formed a plan for the taking Mr. Washington
and his guard prisoners.”47 Mathews named Thomas Hickey, a swarthy, brazen fellow, as a henchman in the plot. Washington believed that the conspiracy originated
with Tryon, who had employed Mathews as his cat’s-paw. A dozen arrests occurred
as rumors ran through town that the commander in chief had refused to eat a plate
of poisoned peas that had subsequently killed some chickens.

The Heights r! 233

News of the plot unleashed a wave of ﬁerce reprisals against New York Tories;
some of them were tarred and feathered, and others were subjected to the torture
of “riding the rail.” Once the angry atmosphere cooled down and Hickey’s courtmartial began, the plot took on more modest proportions. The conspirators had
planned to spike patriot guns when the British ﬂeet arrived, in return for pardons
and bonuses. One witness testiﬁed that seven hundred patriots had promised to
defect. In his testimony, he made a claim that must have unnerved Washington:
no fewer than eight members of Washington’s personal guard formed part of the
plot. Hickey showed no remorse, was found guilty of sedition and mutiny, and was
singled out for hanging. Not taking any chances, Washington deployed 140 men to
guard him and other prisoners at City Hall.
The entire conspiracy had the unintended effect of rallying support for Washington, whose life had been in jeopardy. But he didn’t want to exaggerate the plot,
which might have been demoralizing. In reporting it to John Hancock, he said it
had been concocted by the guilty parties “for aiding the King’s troops upon their
arrival. No regular plan seems to have been digested, but several persons have been
enlisted and sworn to join them.”48 He also believed that 200 to 250 Loyalist conspirators were hiding in the Long Island woods and swamps; he had boats patrol
the Narrows at night to intercept anyone trying to ﬂee to British-controlled Staten
Island.
Mayor Mathews and several others were packed off to Connecticut to serve jail
time—a lenient sentence for a treasonous plot—and either escaped or were let go
without a trial. Washington decided to make an example of Hickey and ordered
every brigade to witness his hanging at eleven a.m. on June 28, 1776. The gallows
were erected in a ﬁeld near the Bowery, and twenty thousand spectators—virtually
the entire New York population—turned out to watch. Hickey waived his right to a
chaplain, calling them “cutthroats,” and managed to hold back tears until the hangmen actually looped the noose around his neck.49
In his general orders for the day, Washington drew a rather bizarre lesson from
Hickey’s fate. He hoped the punishment would “be a warning to every soldier in the
army” to avoid sedition, mutiny, and other crimes “disgraceful to the character of
a soldier and pernicious to his country, whose pay he receives and bread he eats.”50
The next sentence gave a strange twist to the whole affair. “And in order to avoid
those crimes, the most certain method is to keep out of the temptation of them
and particularly to avoid lewd women who, by the dying confession of this poor
criminal, ﬁrst led him into practices which ended in an untimely and ignominious
death.”51 This coda, with its sternly puritanical lesson, shows that Washington may
have been more worried about health hazards posed by the Holy Ground than by
treasonous plots.

chapter twenty

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

All London Aﬂoat

By t h e su m m e r of 17 76 the British were convinced that they would make
quick work of the rebel forces and took comfort in a superior, complacent tone.
Braggadocio—always a poor substitute for analysis—grew fashionable in ofﬁcial circles in London. At the start of the year, Lord Rawdon assured the Earl of
Huntingdon that “we shall soon have done with these scoundrels, for one only
dirties one’s ﬁngers by meddling with them. I do not imagine they can possibly
last out beyond this campaign.”1 Lord Sandwich, First Lord of the Admiralty,
reacted contemptuously to the notion that the sheer number of colonists could
overpower royal forces. “Suppose the colonies do abound in men, what does that
signify? They are raw, undisciplined, cowardly men.”2 George Germain, secretary
for the American colonies, cherished the hope that all that was needed was a
“decisive blow.”3 What was required was a show of force so huge and terrifying
that the deluded colonists would tremble at the assembled might of the British
Empire.
While Great Britain did have a respectable army, it paled beside those of France,
Austria, and Prussia. It was the Royal Navy that was peerless in Europe, and New
York Harbor was a big enough basin to absorb this giant ﬂeet. Awaiting these ships,
Washington had his men strain every nerve to detect their arrival, even sleeping
with their arms and “ready to turn out at a minute’s notice.”4 On June 29 patriotic
sentries stationed on Staten Island signaled to Washington that forty British ships,
the ﬁrst installment of the ﬂeet, had been spotted off Sandy Hook and would soon
glide majestically through the Narrows. The news touched off hysterical activity in
Manhattan. Writing in rapid, telegraphic style, Henry Knox informed his brother:

All London Aﬂoat r! 235

“The city in an uproar, the alarm guns ﬁring, the troops repairing to their posts,
and everything in the height of bustle.”5
Washington had decided to make a costly (and in the end, mistaken) gamble
of trying to hold New York. In fairness, it must be said that Congress had assigned
a high priority to retaining the city. A day earlier Washington had issued an urgent summons to Massachusetts and Connecticut to dispatch militia posthaste to
the city, and he now accelerated preparations for an imminent British attack, having his men pile up sandbags everywhere. Faced with incessant work, the tireless
Washington noted that he was “employed from the hour of my rising till I retire to
bed again.”6 Prompted by fear, a tremendous exodus of women and children left
New York, crossing paths with an inﬂux of militia. “On the one hand,” wrote the
Reverend Ewald Shewkirk, “everyone that could was packing up and getting away;
and on the other hand country soldiers from the neighboring places came in from
all sides.”7 Reﬂecting the parlous state of things, Washington exiled Martha to the
comparative safety of Philadelphia. To make their separation tolerable, she asked
Charles Willson Peale to execute a miniature watercolor of her husband clad in his
blue uniform and gold epaulettes.
Until reinforcements arrived, Washington was woefully shorthanded. He had
fewer than 9,000 men, with 2,000 too sick to enter combat. Meanwhile, he steeled
himself for the advent of 17,000 German mercenaries who would form part of a
gigantic expeditionary force—the largest of the eighteenth century—that might
total 30,000 soldiers. When this ﬁrst wave of ships grew visible from Manhattan,
an armada of 110 warships and transport boats, the sight was impressive, almost
dreamlike, to behold. “I could not believe my eyes,” Private Daniel McCurtin wrote
after peering at the panoply of British power. “Keeping my eyes ﬁxed at the very
spot, judge you of my surprise when, in about ten minutes, the whole bay was full
of shipping . . . I declare that I thought all London was aﬂoat.”8
These were the same ships that had evacuated Boston in March and marked
time in Halifax before sailing south to New York. Fortunately for Washington, this
advance guard under Major General William Howe, his former nemesis from the
siege, decided not to force the issue. Some British ships dropped anchor off
Gravesend, Long Island, and newly arrived British soldiers camped on Staten Island, but no offensive action materialized. General Howe was biding his time until
the bulk of the ﬂeet, sailing from England under the command of his brother Richard, Admiral Viscount Howe, joined him in New York.
In general orders for July 2, Washington tried to rouse his untried men with impassioned words. He had a genius for exalting the mission of his army and enabling
the men to see themselves, not as lowly grunts, but as actors on the stage of history.
“The time is now near at hand which must probably determine whether Americans

23 6

r! The Gener a l

are to be free men or slaves . . . The fate of unborn millions will now depend, under
God, on the courage . . . of this army.”9 That same morning an alarming incident
occurred when ﬁve British men-of-war passed through the Narrows and seemed
on course to attack patriot forts. Confronting this threat, the Continental Army
reacted with notable esprit de corps. Colonel Samuel Blachley Webb wrote in his
diary that “never did I see men more cheerful. They seem to wish the enemies’
approach.”10 Despite his uneasiness, Washington was encouraged by this spirited
response, telling Hancock that “if the enemy make an attack, they will meet with
a repulse as . . . an agreeable spirit and willingness for action seem to animate . . .
the whole of our troops.”11 In the end the British ships approached no closer, and
Washington concluded that General Howe had deferred action until his brother’s
arrival. Thus far Washington had commanded the Continental Army for an entire
year without engaging in a single battle, but he knew he would shortly experience
his ﬁrst decisive test.

A n u n wav e r i ng a dvo c at e of independence, Washington thought his
compatriots would eventually come to share his belief. “My countrymen, I know,
from their form of government and steady attachment heretofore to royalty, will
come reluctantly into the idea of independency,” he wrote that spring. “But time
and persecution brings many wonderful things to pass.”12 In May, to his delight,
the Virginia Convention in Williamsburg favored independence, and his neighbor at Gunston Hall, George Mason, drew up an eloquent Declaration of Rights
that featured the lines “That all men are born equally free and independent, and
have certain inherent natural rights . . . among which are the enjoyment of life and
liberty, with the means of acquiring and possessing property, and pursuing and
obtaining happiness and safety.”13 Thomas Jefferson would prune and shape these
words to famous effect. Still another Virginian, Richard Henry Lee, introduced a
congressional resolution on June 7 declaring “that these United Colonies are, and
of right ought to be, free and independent states.”14 On July 2 Congress approved
Lee’s resolution, then spent the next two days haggling over the precise wording
of the Declaration of Independence. The ﬁnal text was approved on July 4. Congress had two hundred broadsides printed up and disseminated throughout the
colonies.
On July 6 Hancock sent Washington a copy and asked him to have it read aloud
to his army. The Declaration made the rebels’ treason ofﬁcial and reminded them
of the unspeakable punishments the British government meted out for this offense.
Only recently a British judge had handed down this grisly sentence to Irish revolutionaries: “You are to be drawn on hurdles to the place of execution, where you

All London Aﬂoat r! 23 7

are to be hanged by the neck, but not until you are dead, for while you are still
living your bodies are to be taken down, your bowels torn out and burned before
your faces, your heads then cut off, and your bodies divided each into four quarters.”15 The British proved more lenient to captured American ofﬁcers, but Washington knew that treason was a capital crime and that he had passed the point of
no return. Employing a vivid metaphor, he later said that he and his colleagues had
fought “with halters about their necks.”16 In the event of defeat, Washington knew,
he would be hanged as the chief culprit; he decided that he would “neither ask for
nor expect any favor from his most gracious Majesty.”17 He contrived a plan to ﬂee,
if necessary, to lands he owned in the Ohio Country, telling Burwell Bassett that “in
the worst event, they will serve for an asylum.”18
On July 8 Washington held in his hands a broadside of the Declaration of Independence for the ﬁrst time and ordered his troops to gather on the common at
six p.m. the next evening to hear it read aloud. In general orders for July 9, he previewed its contents by noting that Congress had declared “the United Colonies of
North America” to be “free and independent states.”19 Lest this sound abstract, he
underscored the practical signiﬁcance for the average soldier, pointing out that each
was “now in the service of a state possessed of sufﬁcient power to reward his merit
and advance him to the highest honors of a free country.”20 Among other things,
Congress could now coin money and devise other lucrative incentives.
The troops rejoiced upon hearing the document. “The Declaration was read
at the head of each brigade,” wrote Samuel Blachley Webb, “and was received with
three huzzas by the troops.”21 Washington was gratiﬁed by the “hearty assent” of his
men and their “warmest approbation” of independence.22 News of the Declaration
elicited snide rebukes from the British side, one ofﬁcer saying that it served to highlight “the villainy and the madness of these deluded people.”23
Reading of the document led to such uproarious enthusiasm that soldiers
sprinted down Broadway afterward and committed an act of vandalism: they toppled the equestrian statue of George III at Bowling Green, decapitating it, then
parading the head around town to the lilting beat of ﬁfes and drums. The patriots
made excellent use of the four thousand pounds of gilded lead in the statue, which
were melted down to make 42,088 musket bullets. Washington was appalled by the
disorder. Ever the strict parent, he told his men that while he understood their high
spirits, their behavior had “so much the appearance of riot and want of order in the
army” that he disapproved their actions and urged that in future they should be left
to the “proper authority.”24 His reproach might have sounded priggish, but Washington wanted this revolution to be an orderly one, with due respect for property,
and he refused to abide even the desecration of the king’s statue. He sounded rejuvenated by the Declaration, writing deﬁantly to Hancock on July 10 that should the

23 8

r! The Gener a l

British mount an attack, “they will have to wade through much blood and slaughter
before they can carry any part of our works.”25
Such bravado proved premature. On the afternoon of July 12, propelled by a
stiff breeze and a powerful tide, ﬁve British ships—the forty-gun Phoenix and the
twenty-gun Rose, along with a schooner and two tenders—sailed toward the Battery. In their ﬁrst test, American defenses failed miserably. Only half the artillerists
manned their guns, and hundreds of gaping soldiers stood onshore transﬁxed by
the enemy ships, as if attending a sporting regatta. It was an ominous sign for the
still-amateurish Continental Army. Six patriots were killed in an artillery company
under Captain Alexander Hamilton when their cannon exploded, possibly from
defective training or from mishandling by intoxicated gunners.
Unscathed by steady ﬁre from the Manhattan and New Jersey shores, the Phoenix and the Rose streamed up the Hudson River and pounded the urban population
of New York with a terrifying two-hour cannonade that shrouded the city in smoke
and panicked its occupants. The episode demonstrated the vulnerability to British
warships of a town encircled by water. Attuned to the psychology of war, Washington saw with dismay that his soldiers were unnerved by the plight of overwrought
civilians. Since his own early combat experience had been in frontier locations,
this urban chaos was something altogether new for him. “When the men-of-war
passed up the river,” Washington observed, “the shrieks and cries” of the women
and children were “truly distressing and I fear will have an unhappy effect on the
ears and minds of our young and inexperienced soldiery.”26 Afterward Washington tried to clear the city of remaining civilians to avoid a repetition of the episode. He was especially indignant at soldiers who had stood hypnotized by British
ships bombarding the town. The next day Washington chastised them unsparingly:
“Such unsoldierly conduct must grieve every good ofﬁcer and give the enemy a
mean opinion of the army . . . a weak curiosity at such a time makes a man look
mean and contemptible.”27 Just as Washington feared, the British ships’ foray in the
Hudson severed communications between New York and Albany and the strategically located upstate lakes.
Washington had gotten his ﬁrst unforgettable taste of British sea power. Because
of their speed and mobility, enemy ships could disappear, then surface anywhere,
and they would keep him in suspense for the next seven years. As he would complain, “The amazing advantage the enemy derive from their ships and the command of the water keeps us in a state of constant perplexity.”28 On the evening of
the Phoenix and Rose episode, Washington and his ofﬁcers noticed that the appearance of a new ship, the Eagle, triggered delirious cheers from British soldiers aboard
ships and encamped on Staten Island, and they deduced correctly that Admiral
Richard Howe had arrived.

All London Aﬂoat r! 239

The Howe brothers, whose grandfather had been elevated to the peerage by
King William III, boasted a blue-blooded pedigree that the young George Washington might have envied. Educated at Eton, befriended by King George III, they
had become moderate Whig members of Parliament. Tall, well built, and graceful,
the pleasure-loving General William Howe, forty-seven, had bold eyebrows, full
lips, and a dusky complexion. He had fought bravely at Quebec in the French and
Indian War and exposed himself to danger at Bunker Hill. He indulged the vices
common to his class, especially gambling and whoring, and saw no reason why
the American war should dampen his escapades. He took as his North American
mistress the fetching Boston-born Elizabeth Lloyd Loring and made her husband,
Joshua Loring, Jr., a commissary of prisoners. This opportunistic husband, content to be cuckolded, played the bawd for his wife, who became notorious as “the
Sultana of the British army.”29 As one Loyalist writer said cynically, “Joshua had no
objections. He ﬁngered the cash, the general enjoyed madam.”30 Admiral Richard
Howe, ﬁfty, less of a bon vivant than his younger brother, had earned the nickname
“Black Dick,” which referred to both his complexion and to his downcast nature.
He was a somber man, thin-faced and tight-lipped, with a cool, somewhat forbidding gaze. So marked was his reticence that Horace Walpole described him as
“silent as a rock.”31 For all that, he was a superb seaman, renowned for his courage,
ﬁghting spirit, and ethical standards.
As convinced believers in the British Empire and sympathetic to colonial grievances, the Howe brothers didn’t want to crush the patriots in a total war of annihilation. Still hopeful that their misguided American cousins could be restored to
their senses, they came to North America bearing both peace and a sword. In the
coming campaign, they would plot strategy with political as well as military considerations in mind.
On July 14, in their capacity as peace commissioners, the Howe brothers sent
Lieutenant Philip Brown with a message for Washington. Backed by the intimidating presence of the British ﬂeet, Richard Howe requested, in polite terms, a parley:
“The situation in which you are placed and the acknowledged liberality of your
sentiments, induce me very much to wish for an opportunity to converse with you
on the subject of the commission with which I have the honor to be charged.”32
Washington tended to be skeptical of peace overtures as ruses used to “distract,
divide, and create as much confusion as possible,” as he characterized them in the
spring when he ﬁrst heard that Britain might send commissioners.33
Lieutenant Brown’s boat was intercepted between Governors Island and Staten
Island by three American boats, whose crews demanded to know his business. When
Brown said that he had a letter for Washington, the Americans instructed him to
stay put while they sought instructions onshore. The three American ofﬁcers who

2 40

r! The Gener a l

came out to handle the situation—Henry Knox, Joseph Reed, and Samuel Blachley
Webb—had been well coached by Washington. They told Brown that they refused
to touch the letter until he told them to whom it was addressed. When Brown retorted that it was addressed to “George Washington Esq., etc. etc.,” they said no such
person existed and they couldn’t receive it. Somewhat mystiﬁed, Brown asked to
whom it should be addressed, and his interlocutors replied that “all the world knew
who Gen[era]l Washington was since the transactions of last summer.”34 Brown
tried to strike a conciliatory tone. “I am sure Lord Howe will lament exceedingly
this affair, as the letter is quite of a civil nature and not a military one.”35 Thus ended
the initial standoff.
Washington knew that this exchange involved much more than the ﬁne points of
decorum. He was now the de facto head of state of a newly minted country, and his
treatment reﬂected the perceived legitimacy of his authority. “I would not upon any
occasion sacriﬁce essentials to punctilio,” Washington explained to Hancock, “but
in this instance . . . I deemed it a duty to my country . . . to insist upon that respect
which in any other than a public view I would willingly have waived.”36 Lord Howe’s
secretary, Ambrose Serle, grew hopping mad at Washington’s rebuff. “So high is the
vanity and the insolence of these men! . . . There now seems no alternative but war
and bloodshed, which must lay at the door of these unhappy people.”37
Washington suspected that the British would renew their entreaty, and on July
16 he spurned another letter addressed to “George Washington, Esq.” Serle again
gnashed his teeth, remarking that the letter “was refused for the same idle and insolent reasons as were given before.”38 His remark shows the condescending attitude of
at least some British commanders toward Washington. Referring to him as if he were
still a youthful subaltern in the French and Indian War, Serle sneered that “it seems
to be beneath a little paltry colonel of militia at the head of banditti or rebels to treat
with the representative of his lawful sovereign because ’tis impossible for him to give
all the titles which the poor creature requires.”39 Washington planned to teach the
British a lesson. They ﬁnally sent him a letter on July 17, addressed to “His Excellency,
General Washington,” with a request that he meet with Lieutenant Colonel James
Paterson, the smooth-talking adjutant general of General William Howe. Believing
that protocol had been satisﬁed, Washington agreed to meet with the British ofﬁcer
on July 20. He chose as his venue Henry Knox’s headquarters at 1 Broadway, near
the water; if a spot deeper inside the city had been chosen, he would have needed to
blindfold Paterson, and he didn’t care to demean him in that manner.
At noon on July 20 a barge arrived at the Battery with Colonel Paterson. Washington wanted to impress upon the British emissary that, as commander in chief of a
sovereign nation, he should be treated with all due dignity. His personal guard lined
up in crisp formation at the entrance, and Washington appeared in full battleﬁeld

All London Aﬂoat r! 2 4 1

regalia, leading Knox to tell his wife that the general was “very handsomely dressed
and made a most elegant appearance.”40 The stagecraft had the desired effect upon
Paterson, who “appeared awestruck, as if he was before something supernatural,”
wrote Knox. “Indeed, I don’t wonder at it. He was before a great man indeed.”41 Paterson groveled considerably and prefaced every sentence with “May it please your
Excellency” or “If your Excellency so pleases.”42 Washington exacted revenge for
previous indignities. When Paterson laid on the table the original letter from Richard Howe, addressed to “George Washington Esq. etc. etc.,” Washington wouldn’t
pick it up and balked at the et ceteras. Paterson explained that the et ceteras implied
everything that might follow. To which Washington retorted, “It does so—and anything!”43 He was suavely implacable before Paterson’s studied servility.
At this point Paterson launched into a prepared speech about how the goodness
and benevolence of the king had induced him to send the Howe brothers to reach
an accommodation with the unhappy colonists, this meeting being the ﬁrst step.
Washington denied that he was vested with powers to negotiate a settlement. Then
he showed what a deft diplomat he could be. According to Joseph Reed’s memo, he
argued that the Howe brothers had only the power “to grant pardons; that those
who had committed no fault wanted no pardon; that we were only defending what
we deemed our indisputable rights.”44 Paterson acknowledged that this opened a
wide ﬁeld for discussion. Washington remained polite, treating him with impeccable courtesy and even inviting him “to partake of a small collation” before he
returned to his ship.45 He was always careful to separate the personal from the political, the man from the mission. If the British had hoped to mollify Washington,
their diplomatic overture failed. The same day that he received Colonel Paterson,
Washington wrote to Colonel Adam Stephen and decried “the vile machinations
of still viler ministerial agents.”46 Two days later he dismissed the peace efforts of
the Howe brothers as a mere propaganda exercise calculated expressly “to deceive
and unguard, not only the good people of our own country, but those of the English nation that were averse to the proceedings of the king and ministry.”47 Once
Washington had set his sights on independence, his vision was unblinking, and his
consistency proved one of his most compelling qualities.

By l ate Ju ly Washington’s men were laboring in a parched city under a blazing
sky. “From breakfast to dinner I am boiling in a sun hot enough to roast an egg,” Knox
groused to his wife. “Indeed, my dear Lucy, I never suffered so much from fatigue in
my life.”48 It was precisely the atmosphere in which disease festered, and dysentery,
typhoid fever, malaria, and smallpox infected the troops, disabling up to a third of
them. “The vile water here sickens us all,” wrote Philip Fithian, a Presbyterian chap-

242

r! The Gener a l

lain attached to the New Jersey militia. “I am very sick.”49 Illness was so prevalent
that some regiments couldn’t ﬁeld a single healthy ofﬁcer. The men often relieved
themselves in open ditches, until Nathanael Greene warned that “the stench arising
from such places will soon breed a pestilence in the camp.”50 Responding to Greene’s
request, Washington allowed the regiments to switch more of their diet from meat to
fresh vegetables to combat scurvy. The troops also lacked uniforms, and Washington
advised them to wear hunting shirts so the British would think they faced an army of
skilled backwoods marksmen. To remedy the weapons shortage, Greene handed out
three hundred spears. All in all, the Continental Army was a bizarre, mongrel corps
that ﬂouted the rules of conventional warfare. It was a far more peculiar army than
the British troops had ever faced, leading Ambrose Serle to belittle them: “Their army
is the strangest that was ever collected: old men of 60, boys of 14, and blacks of all ages,
and ragged for the most part, compose the motley crew.”51
Chronically short of generals, Washington counted the bluff Israel Putnam as his
only major general in New York. In response to Washington’s pleas, Congress added
William Heath, Joseph Spencer, John Sullivan, and Nathanael Greene as major generals. Of this group, Washington banked his highest hopes on Greene, appointing him commander of American forces on Long Island—a striking afﬁrmation of
trust in a man with only one year of army experience. Plagued by ill health, Greene
had succumbed to jaundice earlier in the year. “I am as yellow as saffron, my appetite all gone, and my ﬂesh too,” he told his brother Jacob. “I am so weak that I
can scarcely walk across the room.” Now, in mid-August, as the Continental Army
braced for battle, Greene reported to Washington that he was struggling with a
“raging fever” and could scarcely sit up in bed.52 It was a catastrophic development
for Washington, who evacuated Greene to a house north of the city and replaced
him with John Sullivan. A ﬁery, egotistical lawyer from New Hampshire, the son
of Irish indentured servants, Sullivan had wild, unruly hair and a confrontational
personality. Washington took a balanced view of Sullivan, crediting him with being
“spirited and zealously attached to the Cause” but suffering from a “tincture of vanity” and an unhealthy “desire of being popular.”53 William Alexander, better known
as Lord Stirling, who had been in charge of New York’s fortiﬁcations, was appointed
to take over Sullivan’s division. Before the war Washington had tried to help the
rich, free-spending Stirling with his crippling debts. A convivial man, excessively
fond of drink, Stirling would distinguish himself as a brave soldier and a steadfast
supporter of Washington.
With the patriots feeling beleaguered as never before, the question of military
strategy preoccupied Washington and his ofﬁcers. The armchair generals of the
Continental Army, averaging only two years of military experience, had suddenly
become real generals. Pessimism was rampant. With a sinking feeling, Henry Knox

All London Aﬂoat r! 2 43

told his brother that the Continental Army was “not sufﬁciently numerous to resist
the formidable attacks which will probably be made.”54 Joseph Reed espoused a
cautious strategy, “a war of posts,” which he deﬁned thus: “prolong, procrastinate,
avoid any general action, or indeed any action, unless we have great advantages.”55
Under this strategy, the patriots would fortify a few strong, impregnable positions
and invite the British to attack at their peril. Charles Lee wanted to fragment the
army into nimble mobile units that could swoop down and harass the enemy as
opportunities arose. Washington was slowly being forced to adopt a cautious strategy of trying to survive as best he could and attacking only when unusual chances
emerged. The aim was to keep the Continental Army intact and wear down Britain
through a prolonged war of attrition, hoping all the while to attract European allies
who might deal a devastating blow to the enemy.
The British, for their part, did have to win a military victory; a stalemate would
be an expensive and humiliating defeat. They rejected a blockade of American ports
as too daunting even for the Royal Navy. One faction favored the blatant application of terror to scare the colonists into submission—but that strategy, tried in
Falmouth and Norfolk, had backﬁred and uniﬁed the Americans. The Howe brothers opted for a more subtle, complex agenda than their massive military presence
implied, including a concerted attempt to regain the allegiance of the rebels and
to mobilize Loyalists. They wanted to establish a British citadel in New York that
would serve as a base of operations to sustain hit-and-run raids against Atlantic
seaports, enabling their army to move more swiftly than the land-bound Continental Army. Most of all, they wanted to dominate the Hudson River and shut off New
England from the other states.
Even as Washington awaited the British onslaught, his overburdened mind
turned where it always did for comfort: to Mount Vernon, his mental sanctuary.
That August, in his spare moments, he fantasized about the groves of trees that
would brighten up each end of his mansion. Only recently he had heard from Jacky
Custis that British men-of-war had sailed up the Potomac and burned houses to
the ground, but Washington’s mind preferred to dwell on sylvan visions of home.
He could see the grounds clearly in his mind, down to the last bush. “There is no
doubt but that the honey locust, if you could procure seed enough and that seed
would come up, will make . . . a very good hedge,” he wrote to Lund Washington.
“So will the haw or thorn . . . but cedar or any kind of evergreen would look better.
However, if one thing will not do, we must try another, as no time ought to be lost
in rearing of hedges, not only for ornament but use.”56 A few days later this escapist
vision would be blotted out by the bloodshed in Brooklyn.

ch ap ter t w ent y-one

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Disaster

By m i d - August fresh contingents of British ships had converged on New York,
rounding out an expeditionary force of 32,000 troops, including 8,000 Hessian
mercenaries, and revealing the magnitude of the threat to the Continental Army.
Making a major statement about the peril of the American revolt, the Crown had
enlisted seventy warships, a full half of the Royal Navy, to deliver an overwhelming blow against the Americans. It decided to gamble all on a military solution to
a conﬂict that was, at bottom, one of principle and that depended ultimately on
recovering the lost trust of the former colonists.
A subdued Washington knew the stage was set for a major confrontation. “An
attack is now therefore to be expected,” he wrote, “which will probably decide the
fate of America.”1 His army of only 10,500 men, 3,000 of them ailing, was sadly
outnumbered and outgunned. Even though he tried to put on a brave face, he approached the impending confrontation with dread. “When I compare” the British
Army “with that which we have to oppose them, I cannot help feeling very anxious
apprehensions,” he conﬁded to Brigadier General William Livingston.2 As more militiamen streamed into New York, Washington’s army expanded to 23,000 soldiers,
but many were callow youths grabbed from shops and farms who would soon confront a highly professional military force. Washington’s pronouncements acquired
a darker tinge, as if he intuited the many deaths that lay ahead. “We must resolve to
conquer or die,” he intoned in general orders. “With this resolution and the blessing
of heaven, victory and success certainly will attend us.”3
The night of August 21, almost the eve of battle, witnessed an electrical storm
of such portentous grandeur that it might have been conjured up by Shakespeare.

Disaster r! 2 45

Major Abner Benedict, posted on the elevated portion of Long Island known as
Brooklyn Heights, which towered over the East River and housed the main American fortiﬁcation, left this graphic description of the celestial pyrotechnics whizzing
through the sky: “In a few minutes the entire heavens became black as ink, and from
horizon to horizon the whole empyrean was ablaze with lightning . . . The lightning
fell in masses and sheets of ﬁre to earth, and seemed to strike incessantly and on
every side.”4
The Howe brothers postponed an invasion to give the Hessian troops a week to
recuperate from their transatlantic journey and to see if their feeble peace overtures
bore fruit. Bafﬂed by the delay, Washington found “something exceedingly mysterious in the conduct” of these brothers, who spouted catchphrases of peace amid a
huge military buildup.5 The paramount question was whether the enemy would
land on Manhattan or on Long Island, prompting Washington to hedge his bets by
dividing his forces. This strategy, if seemingly prudent, ran the grave risk of having
British ships storm up the East River, snapping links between the army’s two wings.
To avert this possibility, Washington sank wrecks in the channels of Upper New
York Bay—one could see masts of submerged ships poking up from the water—
and seeded the East River with spiked obstacles to thwart vessels.
As storm clouds dispersed the next morning, British light infantry and grenadiers began trickling ashore at Gravesend Bay, at the southwestern corner of Long
Island. By day’s end, 15,000 redcoats had established a solid beachhead in the kind
of well-drilled maneuver at which European armies excelled. This main invading
force would soon number 22,000 soldiers, but Washington, deceived by faulty intelligence, estimated it in the neighborhood of 8,000 or 9,000 men. The miscalculation led him to misconstrue the landing as a diversion from the main event in
Manhattan—“a feint upon Long island to draw our forces into that quarter.”6 He
was further led astray when British forces came to a dead halt at Flatbush, three
miles from American lines. Retaining the majority of his men in Manhattan, Washington transferred ten battalions to Brooklyn, bringing total troop strength there to
a paltry 6,000 men. In retrospect, it is hard to see how Washington’s strategic vision
could have been so clouded as ninety British ships conducted a grand-scale movement in the Narrows.
On August 23, after touring his Long Island defenses with General Sullivan,
Washington decided to deploy 3,000 men farther south in a wooded, hilly area
called the Heights of Guana (or Gowanus Heights), which ran roughly east-west
and could cut off any northward thrusts by the enemy. With his men about to clash
with superior forces, Washington suggested that courage could outweigh sheer
numbers and implored them to show “what a few brave men, contending in their
own land and in the best of causes, can do against base hirelings and mercenaries.”7

2 46

r! The Gener a l

Just in case noble principles didn’t work, Washington reiterated that any cowards
who ﬂed would be shot. His own jitters became palpable when he promoted
Israel Putnam over Sullivan, a panicky rotation of generals that exposed the ﬂimsy
command structure of the Continental Army. So murky was the situation that nobody quite knew how many American soldiers were based on Long Island. George
Washington, age forty-four, was betraying his inexperience in guiding such a large
army.
When a favorable wind arose, Washington imagined that the British would
squeeze the Americans with a pincerlike movement, with British soldiers on Long
Island swarming up toward Brooklyn Heights while British ships moved en masse
toward southern Manhattan. On August 25 he again scrutinized the Long Island
troops and was enraged by what he saw—something more like a crazy carnival
atmosphere than a tidy military camp. Men roamed around higgledy-piggledy and
ﬁred muskets at random. Frustrated, he gave a tongue-lashing to Israel Putnam:
“The distinction between a well regulated army and a mob is the good order and
discipline of the ﬁrst, and the licentious and disorderly behavior of the latter.”8 In
his writings, Old Put seemed scarcely literate, once telling “his Excelancy ginrol
Washenton” that he had asked “each ginrol ofesor [each general ofﬁcer]” to transmit to him his “opinon in riteng [opinion in writing].” 9 Putnam’s shaky command
of English highlighted the difﬁculties Washington encountered in forming a competent ofﬁcer corps.
On August 26, after visiting the Heights of Guana, Washington still didn’t grasp
the full scope of the threat. Though he surveyed the British troops through his
spyglass and observed a sea of white tents stretching nearly five miles down
to Gravesend Bay, he still kept more than half his men in Manhattan. Only when
British ships retreated back down the Narrows did the uncomfortable truth dawn
on him. As he informed Hancock, the enemy “mean to land the main body of their
army on Long Island and to make their grand push there.”10 Incredibly, with the
vast British expeditionary force set to pounce, Washington took time out to write
to Lund Washington about selling a ﬂour shipment in Hispaniola. He rambled on
about chimney repairs and additions to the northern wing of the Mount Vernon
mansion. Such incongruous thoughts conﬁrm that Washington found a release
from overwhelming pressure by daydreaming about his estate, his battleﬁeld sedative. He confessed to Lund that being the top general was a joyless existence: “If I did
not think our struggle just . . . sure I am that no pecuniary satisfaction upon earth
can compensate the loss of all my domestic happiness and requite me for the load
of business which constantly presses upon and deprives me of every enjoyment.”11
The British had devised an ingenious battle plan that envisioned a fantastic
triple assault against American forces on Long Island. In the ﬁrst prong, Scottish

Disaster r! 2 47

major general James Grant would lead his Highlanders up the Gowanus Road in a
diversionary maneuver along the west coast of Brooklyn. In the second prong, Lieutenant General Leopold Philipp, Freiherr von Heister, would march his Hessians
through Flatbush, then swerve northward through central Brooklyn to the Heights
of Guana. The pièce de résistance, however, would be the third movement farther
east. Generals Howe, Henry Clinton, and Charles Cornwallis would sweep around
to the right and make a huge looping movement up through Flatlands. Once past
Sullivan’s and Stirling’s men, they intended to make a bold sweep west along the Jamaica Pass, punching through a ﬂagrant gap in the American defenses—a shocking
oversight by Washington and his generals. With these defenses breached, the wide
ﬂanking movement would carry them straight to Brooklyn Heights and bring them
behind Sullivan’s men, catching them in a lethal trap.
During the night of August 26 Washington was shaken from his sleep in Manhattan by news of General Grant’s move up the Gowanus Road. This clever British
stratagem seemed to conﬁrm Washington’s preconception that the enemy would
favor this shore road, enabling the Royal Navy to provide cover. When Washington
awoke again at sunrise, the British further fed his delusion by sending ﬁve warships,
assisted by opportune winds and tides, toward the East River. Had the ships reached
their destination, it might have been catastrophic for the American army, cutting
it in half and threatening Brooklyn Heights from the rear. Luckily, the wind shifted
direction, forcing the ships back down the harbor. At that point Washington and
Joseph Reed took a small launch across the East River, joining Israel Putnam and
four thousand Americans hunkered down inside the fort atop the Brooklyn bluff.
Washington ordered more regiments to cross to Long Island as the center of gravity
shifted irrevocably from Manhattan.
Riding among his troops, Washington transmitted conﬂicting messages. In the
(possibly romanticized) memories of an old soldier, the commander issued blazing
rhetoric: “Quit yourselves like men, like soldiers, for all that is worth living for is at
stake!”12 He mingled this admonition with unalloyed threats: “If I see any man turn
his back today, I will shoot him through. I have two pistols loaded. But I will not
ask any man to go further than I do. I will ﬁght as long as I have a leg or an arm.”13
Unlike other battles, where Washington rode at the head of his troops, at Brooklyn
Heights he hung back in the rear, surveying the ﬁghting to the south through his
telescope.
South of Gowanus Creek, the rotund, bibulous Lord Stirling led 1,600 men in
ﬁerce combat. With exceptional valor, the American troops fought for four hours
until they were overwhelmed by more than 7,000 British and Hessian soldiers. In
an unequal contest with a larger enemy force, the First Maryland Regiment under Colonel William Smallwood, experiencing battle for the ﬁrst time, obstinately

248

r! The Gener a l

refused to surrender a small hill that ensured an escape path for Stirling’s men.
Though they saved many retreating Americans, their casualties were frightful: of
400 men sent into the fray, only 144 survived. “Good God!” Washington reportedly
said, wringing his hands as he watched this action. “What brave fellows I must this
day lose!”14
General Sullivan dealt with an equally hellish situation as his 3,500 men tried
to prevent any British advance beyond the densely wooded Heights of Guana. The
Americans were stretched perilously thin along a defensive line that extended for
miles. An enormous number of Hessian soldiers suddenly scrambled up the slope
toward them. When Sullivan tried to retreat, he discovered that British soldiers had
encircled his men amid ferocious blasts of gunﬁre. Thousands of terriﬁed Americans, lacking bayonets to defend themselves, tried to straggle back toward Brooklyn
Heights across a blood-drenched plain. The Hessians, reacting with slashing brutality, bayoneted many men to death and impaled some captives against trees. Of this
outright butchery, one British ofﬁcer commented: “We were greatly shocked by the
massacres made by the Hessians and Highlanders after victory was decided.”15 This
was the American bloodbath the British had long envisioned, in which colonial
yokels were properly vanquished by their betters. Facing an orgy of retribution,
American prisoners were turned into slave labor. “As long as we had no horses,” said
one Hessian, “the prisoners were harnessed in front of the cannon.”16
The main reason for this slaughter was the success of the eastern ﬂanking movement along the Jamaica Pass. Marching silently by night, Howe, Clinton, and Cornwallis led ten thousand men in a column two miles long through the gaping hole
in patriot defenses. So egregious was the security lapse that the British encountered
only ﬁve mounted militia ofﬁcers at the pass, allowing them to sneak up behind
the unsuspecting Stirling and Sullivan. The American death toll for the Battle of
Brooklyn (or Battle of Long Island) was grim: three hundred killed and another
thousand taken prisoner, including, temporarily, Generals Stirling and Sullivan.
For Washington, it had been an unmitigated disaster. As Douglas Southall Freeman concluded, “The American Commander-in-Chief had appeared to be a tyro,
a bungler as well as a beginner, in comparison with the English General.”17 John
Adams summed up the case succinctly: “In general, our generals have been outgeneralled.”18 During this agonizing day, the commander in chief had been reduced
to a helpless spectator of the carnage.
If George Washington stared into the abyss at any single moment of the war,
it must have been as he contemplated the vast British force arrayed below him,
poised to shatter his army forever. Luckily, General Howe didn’t press his advantage
and withdrew his men from cannon range, even though his troops scented blood
and “it required repeated orders to prevail on them to desist.”19 Howe feared that

Disaster r! 2 49

the casualties would have been too high to justify a charge against the American
fortress. As he explained, if the troops had “been permitted to go on, it is my opinion they would have carried the redoubt, but . . . I would not risk the loss that might
have been sustained in the assault.”20
The Howe brothers imagined that they could now deliver the coup de grâce to
Washington by slipping warships behind him in the East River, catching him in a
vise between royal sailors and soldiers. Once again the weather rescued Washington.
On August 28 a chill drizzle descended steadily on Brooklyn, soaking already-soggy
ground. Since many American soldiers lacked tents, they had difﬁculty keeping
clothes and munitions dry. The next day grew even darker and wetter as Washington, riding among his men and peering through the mist, saw that British troops
had inched forward overnight, digging trenches to within six hundred yards of his
outermost position. His army was being slowly, insidiously, trapped by the enemy.
He found his men sick, bedraggled, and badly demoralized, “dispirited by their incessant duty and watching.”21 The men assigned to trench duty stood waist-deep in
pools of water—a sight that surely reminded Washington of Fort Necessity—and
the mood was scarcely relieved by the incessant roar of British cannon pummeling
American positions.
From a military standpoint, Washington stood in an untenable position, and
not only because ships might entrap him from behind. If Howe now lurched toward a thinly guarded Manhattan, Washington would not be able to save the troops
there. He had to do something daring. On August 29, at four p.m., he ordered his
generals to attend a war council at a Brooklyn Heights house called Four Chimneys with a superlative vista of New York Harbor. They voted unanimously to take
advantage of the lull in ﬁghting to withdraw from Brooklyn to Manhattan. After
days of dithering, with his back to the wall, Washington was now crisply decisive.
Though one-fourth of his men were sick, he wanted to evacuate the entire American army of 9,500 men across the East River that night, winding up the operation
by dawn. He was willing to wager everything on this operation, perhaps because he
had no other choice. Leaving nothing to chance, he decided that his troops would
be kept ignorant and told only that they were changing positions.
In a prodigious effort, operating on his last reserves of energy, Washington
pushed himself past the point of exhaustion and personally led the evacuation. He
would later claim that, for forty-eight hours, he scarcely dismounted from his horse
or shut his weary eyes. He now trusted his intuitions, as if a powerful survival instinct simpliﬁed everything. Earlier in the day he had perpetrated an excellent hoax
to prepare for the operation. On the pretense of bringing over fresh troops from
New Jersey, he had instructed General Heath to collect boats of every description
that he could ﬁnd. Now, right after dark, the Continental Army lined up to begin

250

r! The Gener a l

its silent retreat across the water. Washington himself, an indomitable presence,
presided at the ferry landing. At ﬁrst the crossing was impeded by rough winds,
and only rowboats could be used, their oars covered with cloth to mute sounds.
Then winds rose from the southeast, and sailboats could be used as the river turned
smooth as glass. In another piece of deceptive theater, Washington kept campﬁres
going in Brooklyn Heights to conceal the evacuation. He maintained such strict
secrecy that only general ofﬁcers knew the scope of the undertaking. Since nobody
could speak, the soldiers moved like ghostly sleepwalkers in a pantomime. “We were
strictly enjoined not to speak, or even cough,” wrote Private Joseph Plumb Martin.22
Although Washington tried to remove all possible supplies, the wheels of the heaviest cannon got stuck in thick mud, and this ordnance had to be discarded.
Even at its narrowest point (close to the current Brooklyn Bridge), the East
River was a mile wide and notorious for treacherous currents. The Continental
Army was exceedingly fortunate to enjoy the services of Colonel John Glover, a ship
captain from Marblehead, who led a regiment of seamen, including several free
blacks, from the Massachusetts ﬁshing ports. A small, brawny man with a broad,
square face and wild red hair, Glover had been a ﬁery political radical. The uniforms his men wore evoked sailors’ costumes: blue coats, white caps, and canvas
breeches treated to make them waterproof. As they ferried soldiers across the river,
these mariners piloted assorted small craft against brisk winds under a moonless
sky. Some of them crossed a dozen times that night. The boats, often dangerously
overloaded, sat only inches above the waterline. Amazingly enough, as these shadowy shapes glided through the night, the dozing British Army had no idea of this
hectic activity.
For George Washington, patrolling the shore on horseback, it was a night of appalling tension. The one real blunder revealed the almost insupportable pressure he
endured. He had assigned Colonel Edward Hand to defend the Brooklyn Heights
ramparts until the last moment. General Mifﬂin gave Hand premature orders to
come forward with his men to the ferry stop, and Washington was horriﬁed to
encounter them on the darkened road. At that moment, when Mifﬂin galloped up,
Washington exploded in wrath. “Good God! General Mifﬂin, I am afraid you have
ruined us!” he hissed in the dark. He labeled Mifﬂin’s order a “dreadful mistake,”
said there was still “much confusion at the ferry,” and told Hand to return at once
to the bluff.23
As the sun rose on the morning of August 30, some American troops still lingered on the Brooklyn shore, including Washington, who swore he would cross on
the last boat. Then with uncanny good fortune, a heavy fog rolled across the Brooklyn shore, screening evacuees from the stirring British. The fog lay so thick that
one could “scarcely discern a man at six yards’ distance,” said Major Benjamin Tall-

Disaster r! 25 1

madge.24 In this tumultuous ﬁnal phase, a surplus of desperate men barged onto
one boat and wouldn’t budge until a furious Washington held aloft a huge stone
and threatened to “sink [the boat] to hell” unless the men got out at once.25 They
promptly obeyed. True to his word, Washington boarded the last boat in the nick
of time: he could hear the British ﬁring as it pushed into the water. The enemy had
awakened, aghast, to discover that more than nine thousand men had traversed the
East River. Not a single American died in this virtually ﬂawless operation.
There was no time to exult over this extraordinary feat. Although it was a defensive action, it had saved the American cause in spectacular fashion. The new
nation could easily have been buried on that Brooklyn shore. Still, it was impossible to forget that Washington and his generals had bungled the defense of New
York by an elementary failure to guard the Jamaica Pass. An exhausted Washington
did not inform Congress of what had happened until a day later, after he had gotten some overdue sleep. In writing to Hancock, with becoming modesty, he did
not boast about the nocturnal retreat from Long Island, but neither did he accept
blame for the lost battle. Riding his favorite hobbyhorse, he blamed the absence of
a professional army and argued that nobody could have predicted where the British
would come ashore, forcing him to defend a vast expanse. He was especially eager
to lambast the militia, saying they were deserting in droves; whole regiments had
scampered away in fear. Fortunately for Washington, General Howe did not pursue
his men right away and sent another peace overture to Congress on September 2,
when he paroled General Sullivan as a prisoner of war. Washington scoffed at this
diplomatic offering, noting caustically that “Lord Howe had nothing more to propose than that, if we would submit, His Majesty would consider whether we should
be hung or not.”26
Manhattan patriots were shocked at the pitiable state of the soldiers who washed
up on their shores, as a defeatist mood enveloped the city. The Reverend Ewald
Shewkirk wrote that “the sight of the scattered people up and down the streets
was indeed moving. Many looked sickly, emaciated, cast down etc.; the wet clothes,
tents . . . were lying about before the houses and in the streets to dry. In general,
everything seemed to be in confusion.”27 Only two-thirds of the soldiers could take
shelter in tents. In despair, some looted homes and even pillaged the mansion of
Lord Stirling. Washington was so upset by this “plundering, marauding, and burning of houses” that he carried out a parade ground search of knapsacks.28 Trying to
calm his men, he rode along the East River and inspected his troops in full view of
the enemy. The Hessian major Carl Leopold Baurmeister said that a Captain Krug
of the artillery ﬁred two shots at Washington and his retinue, “and he would have
ﬁred a third if their horses had not kept moving.”29 As in the French and Indian
War, Washington seemed blessed with a supernatural immunity to bullets.

252

r! The Gener a l

Later on Washington asserted that he had recommended burning New York;
that he feared it would furnish the British with “warm and comfortable barracks”
and would be a perfect haven for the Royal Navy; and that Congress had overruled
him in a “capital error.”30 In fact, at Brooklyn Heights Washington assured the New
York Provincial Congress that he did not intend to torch the town and deprive
“many worthy citizens and their families” of their homes and businesses.31 When
he raised the issue in a letter to Hancock on September 2, he did so in a neutral
manner; the next day Hancock conveyed the congressional verdict that “no damage
should be done to the City of New York.”32 Unaware of how entrenched the British
would soon become, the self-styled experts in Congress insisted that they had “no
doubt of being able to recover” the city.33
At this point Nathanael Greene, having returned to service, urged Washington to burn and abandon a city teeming with Tories. The British, he feared, could
isolate American troops in southern Manhattan as they had so effectively done in
Brooklyn Heights. At a September 7 war council, Washington sided with a majority of generals who wanted to hold the town, lest its loss “dispirit the troops and
enfeeble our cause.”34 The next day a chastened Washington informed Hancock of
a compromise decision to keep ﬁve thousand men in the city, while removing the
rest to points north on the island. The tone of this letter was diametrically opposed
to the cocksure attitude Washington had exhibited after the Boston siege. Humbled
by experience, Washington said that he and his generals had resolved to wage a
defensive war, a policy from which he would only periodically deviate. “It has been
even called a war of posts, that we should on all occasions avoid a general action
or put anything to the risk unless compelled by a necessity into which we ought
never to be drawn.”35 Never again, he swore, would he send young troops into “open
ground against their superiors both in number and discipline.”36 This strategy was
neither glamorous nor particularly congenial to Washington’s personality, but it
might prove sure and effective.37 That Washington was able to adjust his strategic
doctrine again showed his capacity for growth and his realistic nature.
On September 12, alarmed by British actions in the Harlem River, another war
council revoked the earlier decision to defend New York. Two days later Washington
transferred his headquarters to a graceful Palladian mansion set on a hilltop in the
northern terrain of Harlem Heights. It was owned by Roger Morris, who had been
Washington’s successful rival for the hand of Mary “Polly” Philipse. Because many
men remained behind, the British didn’t realize that the Americans were relinquishing the city. While Putnam supervised American troops in lower Manhattan, some
militiamen manned makeshift defenses in the center of the island. One of them,
Joseph Plumb Martin, stationed at the cove of Kip’s Bay on the East River (the
East Thirties in modern-day Manhattan), ridiculed their defensive lines as “nothing

Disaster r! 253

more than a ditch dug along the bank of the river, with the dirt thrown out towards
the water.”38 For some soldiers, their only weapons consisted of sharpened scythes
fastened to poles, forming primitive spears.
During the night of September 14–15, ﬁve British ships dropped anchor in Kip’s
Bay, soon accompanied by eighty-four barges that had been secreted in Newtown
Creek on Long Island, with four thousand British and Hessian troops on board.
At eleven a.m. the warships’ big guns swiveled toward Manhattan and began to
thunder with a horrendous, sustained racket, blowing the American breastworks to
smithereens. “So terrible and so incessant a roar of guns few even in the army and
navy had ever heard before,” wrote Ambrose Serle.39 For the few hundred American
hayseeds cowering onshore, the cannonade, lasting an hour, provoked a terriﬁed
ﬂight. “I made a frog’s leap for the ditch,” wrote Joseph Plumb Martin, “and lay as
still as I possibly could and began to consider which part of my carcass was to go
ﬁrst.”40
Once the American defenses were demolished, British and Hessian troops waded
ashore in neat rows, their bayonets ﬂashing. As in the Battle of Brooklyn, the Hessians took no prisoners and oversaw mass executions, shooting in the head dozens
of young Americans who tried to surrender; one Hessian decapitated an American
prisoner and posted his head on a pike. These atrocities spread contagious fear
among the American troops, but ofﬁcers lost their nerve as well, abandoning their
men. Joseph Plumb Martin bluntly parceled out blame: “I do not recollect of seeing
a commissioned ofﬁcer from the time I left the lines on the banks of the East River
in the morning until I met . . . one in the evening.”41
Four miles north, in the Dutch village of Harlem, George Washington heard “a
most severe and heavy cannonade” and saw puffs of smoke rising from Kip’s Bay. He
traveled south as fast as he could. As usual, he plunged into the thick of the action,
heedless of his own safety. Coming to a cornﬁeld on Murray Hill, a half mile from
Kip’s Bay, he was shocked to encounter troops “retreating with the utmost precipitation and . . . ﬂying in every direction and in the greatest confusion.”42 Faced with
collapsed discipline, Washington ﬂew into a rage. He was momentarily relieved by
the appearance of Massachusetts militia and Connecticut Continentals and hollered at them to “take the wall” or “take the cornﬁeld,” motioning toward various
spots. Then as sixty or seventy British grenadiers came up the hill, these terriﬁed
men also succumbed to panic and ran in confusion, dumping muskets, powder
horns, tents, and knapsacks without ﬁring a shot. William Smallwood claimed that
Washington, Putnam, and Mifﬂin, appalled by the disorder, resorted to whipping
ﬂeeing men with their riding crops. Dr. James Thacher said that Washington “drew
his sword and snapped his pistols” to check his men but still couldn’t bring them to
stand and shoot.43 Washington’s letters to John Hancock had hinted at mounting

25 4

r! The Gener a l

exasperation with his men, but now his frustration burst into the open. The man of
consummate self-control surrendered to his emotions. Fuming, he ﬂung his hat to
the ground and shouted, “Are these the men with which I am to defend America?”44
According to another account, he swore, “Good God! Have I got such troops as
these?”45 This display of Washington’s wrath still could not stem the panic. As he
told Hancock, “I used every means in my power to rally and get them into some
order, but my attempts were fruitless and ineffectual.”46
Colonel George Weedon says that Washington grew so distraught that “he struck
several ofﬁcers in their ﬂight.”47 It is extraordinary to think of Washington ﬂogging
ofﬁcers amid a battle—a measure of his impotent frustration and shattered nerves.
Finally he was stranded alone on the battleﬁeld with his aides, his troops having ﬂed
in fright. Most astonishingly, Washington on horseback stared frozen as ﬁfty British soldiers started to dash toward him from eighty yards away. Seeing his strangely
catatonic state, his aides rode up beside him, grabbed the reins of his horse, and
hustled him out of danger. In this bizarre conduct, Nathanael Greene saw a suicidal
impulse, contending that Washington was “so vexed at the infamous conduct of his
troops that he sought death rather than life.”48 Weedon added the compelling detail
that only with difﬁculty did Washington’s colleagues “get him to quit the ﬁeld, so
great was his emotions.”49 It was a moment unlike any other in Washington’s career,
a ﬂeeting emotional breakdown amid battle.
Once again General Howe tardily pursued the Americans, enabling Washington
to evacuate almost all of his men safely to Harlem Heights. Nonetheless Howe had
bagged a great prize, a city that would serve as a perfect British headquarters for the
duration of the war. For all his valor, Washington had again been caught off guard
and he smarted from the bitter defeat. He would spend the rest of the war trying to
avenge the loss of New York and dreaming of its recapture. Moreover, the day had
provided fresh proof of how skittish his men were, ofﬁcers and infantry alike.
The next day Washington’s spirits were lifted by a skirmish in the Harlem woods
as a corps of rangers under Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Knowlton probed British
positions. At one point, as these rangers retreated, the British soldiers taunted them,
blowing a bugle with a sound used in foxhunting to signify the end of the chase.
“I never felt such a sensation before,” wrote Joseph Reed. “It seemed to crown our
disgrace.”50 It was a clever, if cruel, way to jangle the nerves of the squire of Mount
Vernon. Reed, who could be unfairly critical of Washington, claimed that the commander was still sunk in a terrible funk from the day before, his will paralyzed, and
had to be “prevailed upon” to capitalize upon the situation.51 In fact, Washington reacted to the British provocation with ﬁghting spirit. His honor insulted, he sent into
the fray Virginia riﬂemen and Knowlton’s rangers, 1,800 men in all, who chased the
British troops from the ﬁeld in what became known as the Battle of Harlem Heights.

Disaster r! 255

Although both sides counted about 150 casualties, Washington scored a small but
timely victory that buoyed his downtrodden men, and his aide Tench Tilghman said
that the American troops “gave a hurra[h] and left the ﬁeld in good order.”52
While congratulating his revived troops, Washington couldn’t resist taking a
swipe at their less glorious conduct at Kip’s Bay: “The behavior of yesterday was
such a contrast to that of some troops the day before as must show what may be
done where ofﬁcers and soldiers will exert themselves.”53 It was his way of stressing courage in warfare. Washington oscillated between severity and mercy toward
his men. When a Connecticut soldier, Ebenezer Lefﬁngwell, was found guilty of
cowardice at Harlem Heights—he had ﬂed and tried to shoot Joseph Reed, who
tried to restrain him—Washington allowed the execution to proceed almost to the
ﬁnal moment. Lefﬁngwell was already on his knees, waiting to die, when Washington decided that his army had gotten the message and pardoned him. Lest anyone
misunderstand, Washington reiterated that soldiers who ﬂed in battle “shall be instantly shot down, and all good ofﬁcers are hereby authorized and required to see
this done.”54 Dismayed by his ofﬁcers’ behavior, Washington scouted for new talent
and was impressed by the proﬁciency of a young artillery captain named Alexander
Hamilton as the latter superintended earthworks construction at Harlem Heights.
Washington “entered into conversation with him, invited him to his tent, and received an impression of his military talent,” wrote Hamilton’s son.55
On the windy night of September 20, a mysterious ﬁre started around midnight
at the southern tip of Manhattan and burned until dawn, consuming most of the
town between Broadway and the Hudson River. Trinity Church caught ﬁre and
collapsed in a thunderous crash. St. Paul’s Chapel was spared only by the timely
action of brave citizens on the roof, who smothered glowing embers blown there.
Even at Harlem Heights, more than ten miles away, Washington saw the billowing
smoke and huge showers of sparks, which surrounded the city with a luminous
glow. “Providence, or some good honest fellow, has done more for us than we were
disposed to do for ourselves,” he responded.56 The raging conﬂagration created
pandemonium in the city. “The shrieks and cries of the women and children . . .
made this one of the most tremendous and affecting scenes I ever beheld,” said
an eyewitness.57 By the next morning the ﬁre had destroyed ﬁve hundred houses,
a good quarter of the town. In relating this incident to Lord Germain, William
Tryon noted that no ﬁre bells rang that night and that “many circumstances lead
to conjecture that Mr. Washington was privy to this villainous act as he sent all the
bells of the churches out of town under pretense of casting them into cannon.”58
The British never found convincing proof to corroborate their suspicion of patriotic involvement. However, they detained more than a hundred suspects, including
Nathan Hale, who was hanged as a spy the next day.

256

r! The Gener a l

On a sleepless night after the Battle of Harlem Heights, Washington renewed his
pleas to John Hancock for long-term enlistments, saying that the unceasing turnover
of men, reliance on unseasoned militia, and lack of discipline kept his mind “constantly upon the stretch.”59 Without decent pay for ofﬁcers and men alike, nothing
could be accomplished. Everything remained in scandalously short supply—tents,
kettles, blankets, clothing. When visited by a congressional delegation, Washington
snapped that he “never had ofﬁcers, except in a few instances, worth the bread they
eat.”60 No less than Washington, Henry Knox believed that only a standing army
could defeat the British and that the current army had become “a receptacle for
ragamufﬁns.”61 Prodded by Washington, Congress agreed to give twenty dollars and
one hundred acres of land to anyone who signed up for the duration of the war.
For Washington, the beneﬁt was partly nulliﬁed by a decision to continue to allow
state politicians to appoint ofﬁcers for their own regiments, wresting power from
his hands and making ofﬁcers of men “not ﬁt to be shoeblacks.”62
As September ended, George Washington—stubborn, angry, indignant, and
sleep deprived—was steeped in misery. His worst nightmare had materialized: he
was doomed to fail because he hadn’t been given adequate means to succeed. He
needed a conﬁdant, and Lund Washington remained the recipient of choice for his
jeremiads: “In short, such is my situation, that if I were to wish the bitterest curse
to an enemy on this side of the grave, I should put him in my stead with my feelings . . . In conﬁdence I tell you that I never was in such an unhappy, divided state
since I was born.”63 Mount Vernon again offered sustenance for his weary mind,
and he pictured the new room under construction there. “The chimney in the new
room should be exactly in the middle of it, the doors and everything else to be exactly answerable and uniform,” he advised Lund. “In short, I would have the whole
executed in a masterly manner.”64

ch ap ter t w ent y-t wo

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

An Indecisive Mind

O n t h e mor n i ng of O c t obe r 1 2 General Howe applied renewed pressure on the Continental Army as 150 British ships sailed up the East River, slipping through pea-soup fog, and deposited four thousand men on the boggy turf
of Throg’s Neck, a peninsula on the Westchester shore. This marshy spot lay due
east of Harlem Heights, and Washington again brooded that the wily British might
entrap his embattled army as part of “their former scheme of getting to our rear.”1
While the intervening ground had numerous stone fences to deﬂect British advances, Washington couldn’t take any chances. In this dismal season of defeats, he
marched his endangered men eighteen miles north to the village of White Plains.
He would long recall the hardships suffered by sick soldiers forced to limp along or
be carried, so critical was the wagon shortage. The least fortunate were discharged
as unﬁt for service and left behind as common vagrants to beg by the wayside on the
road home. The plight of these pauperized soldiers, marooned on country lanes,
only compounded the difﬁculties of recruitment.
On this northward march, the battle-weary soldiers found comfort in gallows humor. Joseph Plumb Martin told of a sojourn on Valentine’s Hill, “where we continued
some days, keeping up the old system of starving.” When the soldiers resumed their
march toward White Plains, they left behind a weighty iron kettle. “I told my messmates that I could not carry our kettle any further. They said they would not carry it
any further. Of what use was it? They had nothing to cook and did not want anything
to cook with.”2 Behind the macabre humor lay the somber reality of starving men
having to swipe food from farmers’ ﬁelds to survive. Deprived of tents and blankets,
soldiers burrowed beneath heaps of autumn leaves to stay warm on cool nights.

25 8

r! The Gener a l

Around this time, Washington welcomed back General Charles Lee, who had
acquired something of a halo after defeating a British expedition to South Carolina. Lee had prevailed upon Congress to compensate him for time lost to civilian
pursuits, awarding him $30,000. In private, Lee repaid their generosity by reviling
them as “cattle” and urging Washington to ﬂout their orders.3 Lee’s popularity in
Congress only stoked his vanity and encouraged the delusion that he was being
groomed as Washington’s successor. Blind to this conceited rival, Washington renamed one of the twin forts on the Hudson—the one on the Jersey shore, opposite
Fort Washington—Fort Lee.
Once at White Plains, the Continental Army found shelter on elevated ground
above the Bronx River. The best it could manage for breastworks was to uproot
cornstalks from local ﬁelds, then pile them high with freshly turned earth stuffed
in between. On the morning of October 28 Washington surveyed Chatterton’s Hill,
a steeply wooded bluff, threaded by streams and ravines that tumbled down to the
river below. Belatedly recognizing its strategic importance, Washington decided to
fortify it. While he was on this plateau, a breathless messenger raced up to him.
“The British are on the camp, sir!” he reported to Washington, who at once told
his generals, “Gentlemen, we have now other business than reconnoitering.”4 He
assigned sixteen hundred men under General Alexander McDougall, entrenched
behind stone walls, to hold the hill.
The Americans soon faced thirteen thousand British and Hessian soldiers who
must have looked brilliantly invincible in autumn sunlight as they stepped forward
in smart columns. As General Heath recalled, “The sun shone bright, their arms
glittered, and perhaps troops never were shown to more advantage.” Amid this impressive display of force, British artillery ﬁre began to darken the ﬁne, crisp air. In
the evocative words of a Pennsylvania soldier: “The air groaned with streams of
cannon and musket shot; the hills smoked and echoed terribly with the bursting of
shells; the fences and walls were knocked down and torn to pieces, and men’s legs,
arms, and bodies mangled with cannon and grape shot all around us.”5
The bloodiest combat unfolded at Chatterton’s Hill. In the ﬁrst wave of attacks,
Captain Alexander Hamilton, positioned with two ﬁeldpieces on a rocky ledge,
sprayed the invading forces with deadly ﬁre, driving them back. After regrouping,
the British grenadiers and Hessian soldiers forded the Bronx River and bravely
clambered up the wooded slope under a thick hail of bullets. Their artillery set ﬁre
to autumn leaves, creating a thick canopy of smoke. As they rushed through burning grass, the Hessians hoisted their cartridge boxes above their heads so as not to
blow themselves up. In the end, enemy soldiers succeeded in dislodging the American forces as the militia lost heart and ran. Their fright was understandable as cannonballs ﬂew thick and fast. One Connecticut soldier recalled how a cannonball

An Indecisive Mind r! 259

“ﬁrst took the head of Smith, a stout heavy man and dash[e]d it open, then it took
off Chilson’s arm, which was amputated . . . it then took Taylor across the bowels, it
then struck Serg[ean]t Garret of our company on the hip [and] took off the point
of the hip bone . . . What a sight that was to see within a distance of six rods those
men with their legs and arms and guns and packs all in a heap.”6
For all that, the British and the Hessians suffered 276 casualties, or twice as many
as the Americans. Once again General Howe dawdled after victory and bungled a
major opportunity. In later testimony before Parliament, he traced his sluggish behavior to an aversion to unnecessary combat losses but also cited unnamed “political reasons”—perhaps his preference for a negotiated solution rather than outright
conquest of the Continental Army.
Both sides continued to place a premium on commanding the Hudson River.
The twin American outposts of Fort Washington and Fort Lee, combined with obstructions sunk in the river, were supposed to bar British ships. This assumption
represented a triumph of hope over experience. On October 9, with Washington
on hand to witness it, the British tested American defenses by sending three warships up the river. While American guns blasted away from both shores, killing
nine British sailors, the ships coasted by largely intact, their movement unimpeded
by submarine obstacles and a boom ﬂung across the river. “To our surprise and
mortiﬁcation,” Washington told Hancock, the ships passed “without receiving any
apparent damage from our forts, though they kept up a heavy ﬁre from both sides.”7
Nonetheless Congress refused to end reliance on this porous barrier and demanded
that the river defenses be reinforced.
Of the two Hudson River stockades, Fort Washington was the more impressive,
a huge pentagonal earthwork straddling the highest spot on Manhattan Island. Its
defenses meandered across a rocky bluff stretching from present-day 181st to 186th
streets. The fort had several signiﬁcant defects. Without an internal water source,
it had to rely on the Hudson River hundreds of feet below. Built on solid rock, it
scarcely possessed any topsoil from which to dig trenches, and it lacked such rudimentary amenities as a powder magazine, palisades, or barracks. Its guns, permanently trained on the Hudson River, couldn’t pivot to deal with land-based threats.
Worst of all, it held only twelve hundred men and could not shelter the three thousand patriot soldiers who might need to seek asylum there. Most soldiers had to be
posted outside the defensive perimeter, defeating the very idea of a fortress.
On November 5 three British ships again mocked the defenses of the two Hudson forts, passing by unharmed. Three days later Washington wrote to Nathanael
Greene, who was in charge of the forts, and questioned the wisdom of retaining
Fort Washington: “If we cannot prevent vessels passing up . . . what valuable purpose can it answer to attempt to hold a post from which the expected beneﬁt can-

260

r! The Gener a l

not be had? I am therefore inclined to think it will not be prudent to hazard the
men and stores at Mount Washington, but, as you are on the spot, leave it to you to
give such orders as to evacuating Mount Washington as you judge best.”8 The letter
bespoke tremendous conﬁdence in Greene, at a time when a skeptical Washington
should have been more autocratic; he should never have delegated such a crucial
decision to an inexperienced general. One suspects that, in losing New York City,
his self-conﬁdence had suffered serious damage and that he had temporarily lost
the internal fortitude to obey his instincts.
Oblivious to imminent danger, Greene regarded Fort Washington as an impregnable stronghold and thought it would be bloody folly for the British to attempt
to take it. Should the worst happen, he reasoned, he could easily transfer troops to
Fort Lee. Misled by these baseless assumptions, he ignored Washington’s advice to
empty Fort Washington of its rich store of supplies. Unknown to American commanders, a deserter named William Demont had defected to the British on November 2 and not only delivered a blueprint of Fort Washington but reported “great
dissensions” and low morale in the rebel army.9
Washington worried that his army might simply melt into nothingness. The
men were shivering with cold, ravenous for food, and prey to one malady after another. With many enlistments set to expire in late November, Washington forbade
ofﬁcers from “discharging any ofﬁcer or soldier or giving any permission to leave
the camp on any pretense whatsoever,” as if he wanted to bolt his troops in place.10
So many soldiers were giving up that one Washington aide described the roads as
thick with ragged men “returning to their homes in the most scandalous and infamous manner.”11 While wishful thinkers in the Continental Army thought Howe
might retreat into winter quarters in New York, Washington knew he might besiege
Fort Washington. More likely, he believed Howe would race across New Jersey and
try to pounce on Philadelphia. From his letters, it is clear that Washington was
preoccupied with this imagined British threat, reﬂected in the fact that he himself
took command of two thousand men in New Jersey. He left Greene in charge of
Forts Washington and Lee; had General William Heath guard the Hudson Highlands with several thousand men; and assigned Charles Lee to protect the approach
to New England with seven thousand men.
On the evening of November 13 Washington held a rendezvous with General
Greene at his Fort Lee headquarters. Far from taking Washington’s hint to downgrade Fort Washington, Greene had pursued the opposite tack, pouring in more
troops and supplies. A chorus of staff ofﬁcers, led by Joseph Reed, pleaded with
Washington to countermand these orders. Reed left a striking image of a befuddled
Washington who “hesitated more than I ever knew him on any other occasion and
more than I thought the public service permitted.”12 In hindsight, Washington ad-

An Indecisive Mind r! 2 61

mitted to a secret “warfare in my mind” that led him to bow to Greene’s faulty
judgment, even though it was “repugnant to my own judgment.”13 He continued to
misread signs of a British buildup aimed at Fort Washington, telling Hancock that
“it seems to be generally believed on all hands that the investing [i.e., siege] of Fort
Washington is one object” the British have in view. “But that can employ but a small
part of their force.”14
That General William Howe had unﬁnished business in New York grew plain
on November 15 when he sent his trusted aide Colonel James Paterson to hand an
ultimatum to Colonel Robert Magaw, the superior ofﬁcer at Fort Washington. The
British offered a frightening choice: either relinquish the fort within two hours or
brace for its destruction. Washington had underestimated the British forces that
would be mobilized to this task: Howe dedicated thirteen thousand men to the operation. With three thousand men at his command, the unbending Magaw vowed
that he was “determined to defend this post to the very last extremity.”15 This wasn’t
the war’s last instance of misplaced bravado. Washington learned of this ultimatum
while in Hackensack, New Jersey, and he instantly spurred his horse to Fort Lee, arriving at sundown. Nathanael Greene and Israel Putnam had crossed to Fort Washington, and Washington jumped into a boat to follow them. He encountered them
in the darkness in midstream, as they were being rowed back to the Jersey shore.
Messrs. Greene and Putnam reassured an agitated Washington that the men at Fort
Washington were “in high spirits and would make a good defense.”16 The three men
then spent the night at Fort Lee.
The next morning refuted the generals’ soothing words. Along with Greene,
Putnam, and Brigadier General Hugh Mercer, Washington was boarding a rowboat
to go to Fort Washington when they heard an uproar on the far bank: the British
had launched a many-sided assault against the fort, the cannon thunder ampliﬁed
by the rocky cliffs of the Hudson. Notwithstanding the danger, Washington and
his generals sped across the river, landed on the opposite shore, and mounted to
Harlem Heights, downriver from the besieged fort. They proceeded to the Roger
Morris house, a mile south of Fort Washington, whose elevation enabled them to
survey patriot defenses. There they stood, said Greene, “in a very awkward situation,” watching the enemy advance, but they “saw nothing amiss” and derived a
false sense of comfort.17 American shells pulverized the Hessian lines, littering the
battleﬁeld with hundreds of enemy casualties. As one Hessian recalled: “They lay
battered and in part shattered; dead on the earth in their own blood; some whimpering, looked at us, pleading that . . . we would ease their suffering and unbearable
pain.”18 It attested to Washington’s dauntless courage that he wished to stay with his
exposed men, but his companions convinced him that he stood in extreme danger.
After insisting that the three generals accompany him, Washington was rowed back

2 62

r! The Gener a l

across the Hudson out of harm’s way. He made a hairbreadth escape: the British
arrived at the Roger Morris house a scant ﬁfteen minutes later.
From the rocky terrain of Fort Lee, Washington watched the disaster unfolding across the water. General Howe unleashed the full terror of his arsenal on Fort
Washington, and by one p.m. almost all of the terriﬁed American soldiers were
squeezed inside the cramped fortress, now turned into a veritable death trap. The
enemy then went on a rampage, bayoneting to death any American troops they
could capture. As he stood high on the Jersey Palisades and watched through his
telescope, George Washington gave way to strong emotions. As Washington Irving,
who claimed to have heard the story from eyewitnesses, later wrote, the defeat “was
said so completely to have overcome him that he wept with the tenderness of a
child.”19
An hour later the Hessian general, Baron Wilhelm von Knyphausen, called for
the surrender of the doomed fort. By four p.m., 2,837 soldiers, including 230 ofﬁcers,
emptied out and marched down a gauntlet of Hessian soldiers, who kicked and
punched them. Even some of the victors found the procession of shabby, unkempt
men a heartrending sight. “A great many of them were lads under ﬁfteen and old
men, and few had the appearance of soldiers,” wrote Lieutenant Frederick Mackenzie, who said that many colleagues guffawed at this sad mimicry of a professional
army.20 The American captives were dispatched to the grisly conﬁnement of British
prison ships in New York Harbor.
There was no way of putting a face-saving construction on this searing loss: it
was a defeat without redeeming features. As David McCullough has summarized
the debacle, “In a disastrous campaign for New York in which Washington’s army
had suffered one humiliating, costly reverse after another, this, the surrender of Fort
Washington on Saturday, November 16, was the most devastating blow of all, an utter catastrophe.”21 The outcome could only have deepened Washington’s nightmarish sense of helplessness. Just as he fretted about expiring enlistments, he had losses
of almost three thousand men killed or captured. At the same time, a huge cache of
valuable muskets and cannon had fallen into British hands.
The demise of Fort Washington could have scuttled the career of the distraught
Nathanael Greene. As he told Knox the next day, “Never did I need the consoling
voice of a friend more than now . . . This is a most terrible event; its consequences
are justly to be dreaded.”22 It is a remarkable commentary on Washington’s admiration for him that he didn’t scapegoat Greene or drum him out of the ranks.
Washington was honest enough to point out that his advice to Greene to evacuate
the fort had been “discretionary” and took a portion of the blame on himself.23 On
the other hand, he had granted this discretion because Greene was on the scene
and presumably better placed to form a judgment. Washington couldn’t account

An Indecisive Mind r! 2 63

for his own failure to reverse Greene’s decision once he had reviewed the situation
ﬁrsthand. Drawing on a thin pool of talented ofﬁcers, Washington was forced by
circumstance to tolerate a high rate of failure among his generals. A master politician in the making, he had a knack for spotting and rewarding faithful subordinates
who repaid his trust with absolute devotion. He seemed to know implicitly that no
loyalty surpassed that of a man forgiven for his faults who vowed never to make
them again.
By contrast, General Charles Lee tried to capitalize upon Washington’s tremendous stumble at Fort Washington. He claimed that, enraged upon hearing the news,
he tore out a patch of his hair. “The ingenious maneuver of Fort Washington has
unhinged the goodly fabric we have been building,” he wrote to General Horatio
Gates. “There never was so damned a stroke. Entre nous, a certain great man is
damnably deﬁcient.”24 He tried to undermine Washington further by informing
Congressman Benjamin Rush that “I foresaw, predicted, all that has happened . . .
had I the powers I could do you much good . . . but I am sure you will never give
any man the necessary powers.”25 To Washington himself, Lee wrote more tactfully.
“Oh, General, why would you be over-persuaded by men of inferior judgment to
your own?”26
Even more bad news hung in the ofﬁng. On the morning of November 20 word
reached Washington in Hackensack that thousands of enemy soldiers, camouﬂaged
by a dark, rainy night, had crossed the Hudson River in a daring raid, landing six
miles above Fort Lee. They had nimbly scaled the Palisades, a solid wall of rock
and dense greenery, and now marched toward Fort Lee in great numbers. After
the fall of Fort Washington, Fort Lee had shed its strategic importance, since it
was impossible to thwart British ships from only one side of the Hudson. Having
seen the importance of reacting quickly to threats, Washington raced on horseback
to Fort Lee, covering six miles in forty-ﬁve minutes. Once at the fort, he ordered
an immediate evacuation of its two thousand men, sacriﬁcing the bulk of supplies on hand—two hundred cannon, hundreds of tents, and thousands of barrels
of ﬂour. The retreating Americans made it across the single bridge spanning the
Hackensack River before it could be sabotaged by the enemy. The British cavalry
under Charles Cornwallis chose not to chase them. General Howe again wanted to
intimidate the rebels rather than to destroy them, and he overrode the judgment of
Henry Clinton, who wanted to outﬂank the insurgents and smother them for good.
The Crown seemed to side with Howe, decorating him as a Knight of the Bath, and
henceforth he was called Sir William Howe.
For Washington, it came as yet another in a never-ending series of setbacks, a
cascading series of colossal defeats. Finding it hard to resist total despair, he wrote,
“I am wearied almost to death with the retrograde motion of things.”27 Yet despite

2 64

r! The Gener a l

the calamities at Forts Washington and Lee, the British had done Washington an
inadvertent favor. They had shown him the futility of trying to defend heavily fortiﬁed positions along the seaboard and forced him out into the countryside, where he
had mobility and where the British Army, deprived of the Royal Navy, operated at
a disadvantage. For political reasons, Washington hadn’t been able to countermand
the congressional decision to defend New York City and the Hudson River, but now
that he had done so and suffered predictable defeats, he would have more freedom
to pick and choose his targets. With his drastically diminished army and depleted
supplies, it was no longer a question of standing and confronting the British with
their vastly superior troops and ﬁrepower.

Wa sh i ng t on a n d h is be dr ag g l e d t ro ops began a dreary retreat across
the ﬂat, open terrain of New Jersey, their recent humiliation fresh in their memories. The British gloated over their string of stunning victories, the young Lord
Rawdon boasting that the American army “is broken all to pieces, and the spirit of
their leaders . . . is also broken.” His smug verdict: “It is well nigh over with them.”28
The retreating army wore a defeated look as they shufﬂed slowly through villages.
“They marched two abreast,” said one inhabitant, “looked ragged, some without
a shoe to their feet, and most of them wrapped in their blankets.”29 Washington’s
sole concern was saving his army. He knew that his men were “very much broken
and dispirited,” and with many enlistments ending December 1, he anticipated a
catastrophic erosion of soldiers.30 On that date, as Washington feared, 2,000 militia
from New Jersey and Maryland drifted away, leaving him with only about 3,800
men in a state crawling with Tories. Around the same time Lord Howe issued a
proclamation offering pardons to those who swore allegiance to the king, and thousands of discouraged Americans took up the offer.
During the retreat Washington rode in the perilous rear position, supervising
the destruction of bridges to stall the enemy. “I saw him . . . at the head of a small
band, or rather in its rear, for he was always near the enemy, and his countenance
and manner made an impression on me which I can never efface,” wrote James
Monroe, then an eighteen-year-old lieutenant. “A deportment so ﬁrm, so digniﬁed, but yet so modest and composed, I have never seen in any other person.”31
Thomas Paine also praised the New Jersey retreat as one of Washington’s ﬁnest
hours of quiet courage. “There is a natural ﬁrmness in some minds which cannot
be unlocked by triﬂes, but which, when unlocked, discovers a cabinet of fortitude,” he wrote, saying that God had endowed Washington “with uninterrupted
health and given him a mind that can even ﬂourish upon care.”32 One of the few
bright spots occurred at the Raritan River near New Brunswick. On the afternoon

An Indecisive Mind r! 2 65

of December 1, British soldiers appeared and threatened to cut off American
troops as they crossed the river. Once again Captain Alexander Hamilton and his
artillery company provided steady cover to the retreating men, while an admiring
Washington observed his future aide and treasury secretary from the riverbank.
Washington’s career had few moments of misplaced trust, but one occurred
during this lonely, vulnerable time. He had conﬁded to Joseph Reed that he needed
someone with whom he could “live in unbounded conﬁdence” and Reed himself
had appeared to be that privileged person.33 In June Reed was named adjutant
general in order to retain him in Washington’s service. Unfortunately, Reed harbored growing doubts about Washington’s ability—doubts only strengthened by
his boss’s failure to override Nathanael Greene at Fort Washington. Reed decided
to voice those doubts to Charles Lee, a man of atrocious judgment who was never
circumspect in covering his tracks.
On November 21 Washington sent an urgent, conﬁdential letter to Lee, exhorting him to bring his brigades from New York to help defend New Jersey, a task
beyond the scanty powers of his own shrinking force. He was particularly worried
that Howe might try to grab Philadelphia. In sending this letter, Joseph Reed had
the temerity to slip into the dispatch satchel a secret note of his own to Lee. This
blunt message suggested that Washington’s personal staff had lost faith in him and
viewed him as a vacillating leader. “I do not mean to ﬂatter nor praise you at the
expense of any other,” wrote Reed, “but I confess I do think that it is entirely owing
to you that this army and the liberties of America . . . are not totally cut off.” He
then delivered a damaging assessment of Washington: “Oh! General—an indecisive mind is one of the greatest misfortunes that can befall an army.” In an act of
outright treachery against Washington, Reed suggested to Lee that “as soon as the
season will admit, I think yourself and some others should go to Congress and form
the plan of the new army.”34
At the end of November, Washington was busily at work in New Brunswick when
he tore open a sealed letter that Charles Lee had sent to Reed, who was then conferring in Burlington with Governor William Livingston of New Jersey. The letter
shocked him on two accounts. The impertinent Lee revealed that he was disobeying
Washington’s order to bring his army to New Jersey and instead was sending two
thousand men assigned to General Heath, then protecting the Hudson Highlands.
In one line Lee echoed Reed’s secret letter, stating that he agreed with Reed about
“that fatal indecision of mind which in war is a much greater disqualiﬁcation than
stupidity or even want of personal courage; accident may put a decisive blunder in
the right, but eternal defeat and miscarriage must attend the man of the best parts
if cursed with indecision.”35 Washington realized that Lee was quoting Reed.
On November 30 Washington, deeply injured, penned a note to Joseph Reed

2 66

r! The Gener a l

that was a masterpiece of subtle accusation. He included a copy of Lee’s letter and
wrote:
Dear Sir: The enclosed was put into my hands by an express from the White Plains.
Having no idea of its being a private letter, much less suspecting the tendency of
the correspondence, I opened it, as I had done all other letters to you . . . upon the
business of your ofﬁce . . . This, as it is the truth, must be my excuse for seeing the
contents of a letter which neither inclination or intention would have prompted me
to. I thank you for the trouble and fatigue you have undergone in your journey to
Burlington and sincerely wish that your labors may be crowned with the desired success. My best respects to Mrs. Reed.36

Washington knew perfectly how to wield silence as a weapon. The letter was
conspicuous for what it omitted, not for what it said, allowing Reed to imagine
Washington’s wrath rather than experience it, leaving him in a torment of uncertainty. The refusal to berate Reed only shamed him more. By not fulminating against
Reed, Washington concealed what he knew about his machinations with Lee, a cunning device he employed many times in his career. And his response showed how
highly he regarded the gentlemanly code of honor. Before anything else, he wanted
to account for having opened and read the letter, lest it seem a wanton violation of
privacy. It was a mark of Washington’s psychological subtlety that he sent a note of
apology to a man who owed him an apology. Finally, by alluding to Reed’s taxing
journey and sending regards to Mrs. Reed, Washington stressed that he wouldn’t
stoop to anger in the face of provocation.
Upon receiving the letter, Reed tendered his resignation to Congress, but Washington got him to revoke it. Washington did not ask for a direct response to his
letter; nor did he request a talk. Instead he resumed a civil, if guarded, relationship
with Reed. The two exchanged many letters without referring to the episode, as
Washington waited for the younger man to broach the subject. On March 8, 1777,
Reed ﬁnally referred to the incident and told Washington that he had tried futilely
to retrieve his original letter to Charles Lee. Disingenuously, he said there was nothing in the letter “inconsistent with that respect and affection which I have and ever
shall bear to your person and character.”37 Reed made further efforts to repair the
relationship, but Washington didn’t bury the hatchet until June 11, 1777, when he
sent Reed a conciliatory letter. He wasn’t a man who rushed to forgive, but he didn’t
hold grudges either. He told Reed that it wasn’t the criticism of his behavior that
had stung him so much as the devious method: “True it is I felt myself hurt by a
certain letter, which appear[e]d at that time to be the echo of one from you . . . I
was hurt, not because I thought my judgment wrong[e]d by the expressions con-

An Indecisive Mind r! 2 6 7

tained in it, but because the same sentiments were not communicated immediately
to myself.” Washington signed the letter “Your obedient and affectionate” George
Washington.38
Washington never revealed to Lee his knowledge of the secret correspondence,
and Lee’s behavior toward Washington grew ever more imperious. Headquartered
in Peekskill, New York, he admitted to Washington in late November that he had
ignored his orders to proceed to New Jersey: “I cou[l]d wish you wou[l]d bind me
as little as possible . . . from a persuasion that detach[e]d generals cannot have too
great latitude.”39 Instead of sternly reprimanding Lee, Washington entreated him
to bring his ﬁve thousand men to New Jersey, but Lee kept ignoring his requests in
an infuriatingly cavalier manner. Washington at last had no choice but to lead his
dwindling army across the Delaware River into Pennsylvania. He also began a lowkey campaign to discredit Lee in the eyes of Congress—his political style always
hinged on ﬁne gradations—telling John Hancock in early December, “I have not
heard a word from General Lee since the 26th last month, which surprises me not
a little, as I have dispatched daily expresses to him desiring to know when I might
look for him.”40 At last Lee and his men crossed the Hudson and began moving
south through New Jersey, albeit at a glacial speed.
On the morning of December 13, General Charles Lee received a well-merited
rebuke to his overweening vanity. He had spent the night at an inn near Basking
Ridge, New Jersey, enjoying the company of a woman of easy virtue. In an elementary error, he chose a spot for this tryst three miles from the safety of his army. Colonel William Harcourt, a British cavalry ofﬁcer heading a team of seventy British
dragoons, learned of Lee’s whereabouts from local Tories and surrounded the inn.
Lee had just composed his acerbic letter about Washington to General Gates when
he spied British horsemen outside the window and gasped, “For God’s sake, what
shall I do?”41 The widow who owned the inn tried to conceal Lee above a ﬁreplace as
bullets ripped through the windows. After twenty-two-year-old Banastre Tarleton,
later known for bloodthirsty tactics in the South, threatened to burn down the inn,
Lee surrendered in slippers and a ﬁlthy shirt to the derisory cheers of his captors
and a mocking trumpet blast. To make his degradation complete, the British didn’t
allow him to don a coat or a hat in the wintry weather. After all of his abrasive
lectures to Washington, Charles Lee hadn’t known how to protect himself, and his
embarrassing capture proved the punch line of a grim joke. He would spend sixteen
months in British captivity.
Whatever his misgivings about Charles Lee, Washington had no time for
schadenfreude and could only regret the loss of an experienced general. It angered
him that the capture was “the effect of folly and imprudence,” as he privately told
his brother Samuel, but he was in no mood for settling old scores.42 Perhaps one

2 68

r! The Gener a l

side of him was relieved at the removal of a long-standing irritant. “I feel much for
his misfortune,” Washington wrote to a Massachusetts legislator, “and am sensible
that in his captivity, our country has lost a warm friend and an able ofﬁcer.”43 One
again marvels at Washington’s perfect pitch. He may sometimes have been indecisive as a military leader, as Joseph Reed had alleged, but he always displayed consummate skills as a politician.

ch ap ter t w ent y-thr ee

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

T he Crossing

Wa sh i ngt on wa s no t su r pr ise d that thousands of New Jersey residents
rushed to take the loyalty oath offered by the British and scrapped the cause of independence as a foolish pipe dream. Expecting a hefty inﬂux of New Jersey militia,
he had entertained hopes of making a brave stand against the British at Hackensack
or New Brunswick. “But in this I was cruelly disappointed,” he informed Connecticut governor Jonathan Trumbull. “The inhabitants of this state, either from fear or
disaffection, almost to a man, refused to turn out.”1 He was down to a beleaguered
rump army, a raggedy band of a few thousand men. During the trek across New Jersey, they had worn out their shoes and crafted makeshift footwear by slaughtering
cattle, skinning their hides, and wrapping crude sections around their bare feet.
It took ﬁve days for the disheveled, footsore Americans to cross the Delaware
River into Pennsylvania near Trenton, a rearguard action designed to protect nearby
Philadelphia. Eager to conduct his army to safety, Washington kindled large bonﬁres onshore, so that boats could ply the waters through the night; he later recalled
this anxious time as one of “trembling for the fate of America.”2 His heart sank as
he watched his men, supposed saviors of the country, acting like “a destructive,
expensive, disorderly mob.”3 One observant spectator of the crossing was Charles
Willson Peale, who had painted a younger and happier Washington and now served
with the Pennsylvania militia. Studying this “grand but dreadful” sight, Peale noted
the hazardous drudgery of ferrying horses and heavy artillery across the water.4
He characterized the spectacle as “the most hellish scene I ever beheld” and left an
unforgettable anecdote to illustrate the sorry state of the begrimed troops. As Continental soldiers ﬁled past him, “a man staggered out of line and came toward me.

270

r! The Gener a l

He had lost all his clothes. He was in an old dirty blanket jacket, his beard long and
his face full of sores . . . which so disﬁgured him that he was not known by me on
ﬁrst sight. Only when he spoke did I recognize my brother James.”5
Acting with dispatch, Washington had his men scour the Delaware for sixty
miles and commandeer or destroy any boats that might tumble into British hands.
For future use, he had all sturdy boats secreted in nearby creeks or sheltered by
islands in the river, laying special stress on the Durham boats, bargelike craft, some
sixty feet in length, that ordinarily carried iron ore and other freight. These black
boats, outﬁtted with two masts and sails, could be steered in inclement weather by
huge eighteen-foot oars or pushed along by long poles —a feature that would make
them a godsend on a snowy night a few weeks later. Washington also posted guards
along the river to bar the passage not just of British soldiers but of any Pennsylvanians who might smuggle vital information to the enemy.
On December 8 General Howe and his army arrived in Trenton and exchanged
ﬁre with American troops on the Delaware. With twelve thousand men, Howe was
tempted to snatch Philadelphia but, in true aristocratic style, he preferred to make
a gentlemanly retreat for the winter to the softer haunts of New York City. To fortify
Trenton, he left three Hessian regiments under Colonel Johann Gottlieb Rall. Howe
was feeling, with good reason, that the tide had turned decisively in his favor, the
British having reasserted their sway over three former colonies: New York, New
Jersey, and Rhode Island. Panic had gripped Philadelphia, prompting many townspeople to padlock their homes and ﬂee. On December 13 Congress abandoned the
now-indefensible city and decamped to Baltimore.
To Washington’s credit, instead of simply dwelling on the misery of his situation, he spied a possible opportunity in British complacency. A cold snap in midDecember fostered fears that the Delaware might freeze over, inviting the British to
cross and attack. To forestall any prospect of Howe snatching Philadelphia and as
a tonic to his dejected compatriots, Washington began to think creatively. He was
now endowed with the clarity of despair, which unleashed his more aggressive instincts and opened his mind to unorthodox tactics. On December 14 he predicted
to Governor Trumbull that a “lucky blow” against the British would “most certainly
rouse the spirits of the people, which are quite sunk by our misfortunes.”6 He was
awakening from the mental torpor that had shadowed his footsteps since the Long
Island disaster. With fresh plans stirring in his brain, he ordered Horatio Gates to
bring his regiments, now encamped in northern New Jersey, across the Delaware.
So many enlistments were set to elapse by year’s end that it set an effective deadline for offensive action. Washington believed that British units, scattered along the
New Jersey side of the Delaware, were “hovering” like vultures, waiting to swoop
down after New Year’s Day. Unless every nerve was “strained to recruit the new

The Crossing r! 27 1

army with all possible expedition,” Washington warned his brother Samuel, “I think
the game is pretty near up.”7 He was more concerned by the accelerating decay of
patriotic support than by Howe’s overwhelming military strength. Adding further
pressure for quick attention-getting action was the extreme disarray of American
ﬁnances. “We are all of opinion, my dear General,” Joseph Reed told him, “that
something must be attempted to revive our expiring credit, give our cause some
degree of reputation, and prevent a total depreciation of the continental money.”8
Sensitive to public opinion, Washington knew that he had to act fast and he often
seemed abstracted. “I saw him in that gloomy period,” recalled one ofﬁcer, “dined with
him and attentively marked his aspect; always grave and thoughtful, he appeared at
that time pensive and solemn in the extreme.”9 By December 22 Washington’s army
had been bolstered by regiments that had previously marched under Charles Lee
and Horatio Gates, as well as some new militia units, boosting its strength to more
than 7,600 men. Because of short enlistments, Washington had ten days to strike a
mortal blow against the British; otherwise his troops would vanish into the woods.
When Trenton residents reported to the Hessians rumors of an impending rebel attack, the foreign soldiers seemed incredulous. “We did not have any idea of such a
thing,” said one Hessian, “and thought the rebels were unable to do so.”10
A timely spur to patriot spirits was the publication of a soul-stirring manifesto
by Thomas Paine, who had been amazed by the Continental soldiers’ pluck during
their dreary hundred-mile march across New Jersey. To honor the thirteen states,
he published thirteen essays in a collection entitled The Crisis. Scratched out by
candlelight and campﬁre, these essays appeared in pamphlet form on December
23, and Washington had them read aloud to small clusters of men up and down the
Delaware. The shivering listeners surely glowed with pride at the words: “These are
the times that try men’s souls. The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will,
in this crisis, shrink from the service of their country; but he that stands it now
deserves the love and thanks of man and woman.”11 Washington had befriended
the radical ﬁrebrand during the Jersey retreat, and Paine now celebrated his stoic
fortitude: “Voltaire has remarked that King William never appeared to full advantage but in difﬁculties and in action; the same remark may be made on General
Washington, for the character ﬁts him.”12
Washington and his generals decided to cross the Delaware on the night of
Christmas Day and pounce upon the Hessian garrison in Trenton an hour before
daylight as they slept off their holiday revels, gambling everything on one ﬁnal roll
of the dice. “For heaven’s sake, keep this to yourself,” Washington told Joseph Reed
on December 23, “as the discovery of it may prove fatal to us . . . dire necessity will—
nay must—justify any [attempt].”13 His men had braved hunger, fatigue, sickness,
and defeat from personal loyalty to him. On December 24 Colonel William Tudor

272

r! The Gener a l

explained to his ﬁancée in Boston why he stayed with the motley crew gathered on
the Delaware: “I cannot desert a man . . . who has deserted everything to defend his
country, and whose chief misfortune . . . is that a large part of it wants [i.e., lacks]
spirit to defend itself.”14 Crossing the Delaware, Washington knew, would produce
either storied success or utter calamity, and he seemed ready to pay the price. Dr.
Benjamin Rush encountered Washington during the tense evening before the operation. “While I was talking to him,” Rush recalled, “I observed him to play with his
pen and ink upon several small pieces of paper. One of them by accident fell upon
the ﬂoor near my feet. I was struck with the inscription upon it. It was ‘Victory or
Death.’ ” 15 Rush had glimpsed the password of the secret operation, which summed
up its desperate all-or-nothing quality.

O n t h e f r igi d C h r is t m a s Ev e of 17 7 6 Washington convened a dinner
meeting of ofﬁcers at the home of Samuel Merrick to plot their moves for the following night. In a group of inspired talkers, Washington was the peerless listener
and had developed excellent working relations with his generals. After the ﬁve-day
ordeal of crossing the Delaware into Pennsylvania, skeptics questioned whether the
entire army could be rowed across in a single night. The tightly structured plans left
little margin for error or slippage in the schedule. Reassurance came from Colonel John Glover, the maritime wizard behind the East River retreat, who reassured
the gathering “not to be troubled about that, as his boys could manage it.”16 The
grand strategy, orchestrated in minute detail, envisioned the main force of 2,400
men, along with Henry Knox and his artillery, crossing the Delaware at McConkey’s
Ferry, nine miles above Trenton. Once across the river, this force would split into
two columns: one marching under General Sullivan along a road hugging the river,
and the second farther inland, along the higher Pennington Road, to be guided by
Washington and Greene. These two columns would, in theory, rendezvous outside
Trenton. Meanwhile, farther downstream, 700 militia led by General James Ewing
would cross the river directly at Trenton, while 1,500 troops would cross at Bristol
under Colonel John Cadwalader. Some historians have faulted Washington for the
bafﬂing intricacy of this nocturnal operation, but as it turned out, it gave him four
separate chances to reach the Hessians at Trenton. Washington enjoyed the uniﬁed
support of his generals, except for Horatio Gates, who showed his true colors by
feigning sickness. While pleading that he was too sick to participate, he rode off to
Congress to try to undermine Washington’s plan, a transparent betrayal that Washington regarded with contempt.
·

·

·

The Crossing r! 27 3

Ch r ist m a s Day 17 76 dawned cold but sunny, then grew overcast by late afternoon as the soldiers, ignorant of their destination, began to ﬁle toward the river.
They paced more slowly than Washington had reckoned, their bare feet tracing
bloody streaks in the snow. Delays threatened the demanding timetable for the
crossing, which had to commence right after sundown. Once the men got across the
Delaware, they needed to tramp nine miles to Trenton in pitch darkness and arrive
by ﬁve a.m. Everything hinged on secrecy and faultless precision, and in his general
orders Washington demanded “profound silence” during the operation, warning
that no soldier was “to quit his ranks on the pain of death.”17
At sundown light rain began to fall. In advance of his men, Washington crossed
the river and staked out a place on the Jersey shore, the dangerous side of the river,
a vulnerable patch if news of the raid leaked out. With the future of the country riding on his shoulders, the Virginia planter displayed an indomitable tenacity. Quite
simply, if the raid backﬁred, the war was likely over and he would be captured and
killed. Washington, gathering up his courage, responded brilliantly to the challenge.
Legend depicts him shrouded in a cloak against the biting wind, sitting perched
on an empty beehive, barking orders at Henry Knox, who relayed his words to the
boatmen. Knox’s resonant voice bellowed throughout the night, and Major James
Wilkinson credited his “stentorian lungs” as essential to the operation.18
As always, Washington was the tutelary presence, never asking his men to take
risks he didn’t share. As chunks of ice traveled swiftly down the Delaware, the question arose whether it was possible to negotiate tricky currents under such dreadful
conditions. “Who will lead us?” Washington asked, and John Glover and his stouthearted ﬁshermen, aided by Philadelphia stevedores and local boatmen, promised
to rise to the occasion. As was often the case, Washington attained his greatest nobility at times of crisis. “His Excellency George Washington never appeared to so
much advantage as in the hour of distress,” wrote Greene.19
The night was darkened by a moon sheathed in clouds. As 2,400 men boarded
the Durham boats to begin their 800-foot journey across the river, they were tightly
wedged in: 40 standing men were sometimes squeezed into a single craft. The task
of transporting skittish horses and eighteen ﬁeld guns—nearly 400 tons of cumbersome artillery—on the Delaware ferries was a prodigious undertaking. The
elements delivered a bone-chilling mixture of rain, sleet, and wind that soaked everything. Around eleven p.m., as a grim northeaster began to churn up the waters,
snow and hail pelted men exposed in the boats—“a perfect hurricane,” in the words
of ﬁfer John Greenwood.20 Since most of the soldiers couldn’t swim, they must have
experienced sheer terror at the thought of their boats capsizing. Along the shores,
the river froze into such thick crusts that Washington said the “greatest fatigue”
came from “breaking a passage” through them.21 The storm signiﬁcantly retarded

274

r! The Gener a l

troop movements and heightened fears of arriving at Trenton after daybreak, jeopardizing the entire plan. But it also had the collateral advantage of muting sounds
from the river and blinding the enemy to the army’s advance. Despite the delays,
Washington made the momentous decision to proceed with the perilous mission,
which had taken on its own irresistible logic. As he later wrote, “I well knew we
could not reach it [Trenton] before day was fairly broke, but as I was certain there
was no making a retreat without being discovered, and harassed on repassing the
river, I determined to push on at all events.”22 It was brilliant daring, combined with
a large measure of outright desperation.
Even though the army was supposed to scoot across by midnight, the last boat
didn’t cross the river until three a.m. Not a single soldier died. On the Jersey shore,
Washington remained a study in quiet resolve and concentrated force. Not until
four a.m. was the assembled army ready to initiate its nine-mile march to Trenton.
Washington didn’t know that the other two sections of his invading force, slated to
traverse the river downstream at Trenton and Bristol, had been canceled due to an
inability to pierce icy masses in the river. Colonel Cadwalader, who couldn’t get his
artillery across, simply assumed that Washington had also aborted his plans on this
miserable night.
As the long column ﬁnally got under way in New Jersey, the road winding
through the woods was steep and treacherous, slippery to man and beast alike. The
slanting snow, sleet, and hail drove straight into the faces of men plunging forward in nearly total darkness. At least two exhausted soldiers tumbled into roadside
snowdrifts and froze to death. At a place called Jacob’s Creek, the soldiers had to
execute the risky maneuver of rolling artillery across a deep chasm. On horseback,
Washington was directing their movements when the hind legs of his horse buckled
and began to skid down the ice-covered slope. His men then saw the greatest horseman of his age perform an equestrian tour de force. Twining his ﬁngers through the
horse’s mane, Washington yanked its large head upright with all his might. At the
same time, he rocked and shifted his weight backward in his saddle until the horse
regained its equilibrium. The amazing feat happened in the blink of an eye, then the
artillery movement continued.
It proved an agonizing ride for Washington. His army was only halfway to
Trenton when the ﬁrst sunlight wanly colored the sky at six a.m. One soldier remembered Washington speaking “in a deep and solemn voice,” cautioning his men,
“Soldiers, keep by your ofﬁcers. For God’s sake, keep by your ofﬁcers.”23 Taking food
and drink on horseback in the thin dawn light, Washington held an impromptu
conference with his generals and they decided to proceed with their original plan,
splitting the column and heading on to Trenton by both high and low roads. With
his congenital penchant for punctuality, Washington pulled out his timepiece and

The Crossing r! 275

asked the generals to set their watches by it. Taking the upper Pennington Road with
Greene, Washington chose the more arduous route. As the parallel detachments
plodded on through a new wave of sleet and swirling snow, a messenger from Sullivan informed Washington that his men’s sodden weapons were now useless. “Tell
the general to use the bayonet,” Washington said.24 He then galloped along the lines,
trying to speed the march’s tempo in the brightening morning light. “Press on,” he
urged the men. “Press on, boys!”25
At around seven-thirty a.m., the operation was nearly derailed by a preposterous blunder committed by an old Washington colleague. General Adam Stephen
had fought with Washington in Braddock’s campaign and vied with him for a seat
in the House of Burgesses. The day before the Delaware crossing, he had dispatched
a company of Virginians to scout enemy positions in Trenton. Now, as he neared
the town, Washington was shocked to meet these ﬁfty Virginians and learn that
they had exchanged ﬁre with Hessian sentries, raising the appalling specter that the
Hessians had been alerted to the Continental Army’s advent. Under questioning,
Captain George Wallis told Washington they had acted under instructions from
Stephen. Washington summarily hauled the latter into his presence. “You, sir!”
Washington scolded him. “You, sir, may have ruined all my plans by having put
them on their guard.”26 Those present were amazed by the vivid show of temper,
but Washington soon regained his self-mastery and told the Virginians to fall in
with his column.
The mythology of the Battle of Trenton portrays the Hessian mercenaries as
slumbering in a drunken stupor after imbibing late-night Christmas cheer. In fact,
Colonel Johann Gottlieb Rall had kept his men on high alert, and they felt frazzled and exhausted from constant drills and patrols. Quite shrewdly, Washington
had worn them down by irregular raids and small skirmishes in the surrounding
countryside. If the Hessians were caught off guard that morning, it was only because they thought the forbidding weather would preclude an attack. These tough,
brawny hirelings, with a reputation for ferocity, inspired healthy fear among the
Americans. But handicapped by their patronizing view of the Americans, they
couldn’t conceive of something of quite the scale and daring that Washington attempted. “I must concede that on the whole we had a poor opinion of the rebels,
who previously had never successfully opposed us,” said Lieutenant Jakob Piel.27
Having received multiple warnings of the surprise attack, Rall was so certain of the
superiority of his men that he dismissed these reports with blithe bravado: “Let
them come.”28
As Washington approached Trenton, he was astounded by the valor of his men,
who had marched all night and were still eager to attack. Though a snowy tempest
still whirled around them, the squalls now blew at their backs as they raced forward

27 6

r! The Gener a l

at a brisk pace. Intent on exploiting the element of surprise, Washington wanted
his men to startle the Hessians. Emerging from the Trenton woods shortly after
eight a.m., he divided his wing of the army into three columns and spearheaded the
middle column himself, trotting forward in an exposed position. As his men surged
ahead, he reported to Hancock, they “seemed to vie with the other in pressing forward.”29 Washington heard artillery blasts exploding on the River Road, conﬁrming
that the two American wings had coordinated their arrival.
Trenton consisted of a hundred or so houses, long since deserted by their occupants. Knox’s cannon began to ﬁre with pinpoint accuracy down the two main
streets, King and Queen, with Alexander Hamilton again in the thick of the fray.
“The hurry, fright, and confusion of the enemy was [not] unlike that which will be
when the last trump shall sound,” said Knox, who forced the German gunners to
abandon their weapons and scatter to the southern end of town.30
Colonel Rall mobilized a group of men in an apple orchard, then tried to steer
a charge toward Washington. Responding to this move, Washington adroitly positioned his men on high ground nearby. As John Greenwood recalled, “General
Washington, on horseback and alone, came up to our major and said, ‘March
on, my brave fellows, after me!’ and rode off.”31 Washington’s quick-witted action
stopped the Hessian advance in its tracks. Colonel Rall, who was riddled with bullets, “reeled in the saddle” before being rescued from his horse and carried to a
church. Washington conversed with the dying Rall and ordered that all Hessian
prisoners be treated honorably. When he learned from Major James Wilkinson of
the surrender of the last regiment, he beamed with quiet pleasure. “Major Wilkinson,” he replied, shaking his hand, “this is a glorious day for our country.”32 Since he
had crafted the strategy and led his men to glory, the stunning victory belonged to
Washington lock, stock, and barrel.
The American triumph was accomplished in less than an hour.“It may be doubted,”
wrote George Trevelyan, “whether so small a number of men ever employed so short
a space of time with greater and more lasting effects upon the history of the world.”33
The battle toll was a bloody one for the Hessians: 22 killed, 84 wounded, and nearly
900 captured (500 escaped to safety) versus only 2 American deaths in combat plus
another 4 or 5 from exposure to cold. A huge bonanza of muskets, bayonets, cannon,
and swords fell into American hands. The patriots also took possession of forty hogsheads of rum. Trying to enforce sobriety, Washington ordered the rum spilled on the
ground, but many men, unable to resist the comfort of warming liquor, grew wildly
intoxicated. The patriotic myth about Trenton inverts the reality: it wasn’t the Hessians who were inebriated before the battle, but the patriots afterward.
Mindful of the frigid weather and the wobbly state of the drunken troops, Washington and his ofﬁcers decided to hasten back to the Pennsylvania side of the Dela-

The Crossing r! 27 7

ware, an operation complicated by the need to shepherd Hessian prisoners as well.
The proud but weather-beaten army had endured a sixty-hour marathon of frostbite,
disease, and exhaustion and needed rest. In his general orders for December 27, Washington thanked his men with unstinting fervor, banishing all traces of the snobbery he
once felt toward them: “The General, with the utmost sincerity and affection, thanks
the ofﬁcers and soldiers for their spirited and gallant behavior at Trenton yesterday.”34
The army had harvested a trove of Hessian trophies, ranging from guns to horses, and
Washington had the cash value of these spoils distributed proportionately among his
soldiers. Even though some had gotten roaring drunk at Trenton, Washington relaxed
his usual practice and had more rum ladled out to his thirsty men.
In truth, Washington had little time to rejoice after this bravura performance.
Now headquartered in the “old yellow house” of widow Hannah Harris, he convened
a war council on December 27 at which the generals digested a startling piece of news:
that morning, Colonel Cadwalader had belatedly crossed the Delaware with eighteen
hundred militiamen, hoping to mount a second New Jersey offensive. The generals
grappled with a tough predicament. They voiced doubts about recrossing the Delaware and tempting fate again, but they were loath to strand Cadwalader and wanted
to prove that the ﬁrst crossing hadn’t been a ﬂuke. A consensus slowly took shape to
strike again at Trenton. “It was a remarkable and very instructive success for Washington’s maturing style of quiet, consultative leadership,” notes David Hackett Fischer.35
The Trenton victory had wrought a wondrous transformation; the deliberations of
Washington and his generals were now informed by a newfound conﬁdence.
On December 28, amid thickening snow ﬂurries, Washington ordered militia
units in northern New Jersey to stymie the enemy and “harass their ﬂanks and
rear.”36 Then on December 29 he set in motion the enormous gamble ratiﬁed by his
generals, sending his men back across to Trenton. This second crossing, even more
ambitious than the ﬁrst, encompassed eight crossing points and twice as many cannon. A fresh sheet of ice impeded the boats and retarded the operation. Washington
himself didn’t cross the Delaware until December 30, when he stationed his men on
a secure slope behind Assunpink Creek, a narrow, fast-moving creek at the southern end of Trenton. This entrenched position posed more formidable risks than the
swift hit-and-run raid launched on Christmas Night.
The ﬁrst Delaware crossing had afforded graphic proof of the advantages of
speed and ﬂexibility in improvising military operations. With many enlistments
about to expire, General Greene had lobbied Congress to give Washington additional powers while “reserving to yourself the right of conﬁrming or repealing the
measures.”37 Greene insisted that Washington would never abuse a wide-ranging
new grant of authority. “There never was a man that might be more safely trusted,”
he asserted.38 On December 27 a once-carping, meddlesome Congress granted ex-

27 8

r! The Gener a l

traordinary powers to Washington for six months, allowing him to muster new
troops by paying bounties, to commandeer provisions, and even to arrest vendors
who didn’t accept Continental currency. These powers, breathtaking in scope,
aroused fears of a despot in the making—fears that Washington quickly laid to rest.
He understood that liberties should be afﬁrmed even as they were being temporarily abridged, and he planned to set aside emergency powers the instant they were no
longer needed. As he informed Congress, “I shall constantly bear in mind that, as
the sword was the last resort for the preservation of our liberties, so it ought to be
the ﬁrst thing laid aside when those liberties are ﬁrmly established.”39 In this manner, Washington strengthened civilian authority over the military.
The immediate task at hand was to persuade men to linger whose enlistments
expired on New Year’s Day. By bringing his soldiers to Trenton, Washington made
it more difﬁcult for them to decamp, and he mustered all his hortatory powers to
retain them. On December 30 he had a recalcitrant New England regiment lined
up before him. Sitting erect on his horse, he made an impassioned appeal, asking
them to extend their service by six weeks and offering them a ten-dollar bounty.
As one sergeant recalled, Washington “told us our services were greatly needed and
that we could do more for our country than we ever could at any future date and in
the most affectionate manner entreated us to stay.”40 The word that leaps out here
is affectionate. Here was George Washington, patriarch of Mount Vernon, addressing farmers, shoemakers, weavers, and carpenters as intimate comrades-in-arms.
A year earlier this hypercritical man had frowned on these soldiers as an unsavory
rabble; now he lavished them with praise. When Jacky Custis told him of squawking in Virginia about New England troops, Washington took umbrage: “I do not believe that any of the states produce better men, or persons capable of making better
soldiers.”41 Though he still believed in hierarchical distinctions, especially between
ofﬁcers and their men, the war was molding him into a far more egalitarian ﬁgure.
When drums rumbled out a roll call for volunteers, nobody at ﬁrst stepped
forward. One vocal soldier piped up and spoke of their shared sacriﬁces, how much
they had dreamed of heading home. Pulling up his horse, Washington wheeled
about and rode along the entire line of men. With his reserved manner and austere
code of conduct, he didn’t frequently voice his feelings, only making it more impressive when he did so. “My brave fellows,” he said, “you have done all I asked you
to do and more than could be reasonably expected. But your country is at stake,
your wives, your houses, and all that you hold dear . . . If you will consent to stay
one month longer, you will render that service to the cause of liberty and to your
country which you probably can never do under any other circumstances.”42
As the drums resumed beating, the soldiers huddled and conferred among
themselves. One was overheard to say, “I will remain if you will,” while another told

The Crossing r! 2 7 9

his fellows that “we cannot go home under such circumstances.”43 A small knot of
men stepped forward grudgingly, prompting several more to do so; ﬁnally all two
hundred joined in. For Washington, the war had become a constant game of highstakes improvisation, played out under extreme duress. For these two hundred men,
the extra six weeks entailed no small commitment: half would perish from combat
wounds or illness. The same scene was soon reenacted with other regiments as
Washington, showing dramatic ﬂair and plainspoken eloquence, held on to more
than three thousand men. In another inspired gesture, he told subordinates that the
men who agreed to stay didn’t need to be formally enrolled but would be trusted to
make good on their verbal pledges. He was treating them not as commoners, but as
tried-and-true gentlemen.
To ferret out enemy intentions, Washington sent a cavalry patrol to reconnoiter
around Princeton. Several captured British dragoons revealed that the British had
amassed eight thousand men at Princeton and were girding themselves under General Cornwallis to attack Washington at Trenton. As this second Battle of Trenton
loomed, the humiliated Hessians were in an especially vengeful mood, and their
leader, Colonel von Donop, decreed a bloodthirsty policy of taking no prisoners.
Toward sundown at Trenton on January 2, 1777, Washington spotted the vanguard of Cornwallis, who had brought an army of 5,500 men. Washington arrayed
his men on the slope behind Assunpink Creek in three horizontal bands, covering
the entire hillside. As Hessian troops hurtled down King and Queen streets, American snipers ﬁred at them. An advance force of Continental soldiers waded back
across the rain-swollen creek while others fell back across the stone bridge. When
it looked momentarily as if the retreating Americans would be hacked to death by
Hessian bayonets, Washington swung into action. Sitting astride his horse at the far
end of the bridge, he mobilized his men. Evidently he not only looked but felt like
a godlike image of solidity; soldiers who bumped against him couldn’t shake his
granite poise. Private John Howland left this evocative portrait:
The noble horse of Gen. Washington stood with his breast pressed close against the
end of the west rail of the bridge, and the ﬁrm, composed, and majestic countenance
of the general inspired conﬁdence and assurance in a moment so important and
critical. In this passage across the bridge, it was my fortune to be next [to] the west
rail, and arriving at the end of the bridge rail, I was pressed against the shoulder of
the general’s horse and in contact with the general’s boot. The horse stood as ﬁrm
as the rider and seemed to understand that he was not to quit his post and station.44

This preternatural composure, coming in the heat of battle, made Washington a
living presence to his men.

280

r! The Gener a l

The British made three courageous attempts to take the bridge, and each time
American artillery repulsed them, strewing many cadavers in their wake. “The
bridge looked red as blood,” wrote Sergeant Joseph White, “with their killed and
wounded and red coats.”45 Several hundred British and Hessian soldiers died in
vain attempts to storm the American positions. Nevertheless, the patriots were
heavily outnumbered by Cornwallis’s army and had no clear escape strategy. In the
dying light of a winter day, Cornwallis and his ofﬁcers conferred about whether
to postpone the main attack. “If Washington is the general I take him to be,” Sir
William Erskine said, “he will not be found in the morning.” An overly conﬁdent
Cornwallis disputed this assertion. “We’ve got the old fox safe now,” he supposedly
said. “We’ll go over and bag him in the morning.”46
Washington worried that his men might be encircled by the superior British force—
they were cooped up like a ﬂock of chickens, in Henry Knox’s colorful phrase—and
knew that any retreat across a Delaware River chock-full of ice ﬂoes could be costly.
Convening his generals on this frosty night, he stated that the loss of the corps he commanded “might be fatal to the country,” and, under these circumstances, he asked for
advice.47 Once again a single misstep could be devastating. The war council decided to
have the army slip away during the night, much as it had disappeared across the East
River. Still better, it would convert a defensive move into an offensive measure, circling
around the left ﬂank of Cornwallis’s army and heading north along unfrequented back
roads to confront the British at Princeton. Washington again hid a political strategy
behind his military strategy. “One thing I was sure of,” he remarked afterward, was
“that it would avoid the appearance of a retreat, which was of consequence.”48 This
supremely risky strategy meant penetrating deep into enemy territory and possibly
being entrapped. Nevertheless, Washington and his generals, who now operated with
exceptional cohesion, embraced the course unanimously.
To camouﬂage the nighttime retreat, which would start after midnight, Washington reprised the same repertoire of tricks he had applied on Long Island. The
wheels of the artillery were wrapped in rags to deaden sounds. Campﬁres were kept
burning to foster the illusion of an army settled in for the night. Loud noises were
broadcast with entrenching tools, as if the Americans were digging in for violent
reprisals the next day. Again the troops were kept unaware of their destination. In
fact, Washington stole away with such artful stealth, wrote one ofﬁcer, that “the
rear guard and many of his own sentinels never missed him.”49 In marching twelve
miles through the night toward Princeton, Washington pushed his long-suffering
men almost beyond human endurance. It was a long, harrowing march down dark
country lanes congealed with ice. The weary men, wrapped in a numb trance, some
barely awake, padded against stinging winds; many fell asleep standing up whenever the column halted.

The Crossing r! 2 81

The troops arrived at the college town later than scheduled, shortly after an
exceptionally clear, beautiful dawn that James Wilkinson remembered as “bright,
serene, and extremely cold, with a hoarfrost that bespangled every object.”50 The
men rapidly repaired a bridge over Stony Brook, south of town, before the army
divided into two groups: Sullivan’s division veered northeast while Greene’s moved
due north. The ﬁrst spirited ﬁghting erupted unexpectedly. Lieutenant Colonel
Charles Mawhood was about to rush two British regiments to Trenton to aid Cornwallis when, to his inﬁnite surprise, he encountered American forces under General
Hugh Mercer in a broad, rolling meadow. “I believe they were as much astonished
as if an army had dropped perpendicularly upon them,” declared Knox.51 Mawhood
ordered a ferocious bayonet charge that staggered Mercer’s men. Mercer himself
was knocked off his horse and given a merciless drubbing as he lay on the ground.
In capturing the dapper, handsome Mercer—a physician from Fredericksburg and
a friend of Washington’s—the British imagined they had taken the commander in
chief himself. “Call for quarters, you damned rebel,” they taunted him. To which
Mercer retorted, “I am no rebel,” and slashed at them with his sword. 52 The British
mauled him repeatedly with their bayonets, carving seven gashes, until he lay near
death. For Washington, it was a disturbing preview of the fate awaiting him if ever
he were captured.
The Battle of Princeton gave Washington another chance to show that he was
the army’s chief warrior in the antique sense. The eighteenth-century battleﬁeld
was a compact space, its cramped contours deﬁned by the short range of muskets
and bayonet charges, giving generals a chance to inspire by their immediate presence. When Mercer’s men began to retreat, harried by redcoats ﬂashing bayonets,
General Greene directed Pennsylvania militia into the fray, only to have them collide with Mercer’s ﬂeeing men amid “a shower of grapeshot.”53 The American panic
was stemmed by Washington himself, who suddenly circled into view and exhorted
his rattled men to stand and ﬁght. “Parade with us, my brave fellows!” he exclaimed,
waving his hat. “There is but a handful of the enemy, and we will have them directly.”54 According to his aide-de-camp Colonel John Fitzgerald, Washington rallied the men with an act of unbelievable bravery: he reined in his horse, faced the
enemy directly, and simply froze. Yet again the intrepid Washington acted as if he
were protected by an invisible aura.
With the British entrenched beyond a hillside fence, Washington lengthened
and strengthened the patriot line, instructing his men not to ﬁre until told to do
so. He exhibited exceptional sangfroid as he rode along the line. Then he personally
led the charge up the hill, halting only when they had pushed within thirty yards of
their adversaries. As he issued the command to ﬁre, Washington, on his white charger, was such a conspicuous target that Fitzgerald clapped his hat over his eyes be-

2 82

r! The Gener a l

cause he couldn’t bear to see him shot. When the fusillade of bullets ended and the
enemy scattered, Fitzgerald ﬁnally peeked and saw Washington, untouched, sitting
proudly atop his horse, wreathed by eddying smoke. “Thank God, your Excellency
is safe!” Fitzgerald said to him, almost weeping with relief. Washington, unfazed,
took his hand fondly. “Away, my dear colonel, and bring up the troops. The day is
our own!”55 Fitzgerald wasn’t the only one bowled over by Washington’s coolness.
“I shall never forget what I felt . . . when I saw him brave all the dangers of the ﬁeld
and his important life hanging as it were by a single hair with a thousand deaths
ﬂying around him,” wrote a young Philadelphia ofﬁcer. “Believe me, I thought not
of myself.”56
Washington spurred his horse after the retreating enemy, for once giving way
to pure exhilaration. Perhaps repaying the old insult from the Battle of Harlem
Heights, he shouted to his men, “It’s a ﬁne fox chase, my boys!”57 Whatever joy
he felt, however, was tempered by the horrifying spectacle of a snowy battleﬁeld
stained with American blood. One ofﬁcer lay “rolling and writhing in his blood,
unconscious of anything around him.”58 An adolescent lieutenant had a bullet hole
in his chest and a skull smashed in by a bayonet. And so on.
In the battle’s concluding chapter, two hundred British troops sought asylum in
the principal college building, Nassau Hall. According to legend, Alexander Hamilton deployed his artillery against the building and decapitated a portrait of King
George II with a cannonball. By the time a white ﬂag of surrender popped from a
window, the victorious Americans had inﬂicted more than ﬁve hundred casualties
and taken between two hundred and three hundred prisoners; only about three
dozen Americans were killed in the one-sided battle. To Washington’s dismay, his
soldiers, avid for booty, ransacked Nassau Hall and dragged out food, clothing, furniture, and even paintings. They also ﬂeeced uniforms from British corpses on the
battleﬁeld. To stop this plunder, Washington had the ﬁeld cordoned off by sentries.
He also accompanied two wounded redcoats to private homes, where American
surgeons treated them and performed amputations. In his humane treatment of
prisoners, Washington wanted to make a major statement, telling one ofﬁcer that
British captives should “have no reason to complain of our copying the brutal example of the British army in their treatment of our unfortunate brethren.”59
The consecutive victories at Trenton and Princeton resurrected American spirits, especially since the Continental Army had scored an undisputed victory over
British regulars. The psychology of the war was dramatically reversed, with the
once-dominant British presence in New Jersey “reduced to the compass of a very
few miles,” in Washington’s view.60 By rolling back British gains, he undercut the
Crown’s new strategy of securing territory and handing out pardons. Nathanael
Greene estimated that the Americans had killed or captured up to three thousand

The Crossing r! 2 83

enemy soldiers in a two-week stretch. Although Washington wanted to proceed to
New Brunswick and raid a major storehouse of British supplies, his men hadn’t
slept for two days, and he didn’t believe he could press them further.
The back-to-back victories had also changed the calculus of the war. Henceforth
the British would have to conquer the colonists, not simply cow them into submission. The Americans, having bounced back from near despair, now showed an
irrepressible esprit de corps. “A few days ago, they had given up the cause for lost,”
scoffed the Loyalist Nicholas Cresswell. “Their late successes have turned the scale
and now they are all liberty mad again.”61 “Four weeks ago, we expected to end the
war with the capture of Philadelphia,” said the Hessian captain Johann Ewald, “and
now we had to render Washington the honor of thinking about our defense.”62
The consecutive battles exalted George Washington to a new pinnacle of renown. He had taken the demoralized men who shufﬂed wearily across New Jersey
and shaped them into valiant heroes. Through the many newspaper accounts, these
events passed directly into American legend. “Had he lived in the days of idolatry,”
said a rhapsodic piece in the Pennsylvania Journal, Washington would have “been
worshiped as a god.”63 The battle’s repercussions were worldwide, overturning the
presumption that amateur volunteers could never defeat a well-trained European
army. Even Frederick the Great added his congratulations: “The achievements of
Washington and his little band of compatriots between the 25th of December and
the 4th of January, a space of 10 days, were the most brilliant of any recorded in the
annals of military achievements.”64
For all the many virtues he had shown in his life, nothing quite foreshadowed
the wisdom, courage, fortitude, and resolution that George Washington had just exhibited. Adversity had brought his best traits to the surface and even ennobled him.
Sensing it, Abigail Adams told her friend Mercy Otis Warren, “I am apt to think that
our later misfortunes have called out the hidden excellencies of our commanderin-chief.” She quoted a line from the English poet Edward Young: “ ‘Afﬂiction is the
good man’s shining time.’ ”65 One consistent thread from his earlier life had preﬁgured these events: Washington’s tenacity of purpose, his singular ability to stalk a
goal with all the resources at his disposal.
Another stalwart admirer of Washington was Charles Willson Peale. In 1779 the
Supreme Executive Council of Philadelphia commissioned him to execute a fulllength portrait of Washington to commemorate his Princeton triumph. Washington sat for the portrait over a two-week period, and the result was an inspiring
work of easy, graceful lines. A debonair Washington stands with Nassau Hall in the
background and a Hessian standard unfurled at his feet. His blue jacket with gold
epaulettes opens to reveal a pale blue sash curving across his paunch. He holds one
arm akimbo, the other resting on the barrel of a cannon. At the height of his power,

2 84

r! The Gener a l

Washington stands tall and imposing in high black boots with gold-colored spurs;
the left foot is elegantly drawn back, resting on its toes. The portrait breathes a
manly swagger, an air of high-ﬂown accomplishment. All traces of provincial tentativeness and uncertainty have disappeared from Washington’s personality. This
was the magnetic Washington that so enthralled his contemporaries, not the stiff,
craggy ﬁgure made familiar to later generations by Gilbert Stuart.
Washington didn’t pause to savor his victory at Princeton. Once Cornwallis
awoke and discovered the American ruse, he rushed toward Princeton at a maddening, helter-skelter pace “in a most infernal sweat, running, pufﬁng and blowing
and swearing at being so outwitted,” laughed Henry Knox.66 The British arrived an
hour after the Continental Army had deserted the town. Washington put his dazed,
depleted men through the paces of another ﬁfteen-mile march north to Somerset
Court House. They arrived there after sundown and, exhausted, instantly fell asleep
on any available bed of straw they could ﬁnd.

ch ap ter t w ent y-four

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

T he Busy Scenes of a Camp

For a l l t h e i l lus t r ious f e at s that Washington’s soldiers performed at
Trenton and Princeton, they were weary from their epic labors, and the euphoria
of their victory was short-lived. The heroism of the patriot army, though quite real,
would prove sporadic throughout the war, so that Washington’s own constancy became necessary to sustain the Revolution. Notwithstanding the bounties they had
pocketed, men kept vanishing into the woods every day, and Washington griped
that he headed an army that was “here today, gone tomorrow, without assigning a
reason or even apprising you of it.”1 To ﬂesh out sixteen new regiments, he had to
offer twenty-dollar bounties, one hundred acres of land, and a new suit of clothes
to anyone older than seventeen but younger than ﬁfty.
Washington remained frustrated with congressional reluctance to confer on
him the power to appoint his own general ofﬁcers. Some of the political resistance
sprang from fear of arbitrary power, but it also testiﬁed to envy festering below
the hero worship, a petulant undercurrent that would persist for the rest of Washington’s career. Speaking of Washington, John Adams lectured his congressional
colleagues not “to idolize an image which their own hands have molten.” Adams
thought Washington already had too much power: “It becomes us to attend early to
the restraining [of] our army.”2
After Princeton, an exhausted Washington took his shrunken army into winter
headquarters in Morristown, New Jersey, instead of retreating back into Pennsylvania. This inspired decision enabled him to harass British supply lines and to expel
the enemy from many parts of New Jersey. Nonetheless the decision carried grave
risks. Washington was now perilously short of men, and as he admitted years later,

2 86

r! The Gener a l

the British could easily have vanquished this thinly guarded camp, “if they had only
thought proper to march against us.”3 A small incident shows that he didn’t wish
to jinx his recent run of victories through any precipitate action. On January 8 he
thanked the Pennsylvania Council of Safety for “your notice of the eclipse of the
sun which is to happen tomorrow. This event, without a previous knowledge, might
affect the minds of the soldiery.”4 In an age alive to portents, Washington feared that
his soldiers might interpret a solar eclipse as a sign of providential displeasure.
Twenty-ﬁve miles west of New York City, ringed by protective hills, Morristown
was rich in farms that could feed famished troops and provide a snug winter retreat.
For his headquarters, Washington chose a building on the village green that once
served as a tavern. He enjoyed a frugal life, compared to the sumptuous balls that
General Howe was throwing for his ofﬁcers in Manhattan. Once the hubbub of battle subsided, Washington longed for Martha’s company and was starved for news
of home. For months he had discontinued correspondence with friends and family
in Virginia, “ﬁnding it incompatible with my public business,” as he told Robert
Morris. “A letter or two from my family are regularly sent by the post, but very irregularly received, which is rather mortifying, as it deprives me of the consolation
of hearing from home on domestic matters.”5 With his emotional life still rooted in
Mount Vernon and the war now threatening to drag on interminably, he contended
that nobody “suffers more by an absence from home than myself.”6 Martha, unable
to travel across a snowbound landscape, wouldn’t arrive until nearly spring.
The commander in chief had no respite from the crisis atmosphere that had
shadowed him for months. Conditions were so appalling in patriot hospitals that
one doctor remembered having seen “from four to ﬁve patients die on the same
straw before it was changed.”7 When smallpox appeared in his camp, Washington
feared a calamity and hastily informed Hancock that he planned to inoculate all his
troops. He also asked Dr. William Shippen to inoculate recruits passing through
Philadelphia en route to his army, an enlightened action that helped stave off an
epidemic.
Washington’s tenure as commander in chief featured relatively few battles, often
fought after extended intervals of relative calm, underscoring the importance of
winning the allegiance of a population that vacillated between fealty to the Crown
and patriotic indignation. The fair treatment of civilians formed an essential part
of the war effort. Washington had a sure grasp of the principles of this republican
revolution, asserting that “the spirit and willingness of the people must in a great
measure take [the] place of coercion.”8 No British general could compete with him
in this contest for popular opinion. With one eye ﬁxed on the civilian populace,
Washington showed punctilious respect for private property and was especially
perturbed when American troops sacked houses under the pretext that the owners

The Busy Scenes of a Camp r! 2 87

were Tories. His overriding goal was to contrast his own humane behavior with the
predatory ways of the enemy.
Nothing expressed Washington’s outrage over the abuse of civilians more powerfully than an October 1778 incident involving his personal guard. John Herring,
a member of that guard, was sent to get supplies for Washington’s table and was
furnished with a horse and pass. When rebuffed at the home of a Tory named
Prince Howland, he spied some costly objects he coveted and dispatched three
others from Washington’s guard—John Herrick, Moses Walton, and a ﬁfer named
Elias Brown—to procure them. The three men broke into Howland’s house and
looted silver spoons, silver dollars, and clothing, then repeated the performance
at the home of one John Hoag. In protesting the incident, Howland described the
three vandals as having worn the round hats adorned with bearskin strips that distinguished Washington’s guard. Washington endorsed the death sentences handed
down by a court-martial to Herring, Brown, and Walton, along with one hundred
lashes for Herrick. “His Excellency the Commander in Chief approves these sentences,” read the general orders. “Shocked at the frequent, horrible villainies of this
nature committed by the troops of late, he is determined to make examples which
will deter the boldest and most harden[e]d offenders.”9 While Walton and Brown
escaped before execution, John Herring was duly hung, and John Herrick received
his one hundred lashes.
The opinions of New Jersey’s citizens became of paramount importance after
the Trenton and Princeton victories removed the aura of protection that had sustained Loyalist families. A militant to his ﬁngertips, Washington cherished no love
for Tories, whom he portrayed as diabolical and branded “abominable pests of society.”10 He now promulgated an order that those who had sworn loyalty to England
should swear allegiance to the United States. For those who demurred, Washington granted (in a lovely rhetorical ploy) “full liberty” to defect to the other side.11
He devised an exquisitely civilized policy: Loyalists would be conducted to British
lines with their personal possessions but would have the option of leaving behind
their wives and children. Such Solomon-like solutions made George Washington
the country’s ﬁrst chief executive a dozen years before he was ofﬁcially elected to
the post.
During the winter of 1776–77 the British sent out foraging parties from New
York to raid the New Jersey countryside, and Washington directed the militia to
“harass their troops to death” in what became a conﬂict of “daily skirmishes.”12
This small-scale warfare whittled away British power as the militia gathered horses,
cattle, and sheep to feed the American army. Thomas Jones, a Loyalist judge in New
York, wrote that not “a stick of wood, a spear of grass or a kernel of corn could the
troops in New Jersey procure without ﬁghting for it.”13 Congressmen constantly

288

r! The Gener a l

requested that Washington defend their districts but refused to appropriate money
to do so. These amateur experts, he thought, had no idea of the handicaps under
which he toiled. “In a word,” he seethed, “when they are at a distance, they think it
is but to say, ‘Presto! Begone’ and everything is done.”14 It took tremendous strength
to parry requests from politicians whose support he desperately needed.
During the long Morristown winter, Washington made notable advances in
organizing a spy network under his personal supervision. This operation had enjoyed a top priority from the moment he arrived in Cambridge in 1775. With his
natural reticence and sphinxlike personality, Washington was a natural student of
espionage. At ﬁrst his spy operation was haphazard in nature, cohering into a true
system only by 1779. To guarantee secrecy, he never hinted in letters at the identity
of spies. Instead he assigned them names or numbers or employed vague locutions,
such as “the person you mentioned.”15 He favored having the minimum number of
people involved in any spy ring, and the diagram of the network existed in his mind
alone. After 1779 he frequently had spies communicate via invisible ink, developed
by John James’s brother James, who was a doctor and an amateur chemist. This ink
was usually applied to blank pages of books or interlined in family letters. “It is in
my power, I believe, to procure a liquid which nothing but a counter liquor (rubbed
over the paper afterwards) can make legible” was how he described its workings.16
Secret notes were typically pressed between leather bindings and pasteboard covers
of transported books.
To spy on New York—“the fountain of all intelligence,” Washington anointed
it—was his principal objective, and he soon had the town covered with informers.
He preferred people who could gather intelligence in the course of their everyday
affairs, and his mind proved inventive in its choices.17 With some spies Washington
even offered personal coaching, telling one to “mix with and put on the airs of
a Tory to cover his real character and avoid suspicion.”18 With an insatiable appetite for intelligence, he entreated Presbyterian minister Alexander McWhorter,
the chaplain of an artillery brigade, to press convicted spies for information, while
offering them theological comfort before they were hung.
Right before the Princeton battle, Washington informed Philadelphia ﬁnancier
Robert Morris that “we have the greatest occasion at present for hard money to pay
a certain set of people who are of particular use to us . . . Silver would be most convenient.”19 Washington considered Morris, a huge man with a ruddy complexion
and a genial personality, the ﬁnancier with the best mercantile knowledge and connections in North America. He often tapped Morris for money because he needed
to bypass Congress, which couldn’t be trusted to keep secrets. When Morris ﬁrst
approached a rich Quaker in Philadelphia for funds, the man balked, saying he was
“opposed to ﬁghting of any sort.”20 Morris overcame the man’s religious scruples

The Busy Scenes of a Camp r! 2 8 9

and sent Washington two canvas bags bulging with glittering coins, including Spanish silver dollars, French half crowns, and English crowns, an incident Washington
always remembered. That he was allowed to supervise an espionage budget, without
accounting to Congress, bespeaks the extraordinary trust placed in the commander
in chief. Periodically he asked Congress for sums of gold for spies and kept the
money bags with his personal belongings for safekeeping. He practiced the entire
range of espionage tactics, including double agents and disinformation. In March
1777, for example, he passed along a litany of false information to Elisha Boudinot,
who was supposed to relay it to a spy “to deceive the enemy.”21
The circumspect Washington showed real artistry as a spymaster. This wasn’t
surprising, since he had repeatedly engaged in bluffs to fool the enemy. In April 1777
he alerted Joseph Reed that an unnamed man, recently arrested, had served as an
American spy. He was such a valuable agent that Washington passed along orders
that his allegiance should be reinforced by a “handsome present in money” and
that he should then be released in such a way as “to give it the appearance of an accidental escape from conﬁnement.”22 Washington’s instructions sounded knowing:
“Great care must be taken so to conduct the scheme as to make the escape appear
natural and real. There must be neither too much facility, nor too much reﬁnement,
for doing too little, or overacting the part, would alike beget a suspicion.”23 In using
spies as double agents to spread disinformation, Washington again seemed very expert: “It is best to keep them in a way of knowing as little of our true circumstances
as possible and, in order that they may really deceive the enemy in their reports, to
endeavour in the ﬁrst place to deceive them.”24 On one occasion that winter, when
an ofﬁcer requested permission to arrest a spy, Washington shrewdly suggested that
he woo the spy with a dinner invitation, then leave nearby, as if by sheer negligence,
a sheet pegging the Continental Army’s strength at a grossly exaggerated number.
It was one of many ways that Washington misled the enemy to conceal his own
weakness.
Washington devoted far more time to the onerous task of drafting letters than to
leading men into battle. Running an embryonic government, he protested to Congress that he and his aides “are conﬁned from morn till eve, hearing and answering
the applications and letters of one and another,” leaving him with “no hours for
recreation.”25 He groaned at the huge stacks of correspondence and felt besieged
by supplicants for various favors. At times the enormous quantity of paperwork
must have seemed more daunting than British arms. When brother Samuel asked
for a portrait of him, he pleaded a lack of time to sit for a painter: “If ever you get a
picture of mine, taken from the life, it must be when I am remov[e]d from the busy
scenes of a camp.”26 At times, he appeared overwhelmed by bureaucratic demands,
with the “business of so many different departments centering with me and by me

290

r! The Gener a l

to be handed on to Congress for their information, added to the intercourse I am
obliged to keep up with the adjacent states.”27
Washington had trained himself to write pithy, meaty letters, with little frivolity or small talk. The letters were always clear, sometimes elegant, often forceful.
Even Jefferson, a ﬂuent wordsmith, praised Washington’s correspondence, saying that “he wrote readily, rather diffusely, in an easy and correct style.”28 Because
aides drafted most of Washington’s superlative wartime letters, some historians
have denied him credit. But Washington oversaw their work, ﬁrst giving them
the gist of messages, then editing drafts until they met his exacting standards.
His aides became ﬁne mimics of their boss, and their letters echo one another’s
because they were well schooled in Washington’s style. He wanted letters so immaculate that he had them rewritten several times if they contained even small
erasures.
Washington worked in close proximity with aides, who typically slept under the
same roof. These scribes labored in a single room, bent over small wooden tables,
while the commander kept a small ofﬁce to the side. As at Mount Vernon, Washington adhered to an unvarying daily routine. Arriving fully dressed, he breakfasted
with his aides and parceled out letters to be answered, along with his preferred responses. He then reviewed his troops on horseback and expected to ﬁnd the letters
in ﬁnished form by the time of his noonday return.
The best camaraderie that Washington enjoyed came in the convivial company
of his young aides during midafternoon dinners. Up to thirty people attended these
affairs, many sitting on walnut camp stools. As much as possible, Washington converted these repasts into little oases of elegant society, a reminder of civilized life
at Mount Vernon. The company dined on damask tablecloths and used sparkling
silver ﬂatware bearing Washington’s grifﬁn crest, while drinking wine from silver
cups. One aide sat beside Washington and helped to serve the food and drinks.
These meals could last for hours, with a bountiful table covered by heavy, succulent
foods. One amazed French visitor recalled that “the meal was in the English fashion,
consisting of eight or ten large [serving] dishes of meat and poultry, with vegetables
of several sorts, followed by a second course of pastry, comprised under the two denominations of ‘pies’ and ‘puddings.’ ”29 There followed abundant platters of apples
and nuts. Washington liked to crack nuts as he talked, a habit that he later blamed
for his long history of dental trouble.
At these dinners Washington seemed at his most unbuttoned. If he wasn’t
skilled at repartee, he was quite sociable and had no trouble making conversation,
enjoying the company of his bright young disciples. A later visitor to Mount Vernon
captured Washington’s contradictory personality: “Before strangers, he is generally
very reserved and seldom says a word.” On the other hand, “the general with a few

The Busy Scenes of a Camp r! 2 91

glasses of champagne got quite merry and being with his intimate friends laughed
and talked a good deal.”30
In early 1777 a large turnover occurred in Washington’s military family as his
ﬁrst batch of aides gave way to a ﬂock of new faces. Nathanael Greene brieﬂy replaced Joseph Reed, who had resigned and was somewhat estranged from Washington. After the Fort Washington disaster, Greene was thrilled to be rehabilitated,
even if it meant being temporarily demoted to clerical work. “I am exceedingly
happy in the full conﬁdence of His Excellency General Washington, and I found
[that conﬁdence] to increase every hour, the more [difﬁcult] and distressing our affairs grew,” Greene told his wife.31 Washington demanded self-sacriﬁce from aides,
who had to follow his schedule uncomplainingly. If he slept in the open air before
a battle, so did they. “When I joined His Excellency’s suite,” wrote James McHenry,
“I gave up soft beds, undisturbed repose, and the habits of ease and indulgence . . .
for a single blanket, the hard ﬂoor or the softer sod of the ﬁelds, early rising, and
almost perpetual duty.”32
Washington’s choices for his military family were permeated by an aristocratic
ethos that could be hard to square with the republican spirit. He perpetuated the
patrician ethos ﬁrst encountered on General Braddock’s staff; indeed, his use of the
term “family” was borrowed from British practice. Of twenty-two aides-de-camp
and military secretaries that he appointed during the ﬁrst two years of the conﬂict,
more than half came from Virginia and Maryland, many of them smart young men
from his own social class. Robert Hanson Harrison of Virginia and Tench Tilghman
of Maryland ﬁt the bill perfectly, while Caleb Gibbs took the role of the token New
Englander.
Washington was adept at identifying young talent. He wanted eager young men
who worked well together, pitched in with alacrity, and showed esprit de corps.
His own personality forbade backslapping familiarity or easy joviality. Beneath his
reserve, however, he had an excellent capacity for reading people and adapting his
personality to them. As before the war, he remained wary in relationships and lowered his emotional barriers only slowly, but he was trusting once colleagues earned
his conﬁdence. Washington’s young aides satisﬁed a need for affection that men his
own age, with whom he felt far more competitive, could scarcely have done.
Debilitated by never-ending bags of mail, Washington said he needed someone
who could “comprehend at one view the diversity of matter which comes before
me.”33 On March 1, 1777, that person appeared in the shape of Alexander Hamilton,
the twenty-two-year-old boy wonder and artillery captain whose pyrotechnics at
White Plains and the Raritan River had so impressed Washington. In the short,
slim, and ingenious Hamilton, Washington encountered an ambition that could
well have reminded him of his younger self.

292

r! The Gener a l

Unlike the often afﬂuent aides in Washington’s family, Hamilton was an illegitimate young man who had been born on Nevis and spent his adolescence on St.
Croix. Five years earlier he had been an impoverished clerk in a Caribbean trading
house. Thanks to a subscription taken up by wealthy local merchants who spotted
his potential, he was sent to school in North America. Starting in Elizabethtown,
New Jersey, and then at King’s College in New York, he displayed the same knack as
the young Washington for capturing the conﬁdence of inﬂuential older men. Possessed of an aristocratic savoir faire that belied his background, Hamilton turned
himself, with uncommon speed, from an outcast of the islands into a Revolutionary
insider. His perfectionist nature rivaled Washington’s own. He toted about a sack
of books, including Plutarch’s Lives, to improve himself and made extensive notations in the empty pages of a pay book. Still, noticeable differences between the two
men introduced tensions. Hamilton was more cerebral than Washington and less
tolerant of human foibles, racing through life at a frenetic pace. Where Washington
could usually subdue his strong emotions, Hamilton was often impetuous, with
highly fallible judgment. For all his charm, he was much too proud and headstrong
to be a surrogate son to George Washington or anyone else.
Hamilton rapidly became Washington’s most gifted scribe and his “principal
and most conﬁdential aide,” often attending war councils and enjoying a comprehensive view of the conﬂict.34 One ofﬁcer claimed that Hamilton “thought as well as
wrote for Washington.”35 Hamilton revered Washington’s courage, patriotism, and
integrity and never doubted that he was the indispensable ﬁgure in the war effort.
Nevertheless, no man is a hero to his valet, and Hamilton left some candidly critical
views of Washington. He regarded Washington as a general of only modest ability
and quickly sensed the powerful emotions bottled up inside his overwrought boss,
whom he often found snappish and difﬁcult.36
By this point in the war, Washington’s leadership style was crystal clear. He never
insulated himself from contrary opinions, having told Joseph Reed early in the war
to keep him posted on even unfriendly scuttlebutt. “I can bear to hear of imputed
or real errors,” he wrote. “The man who wishes to stand well in the opinion of others must do this, because he is thereby enabled to correct his faults or remove the
prejudices which are imbib[e]d against him.”37 Washington made excellent use of
war councils to weigh all sides of an issue. Never a man of lightning-fast intuitions
or sudden epiphanies, he usually groped his way to ﬁrm and accurate conclusions.
Equipped with keen powers of judgment rather than originality, he was at his best
when reacting to options presented by others. Once he made up his mind, it was
difﬁcult to dislodge him from his opinion, so thoroughly had he plumbed things
through to the bottom.
Even as he fought the British, Washington deemed their army the proper model

The Busy Scenes of a Camp r! 2 93

to emulate. As late as 1780 he made passing reference to “the British Army, from
whence most of our rules and customs are derived, and in which long experience
and improvement has brought their system as near perfection as in any other service.”38 As in choosing aides, Washington believed that well-bred people made the
best ofﬁcers, advising Patrick Henry that the most reliable way to select a candidate was to ﬁnd someone with “a just pretension to the character of a gentleman, a
proper sense of honor, and some reputation to lose.”39 As in the French and Indian
War, he warned ofﬁcers to avoid excessive familiarity with their inferiors. “Be easy
and condescending in your deportment to your ofﬁcers,” he instructed a Virginia
commander, “but not too familiar, lest you subject yourself to a want of that respect
which is necessary to support a proper command.”40 He required noncommissioned
ofﬁcers to wear swords “as a mark of distinction and to enable them the better to
maintain the authority due to their stations.”41 At the same time he pleaded with
ofﬁcers to lead by example and share their men’s hardships, saying “it ought to be
the pride of an ofﬁcer to share the fatigue as well as danger to which his men are
exposed.”42 That he championed Knox and Hamilton shows how the exigencies of
the war forced him to search beyond his own social stratum and democratize the
army almost in spite of himself.
During that Morristown winter Washington stressed the importance of clean
clothing and sanitary quarters and a nutritious diet with vegetables and salads.
He issued blanket prohibitions against playing cards and dice. While he couldn’t
ban alcohol outright—the daily rations of rum were bottled courage—he tried to
have soldiers drink it in diluted form and avoid “the vile practice of swallowing
the whole ration of liquor at a single draft.”43 Washington valued well-played music in army life and assigned a band to each brigade. At one point he chided a ﬁfe
and drum corps for playing badly and insisted that they practice more regularly;
a year later, after the drummers took this admonition to an extreme, Washington
restricted their practice to one hour in the morning, a second in the afternoon.
He was also irked by the improvisations of some drummers and, amid the misery
of Valley Forge, took the trouble to issue this broadside to wayward drummers:
“The use of drums are as signals to the army and, if every drummer is allowed to
beat at his pleasure, the intention is entirely destroy[e]d, as it will be impossible to
distinguish whether they are beating for their own pleasure or for a signal to the
troops.”44
In crusading for moral reformation among his men, Washington feared that
profane language would undermine discipline. He winced when soldiers swore in
his presence. As the general orders said of Washington, “His feelings are continually
wounded by the oaths and imprecations of the soldiers whenever he is in hearing
of them.”45 He was also apt to invoke the aid of religion. During the summer of 1776

2 94

r! The Gener a l

the Continental Congress granted him permission to attach chaplains to each regiment, and he encouraged attendance at divine services by rotating his own presence
among them. “The blessings and protection of Heaven are at all times necessary,
but especially so in times of public distress and danger,” he assured his men, hoping
“that every ofﬁcer and man will endeavor so to live and act as becomes a Christian
soldier defending the dearest rights and liberties of his country.”46 This was one of
the rare times Washington referred to Christianity rather than Providence. In fact,
he favored having chaplains chosen by local military units so no denominational
character could be imposed from above.
Washington construed favorable events in the war as reﬂections of Providence,
transforming him from an actor in a human drama into a tool of heavenly purpose.
This expressed his religious faith but also satisﬁed certain political needs. While it
lifted from his shoulders the credit for victories, it also didn’t burden him unduly
with the crushing weight of defeat. He didn’t have to feel as if the entire fate of the
nation rested with him. For someone afraid of showing vanity, he could also avoid
boasting by invoking the signal role of Providence, enabling him to discuss victories with seeming humility. Unquestionably Washington believed that Providence
watched out for the United States of America and for him. Early in the war he
told his brother Samuel that he had “a perfect reliance upon that Providence which
heretofore has befriended and smiled upon me.”47 It’s worth noting that Washington didn’t see humans as passive actors and believed that God helped those who
helped themselves: “Providence has done much for us in this contest,” he said later
in the war, “but we must do something for ourselves, if we expect to go triumphantly through with it.”48

A s a m a n l a de n w i t h m a n y se cr ets who unburdened himself to only
a small circle of conﬁdants, Washington had to hide moments of despondency
from the army, giving few people access to his private grief. In the spring of 1777 a
secondhand report reached Lord Howe’s ears that a maid in Washington’s employ
“frequently caught him in tears about the house and [said] that, when he is alone,
he appears constantly dejected and unhappy.”49 Washington weathered the winter’s
stern rigors, only to buckle beneath a ten-day illness in early March that left him
so weakened that he dealt only with essential business. His army of Continental
soldiers had thinned to a paltry 2,500 men. It must have been a huge relief to him
when Martha arrived in camp in mid-March. She had long since bowed to her fate
as faithful helpmeet, the person who could cater to his emotional needs and create
an entertaining social life. It helped that she had struck up a warm rapport with his
military family.

The Busy Scenes of a Camp r! 2 9 5

Martha set about to get her husband to relax and enjoy the convivial society
of several ladies. She organized cordial dinners, pleasant jaunts on horseback,
and other lighthearted escapes. Everyone watched the commander in chief visibly
brighten in her presence, conﬁrming that theirs was a happy marriage. A young
French aristocrat shortly to arrive at camp, the Marquis de Lafayette, viewed Martha as “a modest and respectable person, who loves her husband madly.”50 A sharpeyed newcomer to the scene, Martha Daingerﬁeld Bland, wife of a Virginia colonel,
corroborated the “perfect felicity” between the Washingtons.51 Mrs. Bland enjoyed
the outings on horseback, which gave her a chance to ogle the personable young
aides—“all polite sociable gentlemen,” as she informed her sister-in-law Fanny.
She seemed especially attracted to Hamilton, describing him as “a sensible, genteel,
polite young fellow, a West Indian.”52 Most of all she was positively smitten with
Washington: “Now let me speak of our noble and agreeable commander (for he
commands both sexes), one by his excellent skill in military matters, the other by
his ability, politeness, and attention.”53 Washington had a teasing, ﬂirtatious nature, she hinted; with attractive young women, there was nothing dour about him.
At riding parties, she wrote, “General Washington throws off the Hero and takes
on the chatty, agreeable companion. He can be downright impudent sometimes—
such impudence, Fanny, as you and I like.”54
Whenever possible, Washington enlisted the support of women in the war, especially in donating clothing, bandages, or other supplies. When Sarah Bache, Benjamin Franklin’s daughter, sent such a gift on behalf of patriotic women, Washington
replied gallantly that “the value of the donation will be greatly enhanced by a consideration of the hands by which it was made and presented.”55 Often, when he addressed women during the war, a gracious note leavened his careworn prose. Quite
different were his stormy relations with the hundreds of women who tagged after
the army. Some “camp followers” were undoubtedly prostitutes, but many more
were wives and friends of soldiers who washed, sewed, and baked in exchange for
daily rations. Washington objected that they bogged down the speedy movement of
his army, and it especially irked him when women were given critically short spaces
in wagons. As he complained early in the conﬂict, “The multitude of women . . .
especially those who are pregnant, or have children, are a clog upon every movement.”56 In the end Washington threw up his hands in despair and concluded that
he couldn’t exile these women without sacriﬁcing their husbands and lovers, “some
of the oldest and best soldiers in the service.”57
During the summer of 1777 Washington invited into his retinue a prepossessing
young aide who brought dash and brilliance to the task. John Laurens, twenty-two,
was the son of Henry Laurens, who would succeed John Hancock as president of
the Continental Congress and was one of South Carolina’s largest slave owners.

296

r! The Gener a l

The younger Laurens had a classy European education—schooling in Geneva, legal study in London—and enhanced both the intellect and the reforming spirit
of Washington’s staff. In later describing Laurens, Washington issued the sterling
appraisal that “no man possessed more of the amor patria—in a word, he had not
a fault that I ever could discover, unless intrepidity bordering upon rashness could
come under that denomination, and to this he was excited by the purest motives.”58
As with Hamilton, Tilghman, and several others, Washington showed a special afﬁnity for ambitious young aides who looked trim in uniform or astride a horse and
possessed great charm and intelligence.
Because Washington was childless and drew close to several aides, many biographers have been tempted to turn them into surrogate sons, but the only one who
closely matched this description was the Marquis de Lafayette, who eagerly embraced the role. The young French nobleman was tall and slim, with a pale, oval face
and thin, reddish-brown hair that receded sharply at the temples. His nose was long
and slightly upturned, his mouth short but full-lipped. Like the young Washington,
Lafayette had an extraordinary knack for endearing himself to older men, and he
looked up to them admiringly.
Washington’s fondness for Lafayette’s boyish zest probably expressed some suppressed craving for paternal intimacy. So many things about the younger man—his
ﬂorid language, his poetic effusions, his transparent ambitions, his well-meaning
if clumsy manner—seemed the antithesis of himself. Lafayette was pure-hearted
and high-spirited, with an impetuous streak of grandiosity. Where Washington was
guarded about his pursuit of fame, Lafayette, Jefferson saw, was always “panting for
glory” with an almost “canine appetite for popularity and fame.”59 Abigail Adams
found him too assertive: “He is dangerously amiable, polite, affable, insinuating,
pleasing, hospitable, indefatigable, and ambitious.”60 Indeed, despite a certain shyness, Lafayette showed a courtier’s love of compliments, was a master of ﬂattery,
and liked to hug people in the French manner. Perhaps Washington doted on the
young man because he dared to express emotions that he himself stiﬂed, thawing his frosty reserve and opening an outlet for his suppressed emotions. Lafayette
seemed to transport Washington back to his own youth, before he was stooped
under the weight of responsibility, reminding him of love, passion, and chivalry.
Lafayette fell readily into the deferential, ﬁlial role. Unlike the arrogant French
ofﬁcers who ﬂocked to America for self-serving reasons, Lafayette was actuated by
true idealism. Though lacking battleﬁeld experience, he was a fast study, showed
courage under ﬁre, and had an imaginative mind for military schemes. If he seemed
slightly ridiculous at ﬁrst, he turned into an intrepid warrior and a general of considerable ﬁnesse. Once again Washington showed an excellent eye for talent. By the
end of the war, he delivered this encomium to Lafayette: “He possesses uncommon

The Busy Scenes of a Camp r! 2 9 7

military talents, is of a quick and sound judgment, persevering and enterprising
without rashness, and besides these, he is of a very conciliating temper and perfectly sober . . . qualities that rarely combine in the same person.”61
Born into an illustrious family in 1757, Lafayette bore a baptismal name of stupefying grandeur: Marie-Joseph-Paul-Yves-Roch-Gilbert du Motier de La Fayette.
“I was baptized like a Spaniard,” he wrote, “with the name of every conceivable saint
who might offer me more protection in battle.”62 When he was only two, his father
was cut down by a British cannon. This untimely loss and his upbringing on a vast
estate in central France bred dreams of military honor: “I remember nothing of my
childhood more than my fervor for tales of glory and my plans to travel the world
in quest of fame.”63 When he was twelve, his mother died, leaving the orphan with
a huge inheritance and relatives sprinkled throughout the French aristocracy. He
attended an exclusive riding school at Versailles, socializing with the king’s grandsons and mingling with grandees. At age sixteen, he married fourteen-year-old
Adrienne de Noailles, thereby attaching himself to one of France’s noblest families; the marriage contract was signed by King Louis XV himself. Lafayette joined
a Masonic military lodge and captained the Noailles Dragoons. He and his young
bride became habitués of the masked balls and banquets hosted by Louis XVI and
his foreign bride, Marie-Antoinette. Finding Versailles pretentious and decadent,
Lafayette was convinced that he lacked the social talents to thrive there as a courtier:
“My awkward manner made it impossible for me to bend to the graces of the court
or to the charms of a supper in the capital.”64 So gauche was he that when he once
danced with Marie-Antoinette, the queen threw back her head and laughed at him
outright.
Perhaps Lafayette was searching for some escape when he attended a dinner
in 1775 and heard rousing tales of the American independence movement: “When
I ﬁrst heard of [the colonists’] quarrel, my heart was enlisted, and I thought only
of joining my colors to those of the revolutionaries.”65 He was then in a military
camp at Metz, and Adrienne was pregnant with their ﬁrst child, but he began to
plot a path to North America. In April 1777 Lafayette, only nineteen, took charge of
a cargo boat named La Victoire, stocked it with food and munitions, and secretly
set sail in deﬁance of a royal order. The beau monde of Paris was electriﬁed by this
quixotic deed, and Voltaire knelt before Adrienne in homage to her husband. On
the voyage, between bouts of seasickness, Lafayette brushed up on his English and
studied military strategy. Already intoxicated with revolutionary rhetoric, he wrote
to his wife, “The happiness of America is intimately connected with the happiness
of all mankind.”66
In June Lafayette landed in South Carolina and viewed this new land through
rose-colored glasses. “What charms me here is that all the citizens are brothers,” he

298

r! The Gener a l

told his wife. “In America there are no paupers, or even the sort of people we call
peasants.”67 Armed with a letter from Benjamin Franklin, the starry-eyed young
nobleman went straight to Philadelphia and met John Hancock. In his letter Franklin recommended that the well-connected Lafayette be coddled and shielded from
danger, expressing hope that “his bravery and ardent desire to distinguish himself
will be a little restrained by . . . prudence, so as not to permit his being hazarded
much but on some important occasion.”68 Lafayette was so young that his friends
wanted to send him money via Washington, who would then dole it out like an
allowance. Heeding Franklin’s advice, Congress found a way both to ﬂatter and to
constrain Lafayette: he would enjoy the rank of major general, with the caveat that
the title was strictly honorary.
Washington ﬁrst met Lafayette at the City Tavern in Philadelphia on the evening of July 31, 1777. On the spot the young man, already decked out in a major
general’s sash, was awestruck. “Although [Washington] was surrounded by ofﬁcers
and citizens,” Lafayette wrote home, “the majesty of his ﬁgure and his height were
unmistakable.”69 Aware of Lafayette’s diplomatic value, Washington befriended the
young man and invited him to tour Delaware River fortiﬁcations with him the next
day. Despite immediate cordiality between the two, an unspoken tension lurked as
well. Lafayette didn’t accept that his rank was merely for show and asked for two
aides and command of a division, thereby presenting Washington with an excruciating dilemma. “If Congress meant that this rank should be unaccompanied by
command,” Washington complained to one congressman, “I wish it had been sufﬁciently explained to him.”70 He decided to invite the young Frenchman into his
military family as an honorary aide.
Notwithstanding his fervent devotion to the cause, Lafayette sensed that Washington didn’t trust him. “This thought was an obsession,” he recalled almost ﬁfty
years later, “and it made me very unhappy.”71 Fortunately, the young man possessed
a superb sense of Washington’s psychology and behaved in a becomingly modest fashion. A week after their ﬁrst meeting, Washington asked him to review the
Continental Army with him, which Lafayette described as “eleven thousand men,
poorly armed and even more poorly clothed.”72 Watching these threadbare men,
Washington confessed to Lafayette that “we should be embarrassed to show ourselves to an ofﬁcer who has just left the French army.”73 Lafayette’s response was
inspired: “It is not to teach but to learn that I come hither.”74 Such modesty won
Washington’s affection, and he grew closer to this young French acolyte. Nothing
pleased Washington more than unconditional loyalty, and Lafayette served it up in
abundance. The marquis told his wife that the general, “surrounded by ﬂatterers or
secret enemies,” had found in him “a sincere friend, in whose bosom he may always
conﬁde his most secret thoughts, and who will always speak the truth.”75

The Busy Scenes of a Camp r! 2 9 9

Lafayette’s modesty was especially beguiling considering that many French ofﬁcers preened and jockeyed for positions. It had become fashionable in Paris for
bumptious young ofﬁcers and prodigal sons to seek commissions from American
diplomats Benjamin Franklin and Silas Deane. “The noise of every coach now that
enters my court terriﬁes me,” Franklin admitted. “I am afraid to accept an invitation
to dine abroad, being almost sure of meeting with some ofﬁcer or ofﬁcer’s friend.”76
Unlike with Lafayette, these cynical ofﬁcers were motivated less by idealism than by
pure vanity. America simply represented a handy battleﬁeld for winning honors.
Washington bristled at the parade of pretentious French ofﬁcers who strutted into
his presence, demanding high appointments. He didn’t speak French and delegated
correspondence in that language to the bilingual Hamilton, whose mother came
from a French Huguenot family, and to John Laurens, who had studied in Geneva.
Swamped by foreign ofﬁcers, Washington complained to John Hancock that they
were “coming in swarms from old France and the islands . . . Their ignorance of our
language and their inability to recruit men are insurmountable obstacles to their
being ingrafted into our Continental battalions.”77 He pleaded with Franklin to
stanch the ﬂow of military frauds and pretenders. “Our corps being already formed
and fully ofﬁcered,” he wrote, “every new arrival is only a source of embarrassment
to congress and myself and of disappointment and chagrin to the gentlemen who
come over.”78 Compared with the persistent French ofﬁcers who clamored noisily
for commissions, the Marquis de Lafayette seemed the soul of humility.

ch ap ter t w ent y-fiv e

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Darkness Visible

From t h e l at e spr i ng through early summer of 1777, George Washington
anxiously tracked British movements in New York, attempting to divine their hidden meaning. General Howe commanded an army double or treble the size of his
own, keeping him in an agony of suspense. Would the British general suddenly
lunge north to hook up with General Burgoyne, who was then marching south
from Canada? Or would he head for Philadelphia by sea or land to exploit the propaganda triumph of expelling the Continental Congress from the city?
To guard against any action along the Hudson River, Washington kept forces
in the Hudson Highlands; to protect Philadelphia, he kept another portion of his
army stationed at Middlebrook, New Jersey, ready to rebuff thrusts into the state.
As usual, Howe proved diabolically clever at deception, making several feints into
New Jersey. When he had tried to draw the Americans camped in Morristown into
open combat, Washington had refused to rise to the bait. “We have such contradictory accounts from different quarters,” a confounded Washington reﬂected, “that
I ﬁnd it impossible to form any satisfactory judgment of the real motions and intentions of the enemy.”1 Reports that Howe was recruiting pilots acquainted with
the Delaware River strengthened Washington’s hunch that the British planned to
invade Philadelphia by water. Howe’s reconnaissance of American defenses on the
Delaware would persuade him to try a novel approach to the city.
During this period, as he drilled his men, Washington had to sacriﬁce the comforts of his winter camp. At Middlebrook he slept for ﬁve weeks in one of his ofﬁcial
tents, or “sleeping marquees.” At one point he led his troops to a “very difﬁcult and
rugged gorge” called the Clove in the Hudson Highlands, where he found only a

Darkness Visible r! 301

tumbledown log cabin for shelter. He occupied the sole bed, while aides dozed on
the ﬂoor around him. “We had plenty of sepawn [boiled cornmeal] and milk and
all were contented,” said Timothy Pickering.2
While at the Clove, Washington was blindsided by shocking news: Fort Ticonderoga, in upstate New York, had fallen. In an ignominious defeat, the American
garrison had surrendered without a shot. Simply staggered, Washington spluttered
to General Schuyler that it was “an event of chagrin and surprise not apprehended,
nor within the compass of my reasoning.”3 Washington feared that Ticonderoga’s
downfall was merely the prelude to a British attempt to slice the country in half
along the Hudson River; Howe would move up the river from New York to rendezvous with Burgoyne. Then on July 23 Howe’s New York–based ﬂeet—the biggest
armada ever to cruise North American waters—set sail from Sandy Hook, its mysterious movements keeping Washington suspended “in a state of constant perplexity.”4 Guessing correctly that Howe was bound for Philadelphia, Washington began
deploying his men southward. After breakfast on July 31, a messenger came to him
with fresh tidings: the British ﬂeet of 228 ships had surfaced off the capes of the
Delaware River. By occupying Philadelphia, Howe hoped to tap latent Tory sentiment in the mid-Atlantic states and break American morale.
In his maddening way, Howe then disappeared again with his ﬂeet, unnerving Washington anew. “I confess the conduct of the enemy is distressing beyond
measure and past our comprehension,” he said.5 His army wilted in oppressive heat
during exhausting marches intended to counter British moves. In late August the
wily Howe showed up in the Chesapeake Bay with an unorthodox strategy for taking Philadelphia. Instead of trying to capture it from the river, he planned to land
his troops at Head of Elk, in the northern bay, then march north to Philadelphia.
Frankly ﬂummoxed, Washington surmised that Howe “must mean to reach Philadelphia by that route, though to be sure it is a very strange one.”6 The truth was that
Howe aimed to lure his foe into a major confrontation. Washington now professed
eagerness for such an engagement: “One bold stroke will free the land from rapine,
devastations and burnings, and female innocence from brutal lust and violence.”7
As he rushed to defend Philadelphia, Washington decided to march his men
through the city before their looming encounter with British forces. A showman by
nature, he wanted to advertise the size and élan of the Continental Army, and he
choreographed their movements down to the last details. For this grand spectacle,
each soldier was to wear a green sprig, a symbol of victory, afﬁxed to his hat or hair.
This stage-managed political march was designed, according to Washington, to “have
some inﬂuence on the minds of the disaffected” in Philadelphia and on “those who
are dupes” to the “artiﬁces and opinions” of the British—in other words, Tories.8
On August 24, 1777, George Washington marched his army, twelve thousand

302

r! The Gener a l

strong, through Philadelphia, ﬁrst down Front Street, then up Chestnut Street.
Mounted on a white horse, he presented a shining ﬁgure at the head of the procession, with Lafayette riding at his side and Alexander Hamilton and John Laurens
close behind. The tide of soldiers poured on for two hours, the men trooping twelve
deep “with a lively smart step,” said one observer, to the nimble beat of a ﬁfe and
drum corps in each brigade.9 A stickler for rhythm, Washington warned his soldiers
to mind the beat, “without dancing along or totally disregarding the music, as too
often has been the case.”10 Anyone who abandoned the parade route faced a stiff
penalty of thirty-nine lashes. With every window and rooftop crammed with gaping spectators, the soldiers received a rousing reception from the exultant crowds.
Although Washington tried to offer a sanitized version of his drab army, the halfclad soldiers fell short of the spic-and-span panache that John Adams wanted. “Our
soldiers have not yet quite the air of soldiers,” he protested. “They don’t step exactly
in time. They don’t hold up their heads quite erect, nor turn out their toes exactly
as they ought.”11 The rest of the crowd, however, seemed thrilled by the survival of
this scrappy army against the world’s foremost military machine.
As Howe moved toward Philadelphia, Washington decided to cut off his approach at a place called Brandywine Creek, a difﬁcult stream to negotiate. He informed his men that the upcoming battle might be decisive. Should the British be
defeated, he proclaimed, “they are utterly undone—the war is at an end. Now then
is the time for our most strenuous exertions.”12 Not trusting to patriotism alone,
he reminded his men that ﬂeeing soldiers would “be instantly shot down as a just
punishment to themselves and for examples to others.”13 Rediscovering the virtue
of alcohol in battle, Washington issued an extra gill of rum (ﬁve ﬂuid ounces) to
each man on September 9 to fortify wavering courage.
A landscape of plunging ravines and forested hills, Brandywine Creek presented
a natural line of defense southwest of Philadelphia. Washington concentrated the
bulk of his forces on wooded high ground behind Chadds Ford, on the east side of
the creek, where the major road crossed. Relying on ﬂawed intelligence, he posted
detachments the length of the creek, stretching up to what he thought was the
northernmost crossing.
On the night of September 10, a spy informed Howe of the existence of two
fords still farther north—a ﬂagrant breach in American defenses that had gone unnoticed, in a manner reminiscent of the Battle of Brooklyn. Howe decided that he
and Cornwallis, with 8,200 men, would secretly execute a bold sweeping movement
to the north. They would then turn east, cross these newly discovered fords, circle
back to the south, and sneak up behind the right ﬂank of Washington’s army. All the
while, an advance column of 5,000 troops under Baron Wilhelm von Knyphausen
would smash straight east into Washington’s army at Chadds Ford, distracting the

Darkness Visible r! 303

Americans and duping them into thinking this was the main enemy offensive.
While Washington’s military instincts told him that Howe might steal up behind
his right ﬂank, he didn’t assign a high enough priority to investigating this possibility and delegated a crucial scouting mission to General John Sullivan and Colonel
Theodorick Bland. Unaccountably, the Americans proved ignorant of their own
home turf, while Howe operated with faultless information.
In the predawn light of September 11, 1777, General Howe launched his maneuver. In the early morning, Knyphausen’s units clashed, as planned, with the main
American force at Chadds Ford. Washington presided over the troops there and, as
usual, showed no qualms about exposing himself to enemy ﬁre, even when it beheaded an artilleryman nearby. The story is told that the chivalrous Major Patrick
Ferguson actually had Washington in his sights and could easily have killed him—
he didn’t know who it was—but refused to ﬁre on a man with his back turned.
Washington was pleased when Brigadier General William Maxwell rode up and
boasted that his marksmen had killed or wounded three hundred British soldiers.14
With Lafayette at his side, Washington rode the length of the line to the sound of
cheering men, but he was blind to the true shape of the emerging battleﬁeld.
Aware that he saw only a fraction of the British Army, Washington was tormented by a nagging question: What had happened to the bulk of the enemy’s
forces? Around noon Lieutenant Colonel James Ross of Pennsylvania informed
him that, on a reconnaissance expedition, he had clashed with ﬁve thousand British troops on the west side of Brandywine Creek, along the Great Valley Road; he
thought these troops had been led by General Howe himself. Washington didn’t
fathom the full meaning of this news, though he did, as a precaution, shift troops
under Adam Stephen and Lord Stirling to bolster General Sullivan’s men at Birmingham Hill, a position to his right that was well placed to resist any sudden
ﬂanking move from the upper forks.
On the spot, as his original battle plan unraveled, Washington sorted through
a blizzard of contradictory information. Charles Cotesworth Pinckney of South
Carolina remembered his patent frustration: “I heard him bitterly lament that Coll
Bland had not sent him any information at all and that the accounts he had received
from others were of a very contradictory nature.”15 Amid sharp clashes at Chadds
Ford, General Sullivan relayed a report from Major Joseph Spear saying that he, too,
had been at the Great Valley Road but found not a trace of Howe’s army. Tricked
by Howe many times, Washington feared that his nemesis was about to deceive
him again. Indeed, he drew the wrong conclusion from Spear’s report: he imagined
that Howe had turned south and was doubling back to Chadds Ford. But in fact
Howe was heading north in a long, looping movement; around noon his soldiers
and horses, veiled by thick fog, waded across the northern crossing at Jeffries Ford,

304

r! The Gener a l

of whose existence Washington was unaware. As they splashed through waist-high
water, the British and Hessians were ﬂabbergasted to encounter no American resistance. By one-ﬁfteen p.m. Washington had received reports of two British brigades
moving upon Birmingham Hill from the north and abruptly realized that Howe
had outwitted him. He spurred his horse toward the hill as fast as it would ﬂy, but
he still didn’t comprehend that the two brigades were merely the advance guard of
Howe’s vast army.
Around four p.m., to the resounding beat of drums, British and German
troops barreled forward in three sharply drawn columns, undeterred by a torrent
of American canister and grapeshot. Piercing a wide hole in American lines, they
engineered a deadly attack, ﬁring muskets and charging in bayonet attacks. Tree
branches snapped, leaves ﬂuttered down, and gun smoke enveloped the battleﬁeld.
Soon the ground was thickly littered with dead bodies, mostly American, and some
patriot divisions turned tail and ran. To complete a pincer movement against the
Americans, Knyphausen and his men blasted their way across Brandywine Creek,
diving at the Americans in a ﬁerce bayonet attack that left the water dyed red with
blood. The American private Elisha Stevens recorded the horror of “cannons roaring, muskets cracking, drums beating, bombs ﬂying all round,” not to mention the
groans of dying men.16 At ﬁve p.m. Washington dictated a message to Congress: “At
half after four o’clock, the enemy attacked General Sullivan at the ford next above
this and the action has been very violent ever since. It still continues. A very severe
cannonade has begun here, too, and I suppose we shall have a very hot evening.”17
Washington had been completely deceived by Howe. “A contrariety of intelligence,
in a critical and important point, contributed greatly, if it did not entirely bring on
the misfortunes of that day,” he later wrote.18
Three routed American divisions fell back “in the most broken and confused
manner,” according to Nathanael Greene, who managed to ﬁght a noble rearguard
action with his division. During the American retreat Lafayette showed his usual
valor, jumping into the fray to rally his men. Shot in the left calf, he didn’t grasp
the severity of the wound until his boot was soaked with blood and he had to be
lifted off the battleﬁeld. Possibly with some exaggeration, he claimed years later that
Washington told the surgeon, “Take care of him as if he were my son, for I love him
the same.”19 If true, this was an extraordinary statement, given how brieﬂy Washington had known Lafayette. It would conﬁrm that the young French nobleman
had touched him in some special way, and it again speaks to Washington’s unseen
emotional depths. He was always impressed by Lafayette’s bravery, his eagerness
to return to service. “When [Washington] learned I wanted to rejoin the army too
soon,” Lafayette told his wife, “he wrote the warmest of letters, urging me to concentrate on getting well ﬁrst.”20

Darkness Visible r! 3 0 5

With the sound of muskets still reverberating in their ears, the overpowered
Americans streamed east toward Chester in an unruly ﬂight. Lafayette recalled the
confused swarm of carts, cannon, and other military paraphernalia that the soldiers
managed to salvage. These battleﬁeld refugees, who straggled into the American
camp throughout the night, left behind so many hundreds of bleeding compatriots at Brandywine Creek that Howe asked Washington to send doctors to care for
them. All told, the Americans lost about 200 killed, 500 wounded, and 400 captured
versus only 90 killed and 500 wounded for the triumphant British.
Toward midnight, in a private home in Chester, Washington informed Congress of the shattering defeat. After asking Timothy Pickering to draft a note, he
found the message so dispiriting that he said some “words of encouragement” were
needed.21 If this was self-serving, it also reﬂected Washington’s ﬁrm belief that he
had to uphold American morale at all costs. The management of defeat had become
an essential aspect of his repertoire. Rather desperately, he tried to give a positive
gloss to the terrible thrashing his men had taken, grossly understating American
losses. His letter to John Hancock began, “Sir: I am sorry to inform you that in this
day’s engagement, we have been obliged to leave the enemy masters of the ﬁeld.”22
It continued: “Our loss of men is not, I am persuaded, very considerable; I believe
much less than the enemy’s . . . Notwithstanding the misfortune of the day, I am
happy to ﬁnd the troops in good spirits; and I hope another time, we shall compensate for the losses now sustained.”23 This sounded, after the bloody disaster, like
sheer fantasy, but the troops had fought in a spirited manner; the defeat resulted
from the failed performance of the leaders, not the lethargy of the rank and ﬁle.
Two weeks after the battle Washington still maintained that “the enemy’s loss was
considerable and much superior to ours.”24
It had been an ignoble defeat for Washington, who had failed to heed clues that
might have unlocked the key to Howe’s strategy. The commander in chief had frequently seemed marginal to the battle. As Pickering said, Washington had behaved
more like “a passive spectator than the commanding general.”25 Fighting on home
territory near Philadelphia, he should have been able to master the terrain instead
of relying on crude maps and erring scouts. The carnage and chaos of Brandywine
only reinforced an image of Washington as dithering and indecisive.
Thomas Jefferson traced Washington’s strengths and weaknesses as a general
to a persistent mental trait. He prepared thoroughly for battles and did extremely
well if everything went according to plan. “But if deranged during the course of the
action,” Jefferson noted, “if any member of his plan was dislocated by sudden circumstances, he was slow in readjustment.”26 With a mind neither quick nor nimble,
Washington lacked the gift of spontaneity and found it difﬁcult to improvise on
the spot. Baron Johann de Kalb, who came to America with Lafayette, echoed Jef-

30 6

r! The Gener a l

ferson’s critique when he said of Washington after the Brandywine defeat, “He is the
most amiable, obliging, and civil man but, as a general, he is too slow, even indolent,
much too weak, and is not without his portion of vanity and presumption.”27 Even
Washington’s faithful ally Nathanael Greene conﬁded to Pickering that he found
Washington indecisive. “For my part,” he boasted, “I decide in a moment.”28 Washington’s inestimable strength, whether as a general, a planter, or a politician, was
prolonged deliberation and slow, mature decisions, but these were luxuries seldom
permitted in the heat and confusion of battle.
Somewhat unfairly, congressional opinion found General Sullivan culpable for
passing along bad information to Washington. The latter had the good grace to
acquit Sullivan of any blame, but he didn’t admit failure readily. Dr. Benjamin Rush
left an acidulous portrait of Washington’s compliant general staff after Brandywine. He saw the commander as a passive ﬁgure manipulated by Greene, Knox, and
Hamilton and portrayed his generals as a rogues’ gallery of incompetent buffoons:
“The ﬁrst [Greene] a sycophant to the general, speculative without enterprise. The
second [Sullivan] weak, vain, without dignity, fond of scribbling, in the ﬁeld a madman. The third [Stirling] a proud, vain, lazy, ignorant drunkard. The fourth [Stephen] a sordid, boasting, cowardly sot.”29 His description of the “undisciplined and
ragged” American camp was scarcely more ﬂattering, a scene of “bad bread, no
order, universal disgust.”30 It was true that Washington surrounded himself with
loyal men, but he never walled himself off from contrary opinion or tried to force
his views on his generals.
After the Brandywine disaster, Washington marched his battered army north
across the Schuylkill River to Pennypacker’s Mill. No longer could he guarantee the
safety of the American capital. He sent Alexander Hamilton and Henry Lee scurrying off on an urgent mission to burn ﬂour mills on the Schuylkill before they were
captured by the British. On the night of September 18, Hamilton alerted Hancock that
the British might enter the city by daybreak, triggering a panicky exodus of congressmen in the night. Thomas Paine remembered Philadelphia’s moonlit streets thronged
by so many people that the town resembled high noon on market day. “Congress was
chased like a covey of partridges from Philadelphia to Trenton, from Trenton to Lancaster,” recalled John Adams, who was especially upset by the emergency move and
disenchanted with the man he had once championed to lead the Continental Army.31
In his diary he scribbled, “Oh, Heaven! Grant us one great soul! . . . One active, masterly capacity would bring order out of this confusion and save this country.”32
The British didn’t claim possession of the capital for another week, giving
Washington a chance to gather vital supplies. Invoking emergency powers, he sent
Hamilton into the city, assisted by one hundred men, to requisition supplies. Many
soldiers had shed blankets and clothing, and one thousand were barefoot; with the

Darkness Visible r! 3 0 7

weather turning colder, these items rated high on the list of goods Hamilton demanded from residents during two frantic days of activity. Always skittish about
employing autocratic powers in a war fought for liberty, Washington had Hamilton
issue receipts to residents, in the hope they would someday be reimbursed. This
highly effective operation yielded forty rounds of ammunition per soldier.
Around this time Washington received another sickening piece of news. On the
night of September 20–21 British infantry had crept through the woods near Paoli
and massacred American troops led by General Anthony Wayne. To ensure surprise,
the British did not load their muskets but rushed forward with ﬁxed bayonets and
pitilessly slashed their sleeping victims, killing or wounding three hundred Americans. Even the British soldiers seemed appalled by the blood-smeared corpses, one
saying it was “more expressive of horror than all the thunder of the artillery . . . on
the day of action.”33 To worsen matters, hungry American soldiers went marauding
through the countryside, terrorizing inhabitants. Tired of marching in drenching
rains, they sought shelter wherever they could ﬁnd it. When the Reverend Henry
Muhlenberg had to bury a child at his church near Valley Forge, he found Washington’s men deﬁling it. An outraged Muhlenberg said that “several had placed the
objects of their gluttony on the altar. In short, I saw, in miniature, the abomination
of desolation in the temple.”34 If such desecration was the antithesis of the orderly
behavior Washington craved, it was hard to maintain morale with meager pay and
a dearth of military victories.
On September 26 the well-fed British Army entered Philadelphia and scored the
propaganda victory of controlling America’s capital and main metropolis. While
frightened citizens applauded the soldiers, as they had their American counterparts
a month earlier, the crowd consisted mostly of women and children, many men
having ﬂed. By this point Washington knew he was engaged in a war of attrition
and that holding towns was less important in this mobile style of warfare. As he
informed Henry Laurens, “The possession of our towns, while we have an army in
the ﬁeld, will avail [the British] little . . . It is our arms, not defenseless towns, they
have to subdue.”35

A lt hough C or n wa l l is h a d ta k e n a detachment of British and Hessian
soldiers into Philadelphia, General Howe retained the main body of his army at
Germantown, a village just six miles northwest of the city, hard by the Schuylkill
River. He expressly placed it there as a bulwark between Washington’s army and
the capital. Eager for a victory after so much wretched news, and with 8,000 Continentals and 3,000 militia at his disposal, Washington reckoned that he could stage
a surprise raid on Howe’s force of 9,000 men, an idea that grew on him when he

30 8

r! The Gener a l

learned that Howe had diverted two regiments to attack a small American fort on
the Delaware.
At a war council on October 3, Washington told his receptive generals that
Howe’s maneuver made it an auspicious moment for an operation. Forever attuned
to the psychological state of his men, he knew this might be the last chance for
a victory before winter. Only something dramatic could revive his countrymen’s
ﬂagging spirits. As he told his generals, “It was time to remind the English that an
American army still existed.”36 Once again Washington’s aggressive instincts forced
him into an action both courageous and foolhardy, one that belied his cautious
image as the American Fabius. As Joseph Ellis has written of Washington’s conﬂicting urges, “The strategic decision to make the survival of the Continental Army
the highest priority, the realization that he must ﬁght a protracted defensive war,
remained at odds with his own more decisive temperament.”37
As usual, Howe had shrewdly chosen his army camp at Germantown, a place
crisscrossed by creeks, ravines, and gorges. The town’s main street, the Germantown Road, was lined for two miles with snug, stone houses, many protected by
fences and hedges that could retard an American advance. Doubtless remembering
his nocturnal raid across the Delaware, Washington devised another convoluted
plan for a forced nighttime march. On October 3 four widely spaced but roughly
parallel columns would start moving southeast at nightfall and would converge on
Germantown by dawn. Along with General Sullivan, Washington would spearhead
a column of 3,000 men charging down the Germantown Road. To the northeast,
Greene would lead 5,000 men along a parallel path, the Lime Kiln Road, while still
farther north General William Smallwood and another 1,000 militia would venture
along a winding old Indian path called the Old York Road. To the south, General
John Armstrong would guide 2,000 Pennsylvania militia along the Schuylkill. If
all went according to plan, Washington’s central column would swoop down on
the unsuspecting British, while Greene’s column swung around and pinioned their
helpless army against the Schuylkill River.
As his troops gathered at dusk on October 3, Washington took several precautions that suggested a premonition of problems to come. Because the Continental
Army lacked a common uniform, he had his men insert shining white papers in
their hats so they wouldn’t accidentally shoot each other. Short on supplies, one
New Jersey regiment donned “redcoats” captured from British troops, awakening
understandable fears of men’s being killed by friendly ﬁre. The ﬁfteen-mile march
overnight would be further complicated by a rolling fog that sealed off the four
columns from one another. As had happened during the Delaware crossing, the
operation ran hours behind schedule, and the element of surprise was sacriﬁced
when a Loyalist warned the British of approaching Americans.

Darkness Visible r! 3 0 9

Washington’s column was still stalled north of town when daylight streaked the
sky. Up ahead, at an area known as Mount Airy, he could hear brisk musketry ﬁre.
Everything was so obscured by morning fog that he could only conjecture what
was happening. Mindful that his men bore just forty rounds apiece, he instructed
Pickering, “I am afraid General Sullivan is throwing away his ammunition. Ride
forward and tell him to preserve it.”38 The ﬁghting at Mount Airy took a savage turn
as Americans tried to avenge the unspeakable massacre at Paoli, shouting “Have at
the bloodhounds! Revenge Wayne’s affair!”39 After heavy casualties on both sides,
the British regiment ﬁnally retreated. When Washington reached the outskirts of
Germantown, he beheld a surreal sight: the British had torched the ﬁelds of buckwheat so that billowing smoke mingled with fog made the dawn “inﬁnitely dark,”
as he remembered.40 It was a hellish scene, with visibility restricted to thirty yards.
For once the fog of war was more than metaphorical. One American ofﬁcer remembered that “the smoke of the ﬁre of cannon and musketry, the smoke of several
ﬁelds of stubble, hay and other combustibles . . . made such a midnight darkness
that [a] great part of the time there was no discovering friend from foe.”41 When
Washington saw discarded British tents and cannon lying alongside the road, he
concluded that the ﬁrst phase of his operation was succeeding.
As he and his men advanced down the Germantown Road, they were startled by
a withering shower of musket balls. Through the mist, they perceived that the ﬁre
emanated from the windows of a three-story country house owned by Benjamin
Chew, which had been commandeered by one hundred British soldiers. Perched
on high ground, the stone house was made of locally quarried schist, starred with
mica; classical statuary dotted the grounds. The British had turned the Georgian
house into an impregnable fortress by bolting and barricading the door, shuttering
the many windows, and training their weapons on the Americans. For a moment,
it seemed the entire patriotic effort might founder on this single stubborn obstacle.
Washington summoned an impromptu conference of ofﬁcers on horseback. Most
favored cordoning off the Chew house and pushing on, leaving a single regiment
in the rear to subdue it. Then Henry Knox, speaking with resonant authority, cited
the military doctrine that, in hostile country, one never left a fortiﬁed castle in the
rear. This sounded like the sage voice of experience, and Washington made a snap
judgment to side with this minority view. It would prove a costly error.
Under orders from Washington, Lieutenant Colonel William Smith, carrying a
white ﬂag, approached the house with a demand for surrender. The British holed
up inside instantly shot and killed the colonel. At this point Washington assigned
three regiments to the thankless task of vanquishing the stout house. Knox ringed
it with four cannon and pummeled it at oblique angles, but the stone walls seemed
impervious. The prolonged attempt to take the Chew house held up part of Wash-

310

r! The Gener a l

ington’s column for half an hour and gave Howe’s men a chance to regroup. Small
squads of Americans kept darting toward the house, only to be pelted by British ﬁre
until the grounds were “strewn with a prodigious number of rebel dead,” said a British ofﬁcer.42 Those who tried to clamber through the windows were pierced with
bayonets. One Hessian ofﬁcer, viewing this slaughterhouse the next day, “counted
seventy-ﬁve dead Americans, some of whom lay stretched in the doorways, under
the tables and chairs, and under the windows . . . The rooms of the house were
riddled by cannonballs, and looked like a slaughter house because of the blood
splattered around.”43 Three American regiments managed to kill a risible four British soldiers. In a scathing judgment of this misstep, General Anthony Wayne later
wrote, “A windmill attack was made upon a house into which six light companies
had thrown themselves to avoid our bayonets. Our troops were deceived by this
attack, thinking it something formidable. They fell back to assist . . . confusion ensued and we ran away from the arms of victory open to receive us.”44
Belatedly, Washington heeded his dissenting ofﬁcers and told his army to move
on, leaving a small detachment behind. Cool as ever, shielded only by a pack of
aides, Washington again exposed himself to danger on his conspicuous white horse.
“With great concern I saw our brave commander-in-chief exposing himself to the
hottest ﬁre of the enemy,” recalled Sullivan, and “regard to my country obliged me
to ride to him and beg him to retire.”45 Washington brieﬂy withdrew to the rear,
only to ride forward again. At ﬁrst he imagined he was hearing the sound of British
soldiers retreating, with the enemy falling back “in the utmost confusion.”46 He was
so sanguine of victory that he nearly ordered his men to march to Philadelphia.
Washington remained unalterably convinced that, until bad weather reversed the
situation, the British had been on the brink of withdrawing from the battleﬁeld.
Unfortunately, the strange conditions had played havoc with his overly intricate
plan. Enveloped in fog and drifting smoke, the four columns found it hard to coordinate their actions. As so often with Washington’s strategies, the many interlocking
parts were hard to harmonize. American soldiers began ﬁring at one another in the
fog, precipitating a headlong retreat. False reports ﬂew about of an enemy force
in the rear, causing patriots to ﬂee a phantom enemy. Washington ordered Major
Benjamin Tallmadge to block these stampeding foot soldiers by lining up a row of
horses across the road, only to have the infantry run around or crawl desperately
beneath them. Washington shouted at his men, even struck at them with his sword,
as he had done at Kip’s Bay—to no effect. At the same time Greene’s men to the
north were falling back in disorderly fashion. The whole battle lasted less than three
hours.
By nine p.m. the American troops had regathered at Pennypacker’s Mill, twenty
miles away. By all accounts, they weren’t bowed or crestfallen. “They appeared to

Darkness Visible r! 3 1 1

me to be only sensible of a disappointment, not a defeat, and to be more displeased
at their retreating from Germantown than anxious to get to their rendezvous,” said
Thomas Paine.47 But the ﬁnal tally of battle—150 Americans killed, 520 wounded,
and 400 captured versus 70 British killed, 450 wounded, and 15 captured—decidedly
favored the British. “In a word,” Washington told his brother Jack, “it was a bloody
day. Would to heaven I could add that it had been a more fortunate one for us.”48
In a letter Howe complained of the torching of ﬂour mills and the suffering of
law-abiding citizens; on October 6 Washington replied in a sternly worded reproach.
He noted the “wanton and unnecessary depredations” committed by Howe’s own
army and the annihilation of Charlestown.49 On that same day, in a magniﬁcently
gallant gesture, he sent Howe a two-line letter about a dog found roaming the Germantown battleﬁeld. It said in full: “General Washington’s compliments to General
Howe. He does himself the pleasure to return [to] him a dog, which accidentally
fell into his hands, and by the inscription on the collar appears to belong to General
Howe.”50 How could the British portray such a man as a wild-eyed revolutionary?
Although Germantown ended in defeat, Washington had shown extraordinary
audacity. With grudging admiration, Howe conceded that he didn’t think “the enemy would have dared to approach after so recent a defeat as that at Brandywine.”51
The French foreign minister, the Count de Vergennes, who was pondering an alliance with America, claimed that “nothing struck him so much” as the Battle of Germantown.52 He was impressed that Washington, stuck with raw recruits, had fought
two consecutive battles against highly seasoned troops. In writing about the battle,
Washington stressed how bravely his men had fought and how narrowly victory
had eluded them. “Unfortunately, the day was overcast by a dark and heavy fog,”
he told one correspondent, “which prevented our columns from discovering each
other’s movement . . . Had it not been for this circumstance, I am fully persuaded
the enemy would have sustained a total defeat.”53 In narrating events to Hancock, he
disguised the fact that twice as many Americans as British had been killed. “Upon
the whole,” he wrote, “it may be said the day was rather unfortunate than injurious.
We sustained no material loss of men . . . and our troops, who are not in the least
dispirited by it, have gained what all young troops gain by being in actions.”54 Of
these assertions, the last came closest to the mark: the battle was the sort of defeat
that supplies a ﬁllip to the conﬁdence of the losing side. Now, Washington averred,
his men knew they could “confuse and rout even the ﬂower of the British army with
the greatest ease.”55 Congress seemed to agree with this generous assessment and
not only commended Washington for bravery but forged a medal in his honor. After the humiliating ﬂight of Congress from Philadelphia, the Battle of Germantown
had proved that the patriotic cause, if ailing, was far from moribund.

ch ap ter t w ent y-si x

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Rapping a Demigod over the Knuckles

Two w e e k s a f t e r the Battle of Germantown, George Washington digested
the bittersweet news that General Horatio Gates had trounced General John Burgoyne at Saratoga, capturing his army of ﬁve thousand men. Just when Washington
ached for a victory, his rival achieved a stunning conquest. A victory so incontestable made Gates the natural darling of Washington’s critics. Washington knew that
appearances would count heavily against him and that in the afterglow of Saratoga
Gates’s reputation would be gilded and his own recent defeats darkened. An anonymous pamphlet called The Thoughts of a Freeman made the rounds of Congress,
indicting Washington’s leadership with the damning remark that “the people of
America have been guilty of idolatry in making a man their God.”1
For all the adulation of Washington, a vocal, persistent minority of naysayers
took issue with his leadership. As assorted voices of discontent echoed in Congress,
these discussions were cloaked in secrecy. Writing to John Adams, Dr. Benjamin
Rush voiced what others privately thought. Gates, he said, had planned his campaign
with “wisdom and executed [it] with vigor and bravery,” making a telling contrast
with the hapless Washington, who had been “outgeneralled and twice beaten.”2 He
extolled Gates’s army as “a well-regulated family” while deriding Washington’s as
“an unformed mob.”3 The disgruntled Adams was relieved to see Gates victorious.
“If it had been [Washington],” he said, “idolatry and adulation would have been
unbounded, so excessive as to endanger our liberties.”4
With excellent antennae for rivals, Washington knew that Gates represented a
competitive threat to his leadership. In August Congress had arbitrated a feud between Philip Schuyler and Gates for control of the army’s northern department.

Rapping a Demigod over the Knuckles r! 3 13

Washington always felt warm friendship toward Schuyler, the undisputed favorite
of the New Yorkers. But the bearish Gates, who often dispensed with etiquette, appealed to the rough, egalitarian instincts of the New Englanders, and his ambition
only grew with success. In tactless letters, he accused Washington of everything
from trying to monopolize “every tent upon the continent” to waylaying uniforms
meant for his own regiments.5
In midsummer Schuyler had been blamed for the Ticonderoga debacle. In early
August Congress had asked Washington to choose the next head of the army’s
northern department, and with commendable restraint, he declined. He didn’t care
to stir up a hornet’s nest by meddling in the decision and sought to emphasize
civilian control of the military. After all, it was Washington’s reﬂexive restraint in
seeking power that had enabled him to exercise so much of it. In this case, however,
his neutrality paved the way for Congress to elect Gates. By ceding this power to
Congress, Washington allowed his scheming rival to nourish the fantasy that he
held an equal and independent command and was beholden only to Congress.
Washington performed another signal service for Gates that summer. Alarmed
by Burgoyne’s steady progress south from Canada, Washington grew convinced
that only an “active, spirited ofﬁcer” could stop him, and he recommended that
General Benedict Arnold assist Gates: “He is active, judicious, and brave, and an
ofﬁcer in whom the militia will repose great conﬁdence.”6 Washington also steered
Daniel Morgan and ﬁve hundred sharpshooters to Gates. Many assigned the true
credit for Saratoga to the impetuous Arnold, who had fought “inspired by the fury
of a demon,” one eyewitness said, suffering a severe gash in one leg from a musket
ball.7 Despite Arnold’s contribution, Gates grew puffed up with his own power after
the victory. If “old England is not by this taught a lesson of humility,” he told his
wife, “then she is an obstinate old slut.”8
On October 15 Washington announced to his troops Gates’s early victory at
Saratoga, the Battle of Bemis Heights. His general orders suggest that he felt selfconscious about a possible comparison with his own performance. While he hailed
“the troops under the command of General Gates,” he also pointedly expressed
hope that his own troops would prove “at least equal to their northern brethren in
brave and intrepid exertions.”9 In a gesture pregnant with ominous implications,
Gates didn’t notify Washington directly of his victory. Instead, to underscore his
autonomous command, he dispatched his ﬂamboyant young aide, Colonel James
Wilkinson, to apprise Congress. On October 18 Washington was informed of Burgoyne’s surrender by a brief message from Governor George Clinton of New York.
Charles Willson Peale was painting Washington’s portrait when the news came.
“Ah,” Washington said tonelessly, reading the dispatch with an impassive face as
he sat on the edge of a bed. “Burgoyne is defeated.”10 The unﬂappable Washington

31 4

r! The Gener a l

then continued with the session as if nothing had happened. It was a classic performance: he exercised the greatest self-control when roiled by the most unruly
emotions. In public he tried hard to smile, but his private letters show he was saddened as well as gladdened by the news. “Let every face brighten and every heart
expand with grateful joy and praise to the supreme disposer of all events,” he told
his troops, and detonated thirteen cannon to celebrate the victory.11
All the while Washington quietly steamed that Gates hadn’t yet written to him.
On October 24, when writing to John Hancock about a shortage of shoes and blankets, he confessed, “I am, and have been, waiting with the most anxious impatience
for a conﬁrmation of Gen[era]l Burgoyne’s surrender. I have received no further intelligence respecting it.”12 Characteristically, he saved the most explosive lines until
the end, trying to pass them off as an afterthought. Also characteristically, he waited
nearly a week to complain and didn’t mention Gates by name, as if he didn’t want
to tip his hand. In reply, Hancock, then stepping down as president of Congress,
told Washington, “I have not as yet heard a word from Gen[era]l Gates . . . and his
army. Should the agreeable news reach” him before he left town, he promised, he
would forward it to Washington.13 It was a bizarre situation: after one week, the
outgoing president of the Continental Congress and the commander in chief still
hadn’t heard from Horatio Gates about the war’s single most important development. When Washington received the articles of capitulation, signed by Burgoyne,
they came via Israel Putnam. “As I have not rec[eive]d a single line from Gen[era]l
Gates, I do not know what steps he is taking with the army under his command and
therefore cannot advise what is most proper to be done in your quarter,” Washington told Putnam, betraying considerable pent-up frustration.14 Two days later he
expressed to Richard Henry Lee his bitterness about Gates’s snub and said that, for
a time, he actually began to doubt that the Saratoga victory had taken place.
During this period Washington was camped at a farmhouse in Whitemarsh,
Pennsylvania, a place so cramped that his aides slept on the ﬂoor before the ﬁreplace and shared one tin plate. On November 2 Gates at last deigned to send him
a short note, saying he was returning Colonel Morgan and his band of marksmen.
Clearly, Gates had heard through the grapevine that Washington was agitated about
not having heard from him and disposed of the matter in a cavalier line: “I am conﬁdent Your Excellency has long ago received all the good news from this quarter.”15
Never one to react on the spot, Washington bided his time to take his revenge upon
Horatio Gates.
If he was elated by Burgoyne’s capture, Washington also believed that many
circumstances had favored Gates. The mid-Atlantic states, where Washington operated, was rife with Tories, while thousands of militiamen in upstate New York
had harassed Burgoyne as his doomed soldiers struggled down the Hudson Valley.

Rapping a Demigod over the Knuckles r! 3 15

“How different our case!” Washington complained, noting “the disaffection of [a]
great part of the inhabitants of this state [and] the languor of others.”16 Washington
had also never faced an enemy in Burgoyne’s vulnerable situation of being dangerously cut off from supply lines. General Howe had never ranged far from his
base in New York or other seaboard ports where he could fall back on British naval superiority, depriving Washington of a chance to strike a lethal blow. Still licking his wounds, Washington told Patrick Henry that he had been forced to defend
Philadelphia “with less numbers than composed the army of my antagonist,” even
though popular opinion had wrongly attributed to him twice as many men.17 Even
Martha Washington heaved a weary sigh at the rank injustice of it all. Although
she expressed “unspeakable pleasure” at Burgoyne’s surrender, she added, “Would
bountiful providence aim a like stroke at Gen[era]l Howe, the measure of my happiness would be complete.”18
The Saratoga victory had a powerful resonance in European courts. Horace Walpole said that George III “fell into agonies” when he absorbed the terrible news.19
Among the opposition party in Parliament, the defeat hardened resistance to approving more money and troops for a costly, faraway war. The repercussions were no less
momentous in France. When Jonathan Loring Austin, fresh from America, rode up
to Benjamin Franklin in Paris in early December, the elderly statesman gazed up at
the young man on horseback and asked, “Sir, is Philadelphia taken?” “Yes, sir,” replied
Austin. Crestfallen, Franklin started to lumber off with a heavy heart. “But, sir, I have
greater news than that,” Austin shouted after him. “General Burgoyne and his whole
army are prisoners of war!”20 An ecstatic Franklin used this unexpected news as his
most potent argument in luring France into the war on the American side.
Since Washington believed there was a signiﬁcant numerical imbalance between
his forces in Pennsylvania and those of Gates in upstate New York, he sent Alexander
Hamilton streaking off toward Albany to request—and if necessary, demand—that
Gates direct a portion of his troops southward to bolster Washington’s army. Washington needed these troops to shore up forts along the Delaware, which might now
be easy prey for Howe’s army. He also reasoned that, with Burgoyne subdued, Gates
required fewer troops. Hamilton’s mission was a delicate one: these were heady days
for the vainglorious Gates, who might well suspect that Washington was simply
trying to steal his thunder, the better to vie with him for control of the Continental
Army. Washington’s choice of Hamilton as his emissary was astounding testimony
to his faith in the young West Indian. Hamilton would have to ride at a breakneck
pace, covering three hundred miles to Albany in ﬁve days, and he would need all
the wit, toughness, and self-assurance at his disposal to stand up to Gates. It may
have pleased Washington to tweak Gates’s vanity by sending a twenty-two-year-old
aide-de-camp to lay down the law to him.

316

r! The Gener a l

On October 30 Washington handed Hamilton his marching orders, which stipulated that he should inform Gates of “the absolute necessity that there is for his
detaching a very considerable part of the army at present under his command to
the reinforcement of this.”21 When Hamilton arrived in Albany, Gates was predictably outraged to have to bargain with the youthful aide. That Hamilton regarded
Gates as craven and inept didn’t help matters. In a letter drafted but never sent to
Washington, Gates fumed, “Although it is customary and even absolutely necessary to direct implicit obedience to be paid to the verbal orders of aides-de-camp
in action . . . yet I believe it is never practiced to delegate that dictatorial power
to one aide-camp sent to an army 300 miles distant.”22 Gates, in a cantankerous
mood, insisted to Hamilton that he needed all his troops in case Sir Henry Clinton
moved up the Hudson River. He seemed emboldened by his newly won renown.
To Washington, Hamilton reported, “I found insuperable inconveniences in acting
diametrically opposite to the opinion of a gentleman whose successes have raised
him to the highest importance.”23 In a masterly performance, however, and after
much wrangling, Hamilton extracted two brigades from the reluctant Gates.
The juxtaposition of Gates’s victory and Washington’s defeats crystallized
congressional discontent with the latter’s leadership. The rush of battles turned
Congress into an assembly of would-be generals, determined to run the war by resolutions. There had always been sotto voce grumbling about Washington’s military
ability, but now serious questions arose as to whether he was up to the job. Henry
Laurens told his son John that the assembly buzzed with detractors saying that “our
army is under no regulations or discipline” and that Washington had failed to stem
desertions or adequately provision his men.24 Lafayette warned Washington of “stupid men” in Congress “who, without knowing a single word about war, undertake
to judge you, to make ridiculous comparisons; they are infatuated with Gates.”25
The discontent crested in October when Washington got wind of the rumored
promotion to major general of Brigadier Thomas Conway. An engraving of Conway shows a man with a cool, haughty air. His small chin, tightly pursed lips, and
alert eyes give him a petulant expression. Born in Ireland, he had been an ofﬁcer in
the French Army but, unlike Lafayette, was a self-aggrandizing fortune hunter. For
him, the Continental Army was a convenient rung to grasp in clambering up the
military hierarchy in France. Nathanael Greene saw him as “a man of much intrigue
and little judgment” who joined the Continental Army to cash in on the ﬁght.26 “I
freely own to you it was partly with a view of obtaining sooner the rank of brigadier
in the French army that I have joined” the American army, Conway conceded to
another ofﬁcer that January.27 An excellent judge of men, Washington recoiled from
this self-promoting braggart and may also have learned that the sharp-tongued
Irishman had denigrated him after Brandywine. “No man was more a gentleman

Rapping a Demigod over the Knuckles r! 3 1 7

than General Washington or appeared to more advantage at his table . . . but as to
his talents for the command of an army, they were miserable indeed” was Conway’s
verdict.28 Some of those skeptical of Washington’s ability gravitated to Conway.
“He seems to possess [General] Lee’s knowledge and experience without any of his
oddities and vices,” Dr. Benjamin Rush declared. “He is, moreover, the idol of the
whole army.”29
Washington was incensed to learn about Conway’s impending promotion, especially since he would be jumped over twenty more senior brigadiers. He had
been dismayed by Conway’s behavior at Germantown, accusing him of deserting
his men, and now he departed from his usual practice of staying aloof from congressional deliberations. He wrote to Richard Henry Lee that Conway’s promotion
would “be as unfortunate a measure as ever was adopted.”30 Washington seldom
spoke so brusquely, but there was more. “General Conway’s merit then as an ofﬁcer,
and his importance in this army, exists more in his own imagination than in reality.
For it is a maxim with him to leave no service of his untold.”31 Most shocking of
all, Washington seemed ready to tender his own resignation. “To sum up the whole,
I have been a slave to the service . . . but it will be impossible for me to be of any
further service, if such insuperable difﬁculties are thrown in my way.”32 Washington
was showing how adroit he could be at inﬁghting, how skillful in suppressing lurking challenges to his supremacy. In many ways, he was more sure-footed in contesting political than military threats. He knew that power held in reserve—power
deployed ﬁrmly but reluctantly—was always the most effective form. On October
20 Richard Henry Lee assured Washington that Conway would never be bumped
up to major general, but Lee, a secret critic of Washington himself, disclosed something else disturbing: Congress intended to overhaul the Board of War, switching it
from a legislative committee to an executive agency, staffed by general ofﬁcers who
would supervise the military. This news came as a revelation to Washington, who
could only regard it as a powerful rebuke.
Amid an atmosphere of rampant suspicion, Washington received fresh proof
that enemies in high places conspired against him. As mentioned, Gates had assigned his young aide James Wilkinson to carry the news of Saratoga to Congress.
Later described by Washington as “lively, sensible, pompous, and ambitious,”
Wilkinson had a bombastic addiction to storytelling.33 En route to Congress, this
indiscreet young man paused in Reading, Pennsylvania, where he met with an aide
to Lord Stirling and regaled him with stories of Gates’s savage comments about
Washington’s actions at Brandywine Creek. He also showed him an inﬂammatory
line that General Conway had written to General Gates, indicting Washington’s
leadership. “Heaven has been determined to save your country,” Conway wrote, “or
a weak general and bad councillors would have ruined it.”34 Lord Stirling, loyal to

318

r! The Gener a l

Washington, passed along this offensive comment to him, remarking that “such
wicked duplicity of conduct I shall always think it my duty to detect.”35 Washington
was stunned to see the remark, which suggested blatant collusion between the two
generals to blacken his name.
In meeting the threat, Washington reverted to his favorite technique, earlier
used with Joseph Reed: sending an incriminating document to its author without
comment. He would betray as little as possible of what he knew so as to let the
guilty party incriminate himself. In sending Conway the line, Washington later said,
he intended to convey “that I was not unapprised of his intriguing disposition.”36
Conway countered with a cagey note, telling Washington that he was “willing that
my original letter to General Gates should be handed to you. This, I trust, will
convince you of my way of thinking.”37 Of course, he didn’t specify what his way of
thinking was. On November 16, while avoiding any mention of their feud, Conway
sent Washington a curt announcement: “The hopes and appearance of a French
war, along with some other reasons, have induc[e]d me to send my resignation to
Congress.”38 Since the resignation wasn’t accepted, internecine warfare between the
two men persisted.
When Washington confronted Gates about the letter, the latter described himself
as “inexpressibly distressed” by the news, said he kept his papers closely guarded,
and wondered about the identity of “the villain that has played me this treacherous trick.”39 Later on he contended the offending paragraph was a forgery. It didn’t
seem to occur to him that his own careless aide had caused the leak. Turning the
tables on Washington, Gates even came up with a far-fetched accusation: that Alexander Hamilton, during his recent diplomatic mission, had purloined the papers
from his ﬁles. “Those letters have been stealingly copied,” Gates told Washington,
turning himself into the injured party. “Crimes of that magnitude ought not to remain unpunished.”40 To Gates’s mortiﬁcation, Washington revealed that the culprit
was Gates’s own personal aide, the talkative James Wilkinson.
A principal instigator in the move to replace Washington was his former aide
Thomas Mifﬂin, now a general. A portrait of Mifﬂin shows a man full of personality and high spirits who was very direct in manner. Even though Washington had
befriended him and named him one of his initial aides, the handsome, eloquent
Mifﬂin harbored a secret animosity toward his patron. Washington learned of his
treachery with consternation. “I have never seen any stroke of ill fortune affect the
general in the manner that this dirty underhand dealing has done,” his aide Tench
Tilghman wrote.41 Washington had already developed doubts about Mifﬂin, whom
he thought had exploited his job as quartermaster general for personal proﬁt, and
he later wrote about him with biting sarcasm as an opportunistic, fair-weather
friend.

Rapping a Demigod over the Knuckles r! 3 19

Although he had known and liked Conway in France, Lafayette had concluded
that he was a menace to his mentor. In late November Lafayette warned Washington that certain elements in Congress “are infatuated with Gates . . . and believe
that attacking is the only thing necessary to conquer.”42 Lafayette didn’t exaggerate.
Whatever inhibitions had existed about defaming Washington’s name had now disappeared. “Thousands of lives and millions of property are yearly sacriﬁced to the
insufﬁciency of our Commander-in-Chief,” Pennsylvania attorney general Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant wrote to Massachusetts congressman James Lovell. “Two
battles he has lost for us by two such blunders as might have disgraced a soldier of
three months standing.”43 Benjamin Rush and Richard Henry Lee lent open or covert support to the attacks on Washington, while John Adams, for all his dyspeptic
squawking, retained residual admiration for the commander in chief and never
went so far as to try to oust him.
In late November Congress reorganized the Board of War, and Richard Henry
Lee saw to it that Mifﬂin was named to it. Mifﬂin then conﬁrmed Washington’s
worst fears by securing the appointment of Horatio Gates as its president. Gates
would retain his rank as major general and gain a supervisory role over Washington. Leaving little doubt that he wanted Gates to usurp Washington’s authority,
Congressman Lovell told him, “We want you in different places . . . We want you
most near Germantown.”44 Congress dealt out further punishment to Washington.
When he protested that his men were famished, Congress passed a snide resolution,
chastising him for excessive “delicacy in exerting military authority” to requisition
goods from local citizens.45 As Lovell gloated to Samuel Adams, the resolution “was
meant to rap a demi-G[od] over the knuckles.”46
A still heavier blow lay in the ofﬁng. On December 13 the Board of War created
an inspection system to curb desertions, ensure efﬁcient use of public property, and
institute army drills. It named none other than Thomas Conway as inspector general and, directly ﬂouting Washington’s plea, boosted his rank to major general. Not
only was Conway vested with sweeping powers, he would be exempt from Washington’s immediate supervision. It was hard to imagine a more calculated insult
against the commander in chief. Washington didn’t learn of the decision until two
weeks later, when Conway materialized at Valley Forge to announce his appointment. Although we don’t know his exact words, Washington was always articulate
when forced to break silence on a painful subject. To Conway’s consternation, he
received him with what he later called “ceremonious civility,” an icy correctness
that people found very unsettling. Not mincing words, he told Conway that his
appointment would outrage more senior brigadiers in the army and that Conway
couldn’t inspect anything until he had explicit instructions from Congress. Conway
protested that he was “coolly received” at Valley Forge and complained to Washing-

32 0

r! The Gener a l

ton of being greeted in such a manner “as I never met with before from any general
during the course of thirty years in a very respectable army.”47 Washington dug in
his heels in self-defense: “That I did not receive him in the language of a warm and
cordial friend, I readily confess the charge,” he told Henry Laurens, who was now
president of Congress. “I did not, nor shall I ever, till I am capable of the arts of
dissimulation.”48
Conway had never really responded to Washington about the notorious note
written to Gates. Amid his frigid reception at Valley Forge, he sent Washington an
insolent letter that ﬂaunted his true colors. “I understand that your aversion to me
is owing to the letter I wrote to General Gates,” Conway began. He then said that
subalterns in European armies freely gave their opinions of their generals, “but I
never heard that the least notice was taken of these letters. Must such an odious
and tyrannical inquisition begin in this country?” In conclusion, Conway said that
“since you cannot bear the sight of me in your camp, I am very ready to go wherever Congress thinks proper and even to France.”49 The normally self-contained
Washington was so infuriated by Conway’s conduct that John Laurens thought that
in private life Washington might have contemplated a duel. “It is such an affront,”
young Laurens told his father, “as Conway would never have dared to offer if the
general’s situation had not assured him of the impossibility of its being revenged in
a private way.”50 Laurens was mistaken in one thing: Washington considered dueling an outmoded form of chivalry. In the end the Board of War desisted from trying
to impose Conway on Washington, and he was assigned to join General McDougall
in New York.
The various efforts of Gates, Conway, Mifﬂin, et al. to discredit and even depose
Washington have been known to history as the Conway Cabal. Cabal is much too
strong a word for this loosely organized network of foes. In later years Washington
conﬁrmed that he thought an “attempt was made by a party in Congress to supplant me in that command,” and he sketched out its contours thus: “It appeared,
in general, that General Gates was to be exalted on the ruin of my reputation and
inﬂuence . . . General Mifﬂin, it is commonly supposed, bore the second part in the
cabal, and General Conway, I know, was a very active and malignant partisan. But
I have good reasons to believe that their machinations have recoiled most sensibly
upon themselves.”51 The episode showed that, whatever Washington’s demerits as
a military man, he was a consummate political inﬁghter. With command of his
tongue and temper, he had the supreme temperament for leadership compared to
his scheming rivals. It was perhaps less his military skills than his character that
eclipsed all competitors. Washington was digniﬁed, circumspect, and upright,
whereas his enemies seemed petty and skulking. However thin-skinned he was, he
never doubted the need for legitimate criticism and contested only the devious

Rapping a Demigod over the Knuckles r! 321

methods of opponents. Calling criticism of error “the prerogative of freemen,” he
still deplored such a “secret, insidious attempt . . . to wound my reputation!”52 For
the rest of the war, he didn’t allow these things to cloud his judgment, never told
tales indiscreetly, and conﬁned his opinions of intramural feuding to a small circle
of trusted intimates, lest such inﬁghting demoralize his army.
At moments Washington viewed the controversy with philosophic resignation
and wondered whether he should return to Mount Vernon. After receiving a conﬁdential warning from the Reverend William Gordon that a faction was plotting to
install Charles Lee in his stead, Washington replied ruefully: “So soon then as the
public gets dissatisﬁed with my services, or a person is found better qualiﬁed to
answer her expectation, I shall quit the helm with as much satisfaction and retire to
a private station with as much content as ever the wearied pilgrim felt upon his safe
arrival in the Holy Land.”53 He didn’t need to worry. The so-called Conway Cabal
taught people that Washington was tough and crafty in defending his terrain and
that they tangled with him at their peril. Henceforth anyone who underestimated
George Washington lived to regret the error. His skillful treatment of the “cabal”
silenced his harshest critics, leaving him in unquestioned command of the Continental Army. The end of this war among Washington’s generals augured well for the
larger war against the British.
It should be said that the need to solidify Washington’s position and humble
his enemies had a political logic. With the possible exception of the Continental
Congress, the Continental Army was the purest expression of the new, still inchoate
country, a working laboratory for melding together citizen-soldiers from various
states and creating a composite American identity. Washington personiﬁed that
army and was therefore the main unifying ﬁgure in the war. John Adams regarded
this as the main reason why people tolerated his defeats and overlooked his errors.
To Dr. Benjamin Rush, he later pontiﬁcated: “There was a time when northern,
middle, and southern statesmen . . . expressly agreed to blow the trumpet of panegyric in concert to cover and dissemble all faults and errors; to represent every
defeat as a victory and every retreat as an advancement to make that character
[Washington] popular and fashionable with all parties in all places and with all
persons, as a center of union, as the central stone in the geometrical arch. There you
have the revelation of the whole mystery.”54
In the last analysis, Washington’s triumph over the troublesome Gates, Mifﬂin,
and Conway was total. For unity’s sake, he was unfailingly polite to Gates: “I made a
point of treating Gen[era]l Gates with all the attention and cordiality in my power,
as well from a sincere desire of harmony as from an unwillingness to give any cause
of triumph to our enemies.”55 Gates’s defects as a general would become glaring
in time. Thomas Mifﬂin resigned as quartermaster general amid charges of mis-

322

r! The Gener a l

management. The most complete triumph came over Thomas Conway, who plied
Congress with so many abusive letters and threatened to resign so often that delegates were ﬁnally pleased to accept his resignation in April 1778. Conway refused to
muzzle his criticism of Washington, however, which led him in July into a duel with
John Cadwalader, a stalwart Washington defender. Cadwalader shot Conway in the
mouth and neck and is supposed to have boasted as he stared down at his bleeding
foe, “I have stopped the damned rascal’s lying anyway.”56 With incredible resilience,
Conway recuperated from these wounds and sent Washington a chastened note
before he returned to France. “I ﬁnd myself just able to hold the pen during a few
minutes,” the convalescent soldier wrote, “and take this opportunity of expressing
my sincere grief for having done, written, or said anything disagreeable to Your
Excellency. My career will soon be over. Therefore justice and truth prompt me to
declare my last sentiments. You are, in my eyes, the great and the good man. May
you long enjoy the love, veneration, and esteem of these states whose liberties you
have asserted by your virtues.”57

ch ap ter t w ent y-sev en

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

A Dreary Kind of Place

I n D e c e m be r 17 7 7 General William Howe eased into comfortable winter quarters in Philadelphia. For British ofﬁcers in the eighteenth century, warfare remained
a seasonal business, and they saw no reason to sacriﬁce unduly as cold winds blew.
“Assemblies, concerts, comedies, clubs, and the like make us forget that there is
any war, save that it is a capital joke,” wrote a Hessian captain, reﬂecting the overly
conﬁdent attitude that prevailed among British and Hessian ofﬁcers after the Brandywine and Germantown victories.1
George Washington struggled with the bafﬂing question of where to house his
vagabond, threadbare army during the frigid months ahead. The specter of a harsh
winter was alarming: four thousand men lacked a single blanket. If Washington
withdrew farther into Pennsylvania’s interior, his army might be secure, but the
area already teemed with patriotic refugees from Philadelphia. Such a move would
also allow Howe’s men to scavenge the countryside outside Philadelphia and batten
freely off local farms. Further complicating his decision was that he had to ensure
the safety of two homeless legislatures, now stranded in exile: the Continental Congress in York and the Pennsylvania legislature in Lancaster. “I assure you, sir,” he
told Henry Laurens, as he puzzled over the conundrum, “no circumstance in the
course of the present contest, or in my whole life, has employed more of my reﬂection . . . than in what manner . . . to dispose of the army during the winter.”2
Washington opted for a spot that was fated to become hallowed ground: Valley
Forge, a windswept plateau, twenty miles northwest of Philadelphia, that he would
depict as “a dreary kind of place and uncomfortably provided.”3 With its open, rolling ﬁelds and woods, the encampment stood a day’s march from Howe’s army and

32 4

r! The Gener a l

was therefore safe from surprise raids. In theory, it sounded like a promising place.
Its high ridges would afford excellent defensive positions; its nearby woods would
supply plentiful timber for fuel and construction; abundant local agriculture would
nourish his army; and the nearby Schuylkill River and Valley Creek would provide
pure water. What should have been an ideal resting place became instead a scene of
harrowing misery.
Even before Washington arrived there, the Pennsylvania legislature had the
cheek to criticize him for taking his men into winter camp, as if he were retiring
into plush quarters. “I can assure those gentlemen,” Washington wrote testily, “that
it is a much easier and less distressing thing to draw remonstrances in a comfortable room by a good ﬁreside than to occupy a cold bleak hill and sleep under frost
and snow without clothes or blankets. However, although they seem to have little
feeling for the naked, distressed soldiers, I feel superabundantly for them and from
my soul pity those miseries which it is neither in my power to relieve or prevent.”4
This was a new voice for Washington, reﬂecting a profound solidarity with his men
that went beyond Revolutionary ideology and arose from the special camaraderie
of shared suffering.
Already on the icy road to Valley Forge, Washington had spotted streaks of blood
from his barefoot men, portending things to come. He slept in the upstairs chamber
of a compact, two-story stone mill house built by Isaac Potts, whose iron forges lent
the place its name. The commander in chief worked in a modest downstairs room
with a ﬁreplace. So meticulous was Washington in his respect for private property
that he rented the quarters instead of seizing them. The premises were so cramped
that one observer recalled Washington’s family as “exceedingly pinched for room.”5
Many aides slept jammed together on the ﬂoor downstairs. To provide extra space,
Washington added an adjoining log cabin for meals.
With the treasury bankrupt, Washington experienced a grim foreboding that
this winter would mandate stringency far beyond anything yet endured. In general orders for December 17, he suggested that the impending winter might call for
preternatural strength and vowed to “share in the hardship and partake of every inconvenience” with his men.6 Whatever his failings as a general, Washington’s moral
strength held the shaky army together. His position transcended that of a mere general, having taken on a paternal dimension. “The people of America look up to you
as their father,” Henry Knox told him, “and into your hands they entrust their all,
fully conﬁdent of every exertion on your part for their security and happiness.”7
The ﬁrst order of business, Washington knew, was to erect warm, dry huts. To set
an example, he slept in a tent as the camp succumbed to a building craze; regiments
broken into squads of twelve soldiers chopped wood and made huts for themselves.
Cleverly, Washington injected a competitive element into the operation: he would

A Dreary Kind of Place r! 325

pay twelve dollars to the squad that completed the ﬁrst hut and a hundred dollars
to anyone who devised a way to roof these structures without consuming scarce
wood. As the men hewed their houses with dull ax blades, they nonetheless seemed
cheerful and hardy. “I was there when the army ﬁrst began to build huts,” wrote
Thomas Paine. “They appeared to me like a family of beavers: everyone busy, some
carrying logs, others mud, and the rest fastening them together.”8 Within a month
a makeshift village, more than two thousand log cabins in all, materialized from
the havoc.
Forming parallel avenues, the huts were small, dark, and claustrophobic; a
dozen men could be squashed into spaces measuring fourteen by sixteen feet, with
only six and a half feet of headroom. Narrow bunks, stacked in triple rows, stood
on either side of the door. Many soldiers draped tents over their huts to keep at bay
the sharp wintry blasts. While ofﬁcers had the luxury of wooden ﬂoors, ordinary
soldiers slept on dank earth. As more trees were felled for shelter and ﬁrewood, the
campgrounds grew foul and slippery with mud. Dead horses and their entrails lay
decomposing everywhere, emitting a putrid stench into the winter air.
For all its esprit de corps, the Continental Army was soon reduced to a ghastly
state, its soldiers resembling a horde of unkempt beggars. Men dined on food called
“ﬁre cakes,” crude concoctions of ﬂour and water that were cooked on hot stones.
Some days they couldn’t scrape together any food at all. Dr. Albigence Waldo of
Connecticut limned the horror:
Poor food—hard lodging—cold weather—fatigue—nasty clothes—nasty cookery—
vomit half my time—smoke out of my senses—the devil’s in it—I can’t endure it . . .
There comes a bowl of beef soup—full of burnt leaves and dirt, sickish enough to
make a Hector spew . . . There comes a soldier, his bare feet are seen through his
worn-out shoes, his legs nearly naked from the tattered remains of an only pair of
stockings; his breeches not sufﬁcient to cover his nakedness; his shirt hanging in
strings; his hair disheveled; his face meager; his whole appearance pictures a person
forsaken and discouraged.9

The universal misery didn’t spare ofﬁcers, who suffered along with their men. One
Frenchman strolling through camp caught glimpses of soldiers who “were using
as cloaks and overcoats woollen blankets similar to those worn by the patients in
our French hospitals. I realized a little later that those were ofﬁcers and generals.”10
Some desperate soldiers tore canvas strips from tents to cobble together primitive shirts or shoes. The misery reached straight into Washington’s headquarters. “I
cannot get as much cloth as will make clothes for my servants,” Washington wrote,
“notwithstanding that one of them that attends my person and table is indecently

32 6

r! The Gener a l

and most shamefully naked.”11 One wonders whether this referred to the trusted
Billy Lee. Exacerbating the clothing shortage was a dearth of wagons. To cart supplies around camp, men were harnessed to carriages like draft animals, saddled
with yokes. Hoping to ameliorate the situation, Congress, at Washington’s behest,
soon appointed Nathanael Greene as the new quartermaster general, an ofﬁce that
had been negligently administered by Thomas Mifﬂin. At ﬁrst Greene resisted the
appointment, grumbling that “nobody ever heard of a quartermaster in history,”
but he submitted to his fate and brilliantly helped the Continental Army avoid starvation as he redeemed his own reputation.12
Part of Washington’s inspirational power at Valley Forge came from his steady
presence, as he projected leadership in nonverbal ways that are hard for posterity to
re-create. Even contemporaries found it difﬁcult to convey the essence of his calm
grandeur. “I cannot describe the impression that the ﬁrst sight of that great man
made upon me,” said one Frenchman. “I could not keep my eyes from that imposing countenance: grave yet not severe; affable without familiarity. Its predominant
expression was calm dignity, through which you could trace the strong feelings of
the patriot and discern the father as well as the commander of his soldiers.”13
One of the most durable images of Washington at Valley Forge is likely invented.
After his death Parson Mason Weems, who fabricated the canard about the cherry
tree, told of Washington praying in a snowy glade. A well-known image of Washington, done by Paul Weber and entitled George Washington in Prayer at Valley Forge,
depicts Washington praying on his knees, his left hand over his heart and his open
right hand at his side, pointing to the earth. Washington’s upturned face catches a
shaft of celestial light. The image seems designed to meld religion and politics by
converting the uniformed Washington into a humble supplicant of the Lord. The
reason to doubt the story’s veracity is not Washington’s lack of faith but the typically private nature of his devotions. He would never have prayed so ostentatiously
outdoors, where soldiers could have stumbled upon him.
While Washington was somewhat insulated from the camp’s noisome squalor in
the Potts house, the despondent men ventilated their grievances. As he strode past
the huts, he heard them grumbling inside, “No bread, no soldier!”14 On better days,
they would burst into a patriotic tune called “War and Washington.”15 At one point
a knot of protesters descended on his ofﬁce in what must have seemed a mutinous
act. Washington undoubtedly bristled at their disruptive presence. Nonetheless,
when the men said they had come to make sure Washington understood their suffering, he reacted sympathetically. This man of patrician tastes had learned to value
ordinary soldiers. “Naked and starving as they are,” he wrote, “we cannot enough
admire the incomparable patience and ﬁdelity of the soldiery.”16
That the Continental Army did not disintegrate or revolt en masse at Valley

A Dreary Kind of Place r! 327

Forge is simply astonishing. When Dr. Benjamin Rush toured the camp, General
Sullivan lectured him, “Sir, this is not an army—it is a mob.”17 It shows the conﬁdence that Washington produced in his men that they stuck by him in this forlorn
place. Nor did he achieve popularity by coddling anyone, for he inﬂicted severe
ﬂoggings on men caught stealing food. “The culprit being securely lashed to a tree
or post receives on his naked back the number of lashes assigned to him by a whip
formed of several small knotted cords, which sometimes cut through his skin at every stroke,” wrote Dr. James Thacher, who described how men survived this ordeal
by biting on lead bullets—the origin of the term “biting the bullet.”18 Governed by
a powerful moral code and determined to maintain some semblance of military
discipline amid woeful conditions, Washington perpetuated his ban on cards, dice,
and other forms of gambling.
Perhaps most frightful at Valley Forge were the rampant diseases that leveled 30
percent of the men at any given time. Many underwent amputations as their legs
and feet turned black from frostbite. Owing to pervasive malnutrition, ﬁlthy conditions, and exposure to cold, scourges such as typhus, typhoid fever, pneumonia,
dysentery, and scurvy grew commonplace. Dr. Benjamin Rush deplored the army
hospitals, located outside the camp, as gruesome sties, overcrowded with inmates
“shivering with cold upon the ﬂoors without a blanket to cover them, calling for
ﬁre, for water, for suitable food, and for medicines—and calling in vain.”19 By winter’s end, two thousand men had perished at Valley Forge, mostly from disease and
many of them in the warm spring months. “Happily, the real condition of Washington was not well understood by Sir William Howe,” wrote John Marshall, “and the
characteristic attention of that ofﬁcer [i.e., Washington] to the lives and comfort of
his troops saved the American army.”20
On December 23, with the situation deteriorating daily, Washington rushed
an urgent message to Henry Laurens, warning that the Continental Army would
“starve, dissolve, or disperse” without more food. To illustrate, he related a frightening anecdote of an incident the day before when he had ordered his soldiers to
pounce on British soldiers scouring the countryside for forage. The operation was
scuttled because his men were too enervated from lack of food to carry out the mission. Washington testiﬁed that there was “not a single hoof of any kind to slaughter
and not more than 25 bar[re]ls of ﬂour!” He made the astonishing prediction that
“three or four days [of] bad weather would prove our destruction.”21 In heartbreaking fashion, he evoked an army devoid of soap; men with one shirt, half a shirt, or
no shirt at all; nearly three thousand unﬁt for duty for lack of shoes; and men who
passed sleepless nights, crouched by the ﬁre, for want of blankets.
Ever since the war started, Washington had saved his laments for Congress, even
though much of the real power resided with the states. But he was reluctant to

32 8

r! The Gener a l

appeal to the states, lest he seem to circumvent Congress or violate military subordination to civilian control. Now, in desperation, he began to issue circulars to
the states, which gave him license to rail against the rickety political structure that
hampered his army. That November Congress had completed drafting the Articles
of Confederation, creating a loose confederacy of states with a notably weak central
government. Dreading the hobgoblin of concentrated power, states shrank from
levying taxes and introducing other measures to aid the federal war effort. Washington was dismayed that the states now shipped off their mediocrities to Congress
while more able men stayed home “framing constitutions, providing laws, and ﬁlling [state] ofﬁces.”22 A leitmotif of his wartime letters was that the shortsighted
states would come to ruin without an effective central government. Increasingly
Washington took a scathing view of lax congressional leadership.
The Christmas dinner at Valley Forge was an austere one for Washington and
his military family, who shared a frugal collation of mutton, potatoes, cabbage, and
crusts of bread, accompanied by water. The liquor shortage produced the worst
grumbling among the ofﬁcers. Sometime around the Battle of Brandywine, Washington had lost his baggage, with its complement of plates, dishes, and kitchen
utensils, and he now made do with a single spoon. He experienced no self-pity,
however, so woebegone was the comparative plight of his men. On the last day of
the year, he compressed the suffering of Valley Forge into a single piercing cry: “Our
sick naked, our well naked, our unfortunate men in captivity naked!”23
What made Valley Forge so bitterly disenchanting for Washington was that
selﬁshness among the citizenry seemed to outweigh patriotic fervor. In choosing
winter quarters at Valley Forge, he had surmised, correctly, that the surrounding
countryside possessed ample food supplies. What he hadn’t reckoned on was that
local farmers would sell their produce to British troops in Philadelphia rather than
to shivering patriots. Some of this behavior could be attributed to blatant greed and
proﬁteering. But prices also soared as the Continental currency depreciated and an
inﬂationary psychology took hold. Holding a debased currency, the patriots simply
couldn’t compete with the British, who paid in solid pounds sterling. “We must
take the passions of men as nature has given them,” Washington wrote resignedly.
“. . . I do not mean to exclude altogether the idea of patriotism . . . But I will venture to assert that a great and lasting war can never be supported on this principle
alone.”24 Washington presented a rare case of a revolutionary leader who, instead
of being blinded by political fervor, recognized that fallible human beings couldn’t
always live up to the high standards he set for them. Though often embittered by
the mercenary behavior of his countrymen, he tried to accept human nature as it
was. He believed that many Americans had expected a speedy end to the conﬂict
and, when the ﬁrst ﬂush of patriotism faded, were governed by self-interest. In 1778

A Dreary Kind of Place r! 3 2 9

there were far more political fence-sitters than in the giddy days after Lexington
and Concord.
By late January Washington was so enraged about farmers engaging in contraband trade with the enemy that he issued orders “to make an example of some
guilty one, that the rest may be sensible of a like fate, should they persist.”25 Many
farmers tried to bypass restrictions by having women and children drive food-laden
wagons to Philadelphia, hoping American sentries wouldn’t stop them. Nothing
short of the death penalty, Washington insisted, would terminate this reprehensible
practice. Finally, he saw no choice but to sabotage American mills turning out supplies for the enemy and sent teams of soldiers to break off the spindles and spikes
of their water wheels. With a beef shortage looming, he had Nathanael Greene and
almost a thousand men fan out across the countryside and conﬁscate all cattle and
sheep ﬁt for slaughter. As word of the operation spread, farmers hid their livestock
in woods and swamps. Despite such draconian measures, Washington warned that
his army still stared at starvation: “For some days past, there has been little less than
a famine in camp. A part of the army has been a week without any kind of ﬂesh and
the rest three or four days.”26
At Valley Forge, Washington composed numerous screeds against American
greed that make uncomfortable reading for those who regard that winter as a purely
heroic time. Seeing the decay of public virtue everywhere, he berated speculators,
monopolists, and war proﬁteers. “Is the paltry consideration of a little dirty pelf
to individuals to be placed in competition with the essential rights and liberties
of the present generation and of millions yet unborn?” he asked James Warren.
“ . . . And shall we at last become the victims of our own abominable lust of gain?
Forbid it heaven!”27 Washington himself could be a hard-driving businessmen, yet
he found the rapacity of many vendors unconscionable. As he told George Mason,
he thought it the intent of “the speculators—various tribes of money makers—
and stock jobbers of all denominations to continue the war for their own private
emolument, without considering that their avarice and thirst for gain must plunge
everything . . . in one common ruin.”28
Besieged by critics, heartsick at the shabby state of his troops, and angry at
congressional neglect and the supine behavior of the states, Washington refused
to abandon his army and again deferred a visit to Mount Vernon. Martha did not
arrive at Valley Forge until early February. Right before Christmas she had suffered
the grievous loss of her younger sister and best friend, Anna Maria Bassett. Death
had been omnipresent for Martha, who had now lost a husband, a father, ﬁve siblings, and three of her four children. Whether her second husband would survive
this interminable war remained an open question. A touching condolence note to
her brother-in-law, Burwell Bassett, shows that her mind was darkly tinged with

330

r! The Gener a l

thoughts of mortality. Anna “has, I hope, made a happy exchange and only gone a
little before us,” she said of her sister. “The time draws near when I hope we shall
meet, never more to part . . . I must [own] to you that she was the greatest favorite
I had in the world.”29 She pleaded with Burwell to send his ten-year-old daughter
Fanny to Mount Vernon. “If you will let her come to live with me, I will, with the
greatest pleasure, take her and be a parent and mother to her as long as I live.”30 Bassett complied, and Fanny came to occupy a special place in Martha’s affections.
While wishing to join her husband at Valley Forge, Martha was temporarily
detained at Mount Vernon by the birth of her second grandchild to Jacky’s wife on
New Year’s Eve 1777. Though Washington understood the reason for her delay, he
pined for her presence. The long winter journey on bumpy, frozen roads must have
taxed Martha to the utmost. When she arrived at Valley Forge, the soldiers cheered
her, but she was taken aback by her husband’s humble quarters, somber mood, and
frayed nerves. “The General is well but much worn with fatigue and anxiety,” she
conﬁded to a friend. “I never knew him to be so anxious as now.”31
That Martha Washington was made of stern stuff soon grew evident as she
pitched in with good-natured energy. One observer left this touching vignette of
her at work:
I never in my life knew a woman so busy from early morning until late at night as
was Lady Washington, providing comforts for the sick soldiers. Every day, excepting Sunday, the wives of the ofﬁcers in camp, and sometimes other women, were
invited . . . to assist her in knitting socks, patching garments, and making shirts for
the poor soldiers when material could be procured. Every fair day she might be seen,
with basket in hand and with a single attendant, going among the keenest and most
needy sufferers and giving all the comforts to them in her power.32

Her selﬂess, devoted style reminded one admiring Frenchman “of the Roman matrons of whom I had read so much and I thought that she well deserved to be the
companion and friend of the greatest man of the age.”33 By and large Martha Washington wasn’t overtly political, yet she shared her husband’s ﬁrm commitment to
the cause, writing to Mercy Warren, “I hope and trust that all the states will make a
vigorous push early this spring . . . and thereby putting a stop to British cruelties.”34
The wives of several generals stayed at Valley Forge that winter—including the
ﬂirtatious Caty Greene, the amusing but increasingly obese Lucy Knox, and the
elegant Lady Stirling, accompanied by her fashionable daughter, Lady Kitty—and
tried to lighten the dismal mood. Washington was especially beguiled by Lady Kitty,
who requested a lock of his hair. These women dispensed with dancing and card
playing as inappropriate to such mournful times and settled for quiet musical eve-

A Dreary Kind of Place r! 33 1

nings where people took turns singing; tea and coffee replaced more potent beverages. That February, on Washington’s forty-sixth birthday, a little levity was allowed
as he was entertained by a ﬁfe and drum corps.
To relieve residual gloom several months later, Washington allowed junior ofﬁcers to stage his favorite play, Cato, before a “very numerous and splendid audience.”35 Written by Joseph Addison, this classic tale told of a Roman statesman,
Cato the Younger, who had deﬁed the imperial sway of Julius Caesar and committed suicide rather than submit to tyranny. No longer able to ransack British history
for heroes, many patriots turned to classical history for inspiration. Ancient Rome
in its republican phase provided uplifting examples, while its decline and fall into
despotism offset them with cautionary tales. Washington identiﬁed with the stern
code of honor and duty in ancient Rome, taking Cato as a personal model. He had
seen the play performed several times in Williamsburg and he frequently quoted
it. One of his stock phrases—“Thy steady temper . . . can look on guilt, rebellion,
[and] fraud . . . in the calm lights of mild philosophy”—was plucked from the
play.36 Other treasured epigrams included “ ’Tis not in mortals to command success
/ But we’ll do more . . . we’ll deserve it,” a commentary on the ﬁckle power of fate
and how we must acquit ourselves nobly despite it, and “When vice prevails and
impious men bear sway, / The post of honour is a private station.”37 The rhetoric of
Cato saturated the American Revolution. Two of its most famous lines, one from
Nathan Hale, the other from Patrick Henry, derived from the play: “What pity is it /
That we can die but once to serve our country” and “It is not now a time to talk of
aught / But chains or conquest, liberty or death.”38
During this Valley Forge winter Washington conquered his initial misgivings
about Lafayette and embraced him as his most intimate protégé. In late November,
in Gloucester, New Jersey, Lafayette spearheaded a party of four hundred men in
a surprise raid on a Hessian detachment, leading to twenty enemy deaths versus
only one American casualty. Washington admired the Frenchman’s swashbuckling
courage. No longer just another foreign nobleman to be tolerated, Lafayette was
rewarded with command of a division. He knew he had attained a unique place in
Washington’s heart. “I see him more intimately than any other man,” he boasted
to his father-in-law. “. . . His warm friendship for me . . . put[s] me in a position to
share everything he has to do, all the problems he has to solve, and all the obstacles
he has to overcome.”39
Washington found irresistible this young Frenchman who saw him in such
Olympian terms, but Lafayette was also canny and hardworking and constantly
honed his military skills: “I read, I study, I examine, I listen, I reﬂect . . . I do not talk
too much—to avoid saying foolish things—nor risk acting in a foolhardy way.”40
Lafayette opened an emotional spout deep inside the formal Washington. Although

332

r! The Gener a l

he seldom showed such favoritism, Washington made no effort to mask his fondness for Lafayette. He did not fear the young French nobleman as a future rival and
was convinced of his ardent idealism. When Lafayette and his wife had a son, they
decided to name him Georges Louis Gilbert Washington du Motier, Marquis de
Lafayette—for short, George Washington Lafayette. Lafayette vowed that the next
child would be christened Virginia, prompting Franklin to quip that Lafayette had
twelve more states to go.41

Th e C on t i n e n ta l A r m y ’s r ise from the ashes of Valley Forge owed much
to a newcomer, Friedrich Wilhelm Ludolf Gerhard Augustin, Baron von Steuben, a
soldier who liked to decorate himself with sonorous names. While Steuben could
legitimately claim wartime experience, having served as a Prussian captain during
the Seven Years’ War and on the military staff of Frederick the Great, the baron
title was bogus. When, in the summer of 1777, Franklin and Deane in Paris sent
him to America, they embellished his credentials to make him more acceptable
to Washington; on the spot, the unemployed captain was puffed up to the rank
of a lieutenant general. He agreed to waive a salary temporarily and serve only for
expenses. In late February 1778 the self-styled baron with the ﬂeshy nose, jowly
face, and uncertain command of English (he resorted to French to make himself
understood) showed up at Valley Forge, where his bemedaled ﬁgure made a huge
impression. “He seemed to me a perfect personiﬁcation of Mars,” said one private.
“The trappings of his horse, the enormous holsters of his pistols, his large size, and
strikingly martial aspect, all seemed to favor the idea.”42
As he strode about the camp, trailed by his greyhound, Steuben was taken aback
by the misery everywhere: “The men were literally naked . . . The ofﬁcers who had
coats had them in every color and make. I saw ofﬁcers . . . mounting guard in a sort
of dressing gown made of an old blanket or woollen bedcover.”43 Well versed in
military practice, Steuben writhed at the unsanitary conditions; horse carcasses rotted near men preparing food, and sick men mingled with the healthy. He instituted
many necessary reforms, such as having latrines dug at least three hundred feet
away from huts, then promptly ﬁlled and abandoned after four days of use.
Steuben’s advent came at an auspicious time. After the widespread fatalities at
Valley Forge and the tremendous attrition among ofﬁcers, Washington was nervous as he contemplated a resumption of ﬁghting in the spring. Two hundred to
three hundred ofﬁcers had resigned since the summer. Washington needed a tough
drillmaster like Steuben to instill discipline and ready his army for combat. Unlike
the British, whose units moved in brisk, marching steps, the Continental Army had
no uniform methods. Washington had long admired an army manual written by

A Dreary Kind of Place r! 333

Frederick the Great, Instructions to His Generals, which may have predisposed him
to value Steuben’s advice. Schooled in European courts, Steuben stooped to sometimes unctuous ﬂattery with Washington, telling him that “your Excellency is the
only person under whom (after having served under the King of Prussia) I could
wish to pursue an art to which I have wholly given up myself.”44
As he introduced professionalism into this motley army, the mercurial Prussian
performed wonders. Washington started out by assigning one hundred men to him to
be trained for his headquarters guard; he accomplished it so expertly that Washington
soon sent him more. Steuben taught the men new skills, including how to wield bayonets. “The American soldier, never having used this arm, had no faith in it,” recalled
Steuben, “and never used it but to roast his beefsteak.”45 All day long he drilled men
on the broad, open parade ground at the center of the encampment, teaching them
to march and wheel in formation, to switch from line to column and back to line. All
the while he tossed off a storm of profanities in French, English, and German and
galloped about in “whirlwinds of passion.”46 Steuben was foul-mouthed and colorful,
and the men were charmed by their strangely ﬂamboyant new drillmaster.
With editorial assistance from John Laurens and Alexander Hamilton, Steuben began to compile his famous “blue book,” an instruction manual for drills and
marches that gave new precision to the infantry. This booklet was so well done that
it remained in use until the Civil War. Thrilled with his ersatz baron, Washington
hailed him as a “gentleman of high military rank, profound knowledge, and great
experience in his profession.”47 In another letter, he allowed his personal affection
to peep through. “I regard and esteem the baron as an assiduous, intelligent, and
experienced ofﬁcer.”48 Washington always felt special gratitude to Steuben for helping to rescue the army that winter. When he later drafted a brief evaluation of him,
he described him thus: “Sensible, sober, and brave; well acquainted with tactics and
with the arrangement and discipline of an army. High in his ideas of subordination,
impetuous in his temper, ambitious, and a foreigner.”49
That winter the projected shortage of soldiers led Washington to introduce another signiﬁcant change in policy. In January 1778 Brigadier General James Mitchell
Varnum of Rhode Island asked the unthinkable of the Virginia planter: the right to
augment his state’s forces by recruiting black troops. “It is imagined that a battalion
of Negroes can be easily raised there,” he assured Washington.50 Washington knew
this was an incendiary idea for many southerners. Nevertheless, desperate to recruit
more manpower, he gave his stamp of approval, telling Rhode Island’s governor
“that you will give the ofﬁcers employed in this business all the assistance in your
power.”51 The state promised to free any slaves willing to join an all-black battalion
that soon numbered 130 men. Massachusetts followed Rhode Island’s lead in enlisting black soldiers, and in Connecticut, slave masters were exempt from military ser-

33 4

r! The Gener a l

vice if they sent slaves in their stead. That August a census listed 755 blacks as part of
the Continental Army, or nearly 5 percent of the total force. Later in the war Baron
Ludwig von Closen, attached to the French Army, said of Washington’s men, “A
quarter of them were Negroes, merry, conﬁdent, and sturdy.” This estimate sounds
grossly exaggerated. Closer to the mark was the Frenchman’s unstinting praise for
these self-conﬁdent black soldiers, saying they made up three-quarters of a Rhode
Island regiment, “and that regiment is the most neatly dressed, the best under arms,
and the most precise in its maneuvers.”52
Even as the American Revolution broadened George Washington, he had to
reconcile his changed outlook with his private decisions as a slave owner. It seems
more than coincidental that, in the aftermath of approving the black Rhode Island
battalion, he signaled to Lund Washington a momentous shift at Mount Vernon:
henceforth he wouldn’t sell slaves against their will. Until this point Lund preferred
selling slaves at public auctions to fetch the highest price. But in early April, upon
learning of the new policy, Lund reported back to Washington that two slaves put up
for sale had balked at leaving, binding his hands. One slave, Phillis, “was so alarmed
at the thoughts of being sold that the [prospective purchaser] cou[l]d not get her to
utter a word of English, therefore he believed she cou[l]d not speak.” Lund drew the
moral quite starkly for Washington, saying that “unless I was to make a public sale of
those Negroes and to pay no regard to their being willing or not, I see no probability
of sell[in]g them.”53 On August 15 Washington transmitted a still more revolutionary statement to Lund. While discussing possible land purchases in the Northern
Neck, he referred to his slaves and made the astounding parenthetical statement “(of
whom I every day long more and more to get clear of).”54 Still, he would not ﬁgure
out how to banish slavery from Mount Vernon until the end of his life.

A s t h e w e at h e r wa r m e d and spring beckoned, Washington decided to
honor his men for their hardy resilience during their long winter trial. He issued
resounding paeans to the freed slaves and former indentured servants, farmers and
shopkeepers, who made up his army: “The recent instance of uncomplaining patience during the scarcity of provisions in camp is a fresh proof that they possess in
an eminent degree the spirit of soldiers and the magnanimity of patriots.” His soldiers had won the “admiration of the world, the love of their country, and the gratitude of posterity!”55 To show he meant business, Washington issued a gill of rum
or whiskey to every man. The food situation started to improve in mid-February,
and in March Washington looked forward to putting twelve thousand well-trained
men in the ﬁeld, even though three thousand were still disabled by smallpox and
other diseases.

A Dreary Kind of Place r! 335

No matter how much Baron von Steuben sharpened the army’s skills, it seemed
unlikely ever to defeat the enemy without a foreign ally to neutralize British sea
power. Washington had long doubted that anything other than covert aid would
come from France, which had secretly supplied arms to America through a ﬁctitious trading company. He could never decide whether French aid was a rope with
which to hang the British or a leash to restrain the Americans. Signiﬁcantly those
Americans, such as Washington and Hamilton, who had direct contact with French
ofﬁcers retained the deepest skepticism about their motives. To guarantee the ﬂow
of munitions from France, Washington had tolerated the pretensions of a steady
stream of French ofﬁcers. Lafayette was the person best positioned to promote this
strategic alliance. At a critical moment during the so-called Conway Cabal, the
marquis had reminded Congress that George Washington personiﬁed America for
the Court of Versailles and couldn’t be replaced without doing grave damage to the
sub-rosa French alliance.
Even as the Continental Army huddled by ﬁres at Valley Forge, Benjamin Franklin pulled off a magniﬁcent diplomatic feat in the opulent ministries of Paris. On
February 6 France recognized American independence through a pair of treaties:
the ﬁrst granting French goods most-favored-nation status in America, and the second committing the French to a military alliance. In the splendid halls of Versailles,
Franklin was now addressed not as the representative of thirteen colonies but as an
emissary of the United States. In getting a monarchy to bestow its blessings upon
an upstart republic, he had won a staggering achievement.
In late April Washington received unofﬁcial word of the French alliance and
fully realized its vast signiﬁcance. At the news, Lafayette gave Washington—the
man nobody touched—a double-barreled French kiss on both cheeks. Washington was exultant as tears of joy welled up in his eyes. “I believe no event was ever
received with a more heartfelt joy,” he informed Congress.56 For Washington, the
French treaties gave proof that heaven had indeed smiled upon the United States.
As he told his troops, in orotund prose, “It having pleased the Almighty ruler of the
Universe propitiously to defend the cause of the United American States and ﬁnally,
by raising us up a powerful friend among the princes of the earth, to establish our
liberty and independence upon lasting foundations, it becomes us to set apart a day
for gratefully acknowledging the divine goodness.”57
On May 6, with his fondness for pageantry, George Washington staged a celebration of the French treaties, beginning with mustering brigades at nine a.m. The
treaties were solemnly read aloud, followed by the ﬁring of thirteen cannon. The
infantry then ﬁred their muskets in sequence, a feu de joie that swept the double
rows of soldiers, who chanted with gusto, “Long Live the King of France.”58 French
ofﬁcers were embraced everywhere. Steuben showed off the crack precision of his

33 6

r! The Gener a l

men, who strutted smartly before a beaming Washington. As a reward, Steuben was
appointed inspector general with the rank of major general. “Through it all,” John
Laurens told his father, Washington “wore a countenance of uncommon delight.”59
This was more than a celebration of the French treaties; it was a day of thanksgiving for surviving the horrid winter. In a dreamlike transformation, the ofﬁcers now
partook of a bountiful alfresco dinner. “Fifteen hundred persons sat down to the
tables, which were spread in the open air,” said General Johann de Kalb. “Wine,
meats, and liquors abounded, and happiness and contentment were impressed on
every countenance.”60 Washington even played cricket with younger ofﬁcers. When
he rode off contentedly at ﬁve o’clock, his men clapped their hands, cheered “Long
live George Washington!” and twirled a thousand hats in the air.61 Washington and
his aides kept stopping and looking back, sending huzzahs in return.
It was Washington’s nature to ponder the darker side of things, and that night he
sent out special patrols to guard the camp, lest the enemy try to exploit the festivities, as Washington had done with the Hessians on Christmas Night in 1776. The
sudden turn of events both emboldened him and made him cautious. Although he
thought the French alliance would tip the scales and that things were now “verging
fast to a favorable issue,” he fretted that this bonanza might breed overconﬁdence.62
In the short run, although it yielded no immediate beneﬁts, the French alliance was
an immense tonic to American spirits. Not until midsummer would France be ofﬁcially at war with England, and in the meantime the Continental Army fended as
best it could against a newly alarmed British Empire.

ch ap ter t w ent y-eight

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

The Long Retreat

Th e f i r s t c a sua lt y the French alliance claimed was General William Howe,
who informed his troops that spring of his imminent departure for England after
a winter of fun and revelry in Philadelphia. He was replaced by General Henry
Clinton, who at ﬁrst glance scarcely projected a heroic image. A lonely widower,
Clinton was a short man with a low, balding brow and dark eyebrows; in one image,
his hooked nose and large jaw looked much too massive for his tiny face. The entire
effect might have been unappealing, were it not for the kindly, intelligent expression in his eyes. If he could be rash, quarrelsome, and hypersensitive, Clinton also
had a long and distinguished military record, including early service in a New York
militia and a stint in the Coldstream Guards. For his valorous leadership at New
York in 1776, he was decorated as a Knight of the Bath. Six months earlier George
Washington had expressed contempt for Clinton when he referred to his “diabolical
designs” in a letter to a Virginia friend.1
France’s entry into the war would precipitate a radical shift in British strategy.
Both empires controlled lucrative islands in the West Indies, whose vast sugar and
cotton slave plantations had yielded considerable proﬁts. When Clinton was ordered that spring to divert eight thousand men, or a third of his army, to reinforce
the West Indies and Florida, he concluded that staying in Philadelphia was untenable and decided to evacuate his troops across New Jersey to New York City. The
British still dreamed of a mass Loyalist uprising that would turn the war decisively
in their favor, but many Americans who fraternized with the enemy merely sought
lucrative business. Those Loyalists in Philadelphia who had curried favor with the
British were thrown into a panic by their decision to quit the city and made boot-

33 8

r! The Gener a l

less attempts to travel north with the army. By failing to safeguard these turncoats,
the British committed a major propaganda blunder. “No man,” said one royal ofﬁcial, “can be expected to declare for us when he cannot be assured a fortnight’s
protection.”2 With excellent political judgment, Washington opposed a plan to levy
punitive taxes on rich Tory sympathizers when the patriots regained the town. “A
measure of this sort . . . would not only be inconsistent with sound policy,” he reﬂected, “but would be looked upon as an arbitrary stretch of military power.”3 He
named Benedict Arnold commandant of the reclaimed city.
Often mystiﬁed by British intentions, Washington had accurate intelligence in
mid-May that the British would leave Philadelphia and repair to their more secure
base in New York. He did not know whether Clinton would return by land across
New Jersey or by sea. With three thousand men still sick, and short of supplies,
Washington doubted he could capitalize on a land retreat. Ironically in view of
what was to happen, he envisioned a lightning march of quick-stepping British
soldiers across New Jersey, led by “the ﬂower of their army, unencumbered with
baggage,” and did not think he could harass such ﬂeet-footed units.4
In April Washington had been rejoined by General Charles Lee, who was released
in a prisoner exchange after sixteen months of captivity in New York. As queer a ﬁsh
as ever, the imprisoned Lee had written to Washington that he should forward his
beloved dogs, “as I never stood in greater need of their company than at present.”5
His opinion of Washington’s military talents had hardly improved with incarceration.
When Elias Boudinot, commissary general of prisoners, visited Lee that January, the
latter launched into a diatribe about “the impossibility of our troops, under such an
ignorant Commander in Chief, ever withstanding British grenadiers and light infantry,” as Boudinot recorded in his journal.6 Attempting to woo the capricious Lee
to their side, the British had pampered him with choice food and wine and a warm
bed “into which he tumbled jovially mellow every night.”7 The strategy produced the
desired effect. It was later learned that Lee may have sketched out for General Howe a
comprehensive plan on how to crush patriotic resistance and end the war.
Washington knew none of this that April, when he amicably greeted Lee on
horseback, with all the honors due to his second in command, on a road outside
Valley Forge. The two rode companionably into camp together, ﬂanked by troops
exhibiting the precision marching drilled into them by Steuben. Lee immediately
exhibited bizarre behavior. When he awoke the next morning, “he looked as dirty as
if he had been in the street all night,” said Boudinot, staggered that Lee had brought
along “a miserable dirty hussy with him from Philadelphia and had actually taken
her into his room by a back door and she had slept with him that night.”8
Lee was guilty of more than bad manners. Far from giving Washington credit
for saving the army at Valley Forge, he snickered in private that Washington was

The Long Retreat r! 339

“not ﬁt to command a sergeant’s guard,” that the army was “in a worse situation
than he had expected,” and that Washington couldn’t do without him, since he surrounded himself with toadying ofﬁcers.9 But Lee was careful to conceal this venom
from Washington himself: in a sympathetic note in mid-June, he apologized obsequiously to Washington for intruding on his time as it “must necessarily be taken
up by more and a greater variety of business than perhaps ever was impos[ed] on
the shoulders of any one mortal.”10 With his usual certitude, Lee believed that the
superior British forces would not retreat to New York but would lurch west and try
to engage the Americans near Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
On June 16 Washington received a clue that the British stood on the verge of
leaving Philadelphia: peace commissioners sent by George III to Philadelphia had
asked for the immediate return of their clothing from the laundry. Two days later
ten thousand British and Hessian troops began shufﬂing across New Jersey toward
New York, slowed by a baggage train of ﬁfteen hundred wagons that stretched for
twelve miles. Coincidentally, Washington had recently lectured his men on the hazards of getting bogged down with bulky, overloaded baggage: “An army by means
of it is rendered unwieldy and incapable of acting with that ease and celerity which
are essential . . . to its own security.”11
Washington summoned a war council to consider whether to pounce on the
retreating army. Most of his generals, after the previous fall’s defeats and the traumatic winter, urged extreme caution. The usually daring Henry Knox warned that
“it would be the most criminal madness to hazard a general action at this time,”
while Charles Lee passionately opposed any action.12 Despite the overall air of skepticism, some of Washington’s generals wanted to engage the British aggressively; the
impetuous Anthony Wayne declared his desire of “Burgoyning Clinton.”13 On June
18, as soon as he received deﬁnite word that the British were leaving Philadelphia,
Washington sent six brigades in pursuit of them. The last remnants of the Continental Army crossed the Delaware River into New Jersey on June 22.
Two days later, at Hopewell, Washington again weighed the conﬂicting views of
his generals. In sweltering, rainy weather, the British Army had turned east toward
Sandy Hook and trudged across gravelly, uncertain terrain at a rate of only six miles
per day, making them a tempting target. Their woollen uniforms and cumbersome
gear turned their march into a torturous ordeal. Some soldiers dropped dead from
sunstroke, and the British ranks were badly thinned by desertions. For once the
Continental Army, twelve thousand strong, enjoyed a numerical advantage. At a
war council on June 24 Charles Lee reiterated his view that it was in the patriots’
interest to have the British evacuate Philadelphia and that they should, to this end,
construct “a bridge of gold” to New York and let the British cross it.14 Once again
the generals opposed a major engagement and favored a more circumscribed op-

3 40

r! The Gener a l

eration in which ﬁfteen hundred men under Brigadier General Charles Scott would
harass the British Army. Such caution led Alexander Hamilton to comment tartly
that the timid conclave “would have done honor to the most honorable society of
midwives.”15 Greene, Wayne, Lafayette, and Steuben knew the country clamored
for strong action. “People expect something from us and our strength demands
it,” Greene advised in a letter. “I am by no means for rash measures, but we must
preserve our reputation.”16 Lafayette, who privately ridiculed the war council “as a
school of logic,” urged Washington to defy its meek counsel.17 Washington, with
growing conﬁdence in his own judgment, overruled the majority of generals and
decided to undertake a more assertive operation against the British, led by an advance contingent of four thousand men.
On June 25 he learned that British troops were approaching the tiny crossroads
village of Monmouth Court House (now Freehold) and deputized Charles Lee to
lead the offensive. When Lee balked at the assignment as beneath his lofty dignity,
ﬁt only for a “young volunteering general,” Washington handed the job to Lafayette,
who would command the vanguard force to harry the British rear.18 “The young
Frenchman, in raptures with his command and burning to distinguish himself,
moves toward the enemy who are in motion,” the aide James McHenry wrote in his
diary.19 Suddenly afraid that Lafayette would steal his glory, Lee informed Washington that he had reconsidered. “They say that a corps consisting of six thousand
men, the greater part chosen, is undoubtedly the most honorable command next to
the Commander in Chief; that my ceding it wou[l]d of course have an odd appearance,” he wrote with considerable understatement. “I must entreat therefore . . .
that, if this detachment does march, that I may have the command of it.”20 If he did
not get the command, Lee asserted, he would be disgraced, which meant he might
have to resign.
Whatever Washington thought of Lee’s attempts to gratify his own selfimportance, he couldn’t afford a feud with his second in command on the eve of
battle, even if Lee had shown little sympathy for the planned attack. On the other
hand, he didn’t wish to disappoint Lafayette. So he crafted a nice compromise, adding one thousand men to the operation and placing Lafayette under Lee’s nominal
command. As James McHenry wrote, “To prevent disunion, Lee is detached with 2
brigades to join the Marquis and as senior ofﬁcer to the command. His detachment
consists of 5,000 men, four-ﬁfths of whom were picked for this service.”21
On June 27, as the British reached the vicinity of Monmouth Court House, the
advance American forces pulled to within six miles of the tail end of their column.
Meeting with his generals, Washington ordered Lee to attack the British column the
next morning, as soon as it sprang into motion. He himself would hang in the rear
with six thousand men, prepared to move forward with the main body of the army.

The Long Retreat r! 3 4 1

In retrospect, Washington conceded too much latitude to Lee, and the open-ended
nature of the battle plans would breed fatal confusion the following day.
Many romantic yarns have been spun about the eve of the Battle of Monmouth.
One describes the Reverend David Grifﬁth, a chaplain in the Continental Army, going to Washington and warning him that General Lee planned to make him seem
inept the next day so as to nab the top army spot for himself. Another tale claims that
several generals approached Washington’s friend Dr. James Craik and asked him to
appeal to Washington to safeguard his own person in the coming conﬂict instead of
exposing himself to danger. This advice, if given, ran counter to Washington’s active
conception of leadership on the battleﬁeld. It is also said that Charles Lee, overtaken
by a case of nerves, paced through a sleepless night before the battle. As for Washington, he is said to have shown a touching solidarity with his men, akin to Shakespeare’s
Henry V before the Battle of Agincourt, sleeping under a tree amid his army.
Around dawn Washington learned that the British Army had risen early and
was already marching toward Sandy Hook. He sent orders for General Lee “to move
on and attack them unless there should be very powerful reasons to the contrary,”
and started toward Monmouth Court House with his men.22 Washington recommended that Lee’s men jettison their packs and blankets to accelerate their speed.
Unfamiliar with the local topography, Lee found himself penetrating terra incognita, a problem that had troubled the Continental Army in previous contests. On
this morning of brutal weather, the temperature would zoom close to one hundred degrees, and many men stripped off their shirts and rode bare-chested. Joseph
Plumb Martin opined that “the mouth of a heated oven seemed to me to be but
a triﬂe hotter than this ploughed ﬁeld; it was almost impossible to breathe.”23 At
eleven a.m. Washington, accompanied by troops under Stirling and Greene, wrote
to Henry Laurens that several men had already expired from the heat.
Toward noon, as his main force advanced toward Monmouth Court House,
Washington couldn’t see what was happening up ahead and assumed that all was
going according to plan. In reality, Lee had made only a confused, halfhearted attack
against Clinton and Cornwallis who, anticipating a possible attack, had concentrated their ﬁnest soldiers in the rear. They turned the tables, gathered six thousand
men, and chased back the outnumbered Americans, who fell back in terror. Washington’s ﬁrst inkling of disaster came when a farmer told him that American troops
were retreating. Having received no report from Lee himself, Washington was at
ﬁrst incredulous. Then a frightened young ﬁfer who was hustled into his presence
assured him that “the Continental troops that had been advanced were retreating.”
Washington was shocked. Fearful that a false report might trigger chaos, Washington categorically warned the boy that “if he mentioned a thing of the sort, he would
have him whipped.”24

342

r! The Gener a l

Taking no chances, Washington spurred his horse toward the front. He had not
gone ﬁfty yards when he encountered several soldiers who corroborated that the
entire advance force was now staggering back in confused retreat. Soon Washington saw increasing numbers of men, dazed and exhausted from the stiﬂing heat,
tumbling toward him. He told aides that he was “exceedingly alarmed” and could
not ﬁgure out why Lee had not notiﬁed him of this retreat.25 Then Washington
looked up and saw the culprit himself riding toward him: General Lee, trailed by
his dogs. “What is the meaning of this, sir?” Washington demanded truculently. “I
desire to know the meaning of this disorder and confusion!”26 According to some
witnesses, it was one of those singular moments when Washington showed undisguised wrath. Indignant, Lee stared blankly at him and spluttered in amazement.
“Sir? Sir?” he asked, offended by Washington’s tone.27
In his self-serving view of events, Lee believed that he had performed a prodigious feat, rescuing his overmatched army from danger and organizing an orderly
retreat. “The American troops would not stand the British bayonets,” he insisted
to Washington. “You damned poltroon,” Washington rejoined, “you never tried
them!”28 Always reluctant to resort to profanities, the chaste Washington cursed
at Lee “till the leaves shook on the tree,” recalled General Scott. “Charming! Delightful! Never have I enjoyed such swearing before or since.”29 Lafayette said it
was the only time he ever heard Washington swear. “I confess I was disconcerted,
astonished, and confounded by the words and the manner in which His Excellency
accosted me,” Lee recalled. He said Washington’s tone was “so novel and unexpected
from a man whose discretion, humanity, and decorum” he admired that its effect
was much stronger than the words themselves.30 Lee, babbling incoherently, tried
to explain to Washington that he found himself facing the British on an open plain,
making his men easy prey for British cavalry. Washington brusquely dismissed Lee’s
reminder that he had opposed the attack in the ﬁrst place: “All this may be very true,
sir, but you ought not to have undertaken it unless you intended to go through with
it!”31 In retrospect, Washington had trusted too much to an erratic general who had
supported the mission only reluctantly, and he now banished him to the rear. Lafayette later said of Washington’s encounter with Lee that “no one had ever before
seen Washington so terribly excited; his whole appearance was fearful.”32 This was
the temperamental side of Washington that he ordinarily kept well under wraps.
Washington now moved toward the front and learned that the brunt of the
enemy forces would arrive in ﬁfteen minutes. As Tench Tilghman recalled, Washington “seemed at a loss, as he was on a piece of ground entirely strange to him.”33
The battleﬁeld was an idyllic spot of steeply rolling farmland, split down the middle
by deep ravines and creeks. Though spontaneity was never his strong suit, Washington reacted with undisputed ﬂair and sure intuition. Fired up with anger as well

The Long Retreat r! 3 43

as courage, he instructed Anthony Wayne to hold the enemy at bay with two nearby
regiments while he rallied the confused rout of men. Commanding as always on
horseback, he succeeded in stemming the panic through pure will. When he asked
the men if they would ﬁght, they loudly responded with three lusty cheers—a novel
occurrence in Washington’s experience, suggesting the deep affection he inspired
after the shared sacriﬁce at Valley Forge. His cool presence emboldened his men to
resist the approaching British bayonets and cavalry charges. All the while American
artillery shelled the British from a nearby ridge. Lafayette stood in awe of Washington’s feat: “His presence stopped the retreat . . . His graceful bearing on horseback,
his calm and deportment which still retained a trace of displeasure . . . were all calculated to inspire the highest degree of enthusiasm . . . I thought then as now that
I had never beheld so superb a man.”34 Sometimes critical of Washington’s military
talents, Hamilton ratiﬁed Lafayette’s laudatory appraisal: “I never saw the general
to so much advantage. His coolness and ﬁrmness were admirable . . . [He] directed
the whole with the skill of a master workman.”35 Stirling and Greene particularly
distinguished themselves during the action, although Washington reserved his
highest praise for Brigadier General Anthony Wayne, “whose good conduct and
bravery thro[ugh] the whole action deserves particular commendation.”36
The bloody battle that afternoon was a ﬁerce seesaw struggle that took many
casualties on both sides. For two hours in blazing heat, British and Continentals
exchanged cannon ﬁre. As in previous battles, Washington experienced narrow escapes. While he was deep in conversation with one ofﬁcer, a cannonball exploded at
his horse’s feet, ﬂinging dirt in his face; Washington kept talking as if nothing had
happened. He was everywhere on horseback, forming defensive lines, urging on his
men, and giving them the chance to display the marching skills acquired at Valley
Forge under Steuben. Lines of patriot soldiers ﬁred muskets with discipline not
seen before. Several times the well-trained Americans withstood vigorous charges
by British regulars. Earlier in the day Washington had ridden a white charger, a gift
from Governor Livingston of New Jersey. As the battleﬁeld turned into a furnace,
this beautiful horse suddenly dropped dead from the heat. At that point Billy Lee
trotted up with a chestnut mare, which Washington rode for the duration.
In this marathon, daylong battle, the ﬁghting ground on until six in the afternoon. Though tempted to pursue the British, Washington bowed to the exhausted
state of his men and decided to wait until morning to storm enemy positions. Clinton pulled his men back half a mile, beyond the range of American artillery. To keep
his weary troops ready, Washington had them sleep on their arms in the ﬁeld, ready
to resume their offensive at daybreak. They inhabited a battleﬁeld strewn with
blood-spattered bodies. That night Washington draped his cloak on the ground
beneath a sheltering tree, and he and Lafayette sat up chatting about Charles Lee’s

344

r! The Gener a l

insubordination before falling asleep side by side. They could see campﬁres burning on the British side, unaware that it was a ruse used by Clinton to camouﬂage the
British Army stealing off at midnight. At daybreak Washington awoke and realized
that the British had quietly drifted away, headed for New York. He had been tricked
by the same gimmick that he himself had employed at Brooklyn and at Trenton.
With his men spent from battle, Washington knew it was pointless to trail after the
ﬂeeing British.
Both sides claimed victory after the battle, and the best casualty estimates show
something close to a draw: 362 killed, wounded, or missing Americans, versus British casualties that ranged anywhere from 380 to 500. After the drubbing at Brandywine Creek and Germantown, Washington may be forgiven for crowing about
Monmouth as a “glorious and happy day.”37 Having weathered the horrendous winter at Valley Forge, American soldiers, with new élan, had proved themselves the
equal of the best British professionals. In general orders for June 29, Washington
trumpeted the battle as an unadulterated triumph: “The Commander in Chief congratulates the army on the victory obtained over the arms of his Britannic Majesty
yesterday and thanks most sincerely the gallant ofﬁcers and men who distinguished
themselves upon the occasion.”38 Washington’s joy at the outcome owed much to
the fact that he had rescued the army from a disaster in the making.
As always, however, Washington disclaimed credit and directed attention to a
higher power. He ordered his men to put on decent clothes so that “we may publicly unite in thanksgiving to the supreme disposer of human events for the victory
which was obtained on Sunday over the ﬂower of the British troops.”39 The Battle of
Monmouth added luster to Washington’s reputation as someone who could outwit
danger. Writing on behalf of Congress, Henry Laurens predicted that Washington’s
name would be “revered by posterity” and alluded to his miraculous escapes from
harm: “Our acknowledgments are especially due to Heaven for the preservation of
Your Excellency’s person, necessarily exposed for the salvation of America to the
most imminent danger in the late action.”40
Washington’s role at Monmouth stands out with special vividness because it was
the last such major battle in the North during the war. Henceforth the British high
command would shift its focus to the South, where it hoped to exploit widespread
Loyalist sentiment. This move would thrust Washington into the odd situation of
often being an idle spectator of distant ﬁghting in the South. Not until Yorktown,
more than three years later, would he again be directly exposed to the hurly-burly of
a full-scale battle. The Battle of Monmouth clariﬁed that Washington did not need
to save towns but only to preserve the Continental Army and keep alive the sacred
ﬂame of rebellion. As he told Laurens, the British were now well aware “that the
possession of our towns, while we have an army in the ﬁeld, will avail them little.

The Long Retreat r! 3 45

It involves us in difﬁculty, but does not by any means insure them conquest.”41 A
war of attrition, however deﬁcient in heroic glamour, still seemed the most certain
path to victory.
Before Monmouth, George Washington had been unusually tolerant of the antic, impertinent behavior and self-congratulatory rhetoric of Charles Lee, but that
patience had now expired. Retaining his elevated opinion of his own military genius, Lee blustered indiscreetly that he had been on the brink of rallying his men
when Washington showed up and ruined everything. “By all that’s sacred,” he exclaimed, “General Washington had scarcely any more to do in [the battle] than to
strip the dead!”42 To top things off, Lee said that Washington had “sent me out of
the ﬁeld when the victory was assured! Such is my recompense for having sacriﬁced
my friends, my connections, and perhaps my fortune.”43
Charles Lee did not realize that he had crossed a line with Washington, and that
anyone who offended his dignity paid a terrible price. He saw himself as the victim
and, for two days after the battle, awaited an apology from Washington. Then he
sent him an insolent letter in which he blamed “dirty earwigs” for poisoning Washington’s mind against him: “I must conclude that nothing but the misinformation
of some very stupid, or misrepresentation of some very wicked person cou[l]d have
occasioned your making use of so very singular expressions as you did on my coming up to the ground where you had taken post. They implied that I was guilty
either of disobedience of orders, or want of conduct, or want of courage.” The presumptuous Lee then added that “the success of the day was entirely owing” to his
maneuvers.44 This intemperate communication sealed Charles Lee’s fate.
With ofﬁcers who crossed him, Washington tended to exhibit inﬁnite patience
and overlook many faults, but when a day of reckoning came, he unleashed the full
force of his slow-burning fury at their accumulated slights. As with many overly
controlled people, Washington’s anger festered, only to burst out belatedly. He now
returned a blistering reply in which he branded Lee’s letter “highly improper” and
said his own angry words at Monmouth were “dictated by duty and warranted by
the occasion.” He accused Lee of “a breach of orders and of misbehavior” in not
attacking the enemy “as you had been directed and making an unnecessary, disorderly, and shameful retreat.”45 When he received this rebuke, Lee said, “I was more
than confounded. I was thrown into a stupor. My whole faculties were, for a time,
benumbed. I read and read it over a dozen times.”46 To clear his name, Lee demanded a court-martial, and Washington called his bluff, promptly sending Adjutant General Alexander Scammell to arrest him and bring him up on charges.
Lee was charged with disobeying orders, permitting a disorderly retreat, and
disrespecting the commander in chief. A court-martial, presided over by twelve
ofﬁcers, took testimony for six weeks, found Lee guilty, and suspended him from

3 46

r! The Gener a l

the army for twelve months. The verdict effectively ended his military career. With
exemplary restraint, Washington did not comment on the decision until Congress
certiﬁed it. As Congress procrastinated for four months, word of the verdict leaked
out. Intent on fairness, Washington wrote in conﬁdence to his brother Jack, “This
delay is a manifest injustice either to the Gener[a]l himself or the public; for if he
is guilty of the charges, punishment ought to follow; if he is innocent, ’tis cruel
to keep him under the harrow.”47 Charles Lee proclaimed to anyone who would
listen that he had been subjected to an “inquisition” worthy of Mazarin or Cardinal Richelieu.48 The inept Lee may not have been guilty of all the charges directed
against him, but neither had he covered himself with glory at Monmouth.
Washington had not heard the last from Charles Lee. In early December Lee
published a vindication of his conduct, contending that Washington had failed to
give him deﬁnite orders at Monmouth Court House. If Washington chafed at the
accusation, it wasn’t his style to engage in public feuding. At the same time he worried that, if he didn’t refute Lee’s charges, it might seem “a tacit acknowledgment of
the justice of his assertions,” as Washington told Joseph Reed. He confessed that he
had always found Lee’s temperament “too versatile and violent to attract my admiration. And that I have escaped the venom of his tongue and pen so long is more to
be wondered at than applauded.”49
Even though Congress conﬁrmed the court-martial verdict and suspended Lee
in December 1778, Washington still worried that Lee’s charges had sullied his honor.
In late December John Laurens, with Alexander Hamilton acting as his second,
challenged Lee to a duel. “I am informed that in contempt of decency and truth
you have publicly abused General Washington in the grossest terms,” Laurens informed Lee. “The relation in which I stand to him forbids me to pass such conduct
unnoticed.”50 At the duel Laurens wounded Lee in the side, but the latter survived.
Whether the duel had Washington’s tacit approval remains unclear. Unlike many
military men, Washington opposed dueling and had advised Lafayette against
ﬁghting a duel that year, chiding him gently that “the generous spirit of chivalry,
exploded by the rest of the world, ﬁnds a refuge, my dear friend, in the sensibility
of your nation only.”51 On the other hand, it is hard to imagine that Laurens and
Hamilton would have deﬁed the explicit wishes of Washington, who had felt gagged
in responding to Lee’s libelous comments.
From the retirement of his farm in Virginia, Charles Lee, as irascible as ever, continued to wage a campaign of vituperation against Washington. In 1780 he sent to
Congress a letter whose tone was so obnoxious that he was cashiered for good from
the armed forces. Before his death in 1782, Lee requested that he be buried somewhere
other than a churchyard, stating that “since I have resided in this country, I have kept
so much bad company while living, that I do not choose to continue it when dead.”52

ch ap ter t w ent y-nine

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Pests of Society

Ev e n a s t h e C on t i n e n ta l A r m y fough t in the gritty heat of Monmouth Court House, then ﬁled wearily toward the Hudson River, blessed relief
seemed to arrive when a French ﬂeet dropped anchor off Delaware Bay on July
8, 1778. This majestic armada of twelve enormous ships of the line and four frigates, bearing four thousand soldiers, ended Britain’s undisputed dominance in sea
power in the war. A few weeks earlier French and British ships had exchanged ﬁre
in the English Channel, dragging France irrevocably into the hostilities. Henceforth
the Revolutionary War would gradually evolve into a global conﬂict, with theaters
of battle extending from the West Indies to the Indian Ocean.
The French ﬂeet was headed by a forty-eight-year-old French nobleman and
vice admiral with a long, ﬂowery name: Count Jean-Baptiste-Charles-Henri-Hector
d’Estaing. D’Estaing had his own reasons for joining the ﬁght, having clashed with
the British in the East Indies and been captured by them twice. With his army
background, he had never entirely gained the trust of skeptical naval ofﬁcers, who
sometimes reﬂexively addressed him as “General.”1 He had won the high-prestige
American assignment less from naval prowess than from his intimacy with the
royal family. The day he arrived off the Chesapeake, d’Estaing sent Washington a
rather rapturous letter of introduction: “The talents and great actions of General
Washington have insured him in the eyes of all Europe the title, truly sublime, of
deliverer of America.”2
It proved a bittersweet moment for Washington, who imagined that, if the
French ﬂeet had shown up weeks earlier, it might have delivered a mortal blow to
the British Army in Philadelphia; had that happened, Sir Henry Clinton might have

348

r! The Gener a l

“shared (at least) the fate of Burgoyne.”3 Destiny had robbed George Washington
of a spectacular chance to eclipse Horatio Gates. Whatever his regrets, Washington
dispatched his faithful aide John Laurens to coordinate plans with the admiral and
reverted to his fond daydream of recapturing New York. From his camp in White
Plains, he mused how the war had now come full circle, giving him an unexpected
chance to redeem past errors: “It is not a little pleasing, nor less wonderful to contemplate, that after two years’ maneuvering and undergoing the strangest vicissitudes that perhaps ever attended any one contest since the creation, both armies are
brought back to the very point they set out from.”4 Momentarily it appeared that
d’Estaing might pull off a quick miracle. With his ﬂeet anchored off Sandy Hook,
the prospect arose that he could trap the Royal Navy in New York Bay. Then it was
discovered that the harbor channel was too shallow for the deep draft of his huge
ships, and Washington believed yet another exquisite chance to shorten the war had
been fumbled.
The inaugural effort at cooperation with the French squadron ended up riddled
with acrimony. The new allies decided to demolish the British garrison at Newport,
Rhode Island, through a joint effort of the American army under Major General
John Sullivan and the French ﬂeet under d’Estaing. The swarthy Sullivan was a
competent but notoriously cantankerous ofﬁcer. A year earlier Washington had felt
duty-bound to challenge his pretensions. “No other ofﬁcer of rank in the whole
army has so often conceived himself neglected, slighted, and ill-treated as you have
done,” Washington warned him, “and none, I am sure, has had less cause than yourself to entertain such ideas.”5 The brawny Irishman hardly seemed the ideal person
to coordinate a military mission with a highborn French count.
When an untimely storm and the appearance of a British ﬂeet interfered with
the Newport assault, d’Estaing decided to scuttle it and take refuge in Boston. For
Washington, this was yet the third time that a stupendous opportunity had been
bungled. “If the garrison of that place (consisting of 6,000 men) had been captured . . . it would have given the ﬁnishing blow to British pretensions of sovereignty
of this country,” Washington asserted to his brother Jack.6 Fuming, Sullivan swore
that the French had left his men dangerously stranded in Rhode Island. On August
22 he and Nathanael Greene sent an explosive letter to d’Estaing, accusing him of
craven betrayal. However much Washington might have sympathized with their
critique, he didn’t believe he could afford to spar with his French allies, so he tried
to hush up the letter and sent the politic Greene to mend fences with d’Estaing. He
also pleaded with Sullivan to restore cordial relations and avoid festering mistrust:
“First impressions, you know, are generally longest remembered, and will serve to
ﬁx in a great degree our national character among the French.”7
With d’Estaing, Washington swallowed his pride and ﬂattered the Frenchman’s

Pests of Society r! 3 49

pride unashamedly. “It is in the trying circumstances to which your Excellency has
been exposed that the virtues of a great mind are displayed in their brightest luster,”
he wrote, claiming that the unforeseen storm had stolen a major prize from the
admiral.8 As part of the effort to repair frayed relations, John Hancock hosted a
gleaming banquet at his Beacon Hill mansion in Boston, where the count was presented with a portrait of Washington. “I never saw a man so glad at possessing his
sweetheart’s picture, as the admiral was to receive yours,” Lafayette reported from
the scene.9
For Washington, the French alliance never ﬂowed smoothly. The bulk of France’s
ﬂeet remained based in the Caribbean, which hindered joint operations, and the alliance with a mighty power placed Washington in an uncomfortably subservient
position. By now he was accustomed to command, and a junior partnership didn’t
suit his strong-willed nature. He admired French military know-how, but as an
outwardly cool and reticent personality, he had limited patience with French histrionics. That summer he described the French as “a people old in war, very strict
in military etiquette, and apt to take ﬁre where others scarcely seem warmed.”10
Whenever he wrote to Count d’Estaing, his language seemed to grow more stilted,
as if he were trying to ape French diplomatic language, and it never sounded quite
natural. Somewhere inside Washington there still lurked the insecure provincial,
trying to impress these snobbish Europeans.
Compared to their American counterparts, the French, in their handsome white
uniforms, looked positively foppish, right down to their high-heeled shoes. On the
eve of one operation with the French, Washington ordered his ﬁeld ofﬁcers to ﬁx
upon a uniform look for regimental clothing, explaining that “it has a very odd
appearance, especially to foreigners, to see the same corps of ofﬁcers each differing
from the other in fashion of the facings, sleeves, and pockets, of their coats.”11 The
French condescended to American soldiers, especially the militia. “I have never seen
a more laughable spectacle,” said one French ofﬁcer. “All the tailors and apothecaries in the country must have been called out . . . They were mounted on bad nags
and looked like a ﬂock of ducks in cross belts.”12
The Franco-American partnership soon gave way to reciprocal disillusionment.
The French had imagined that Washington commanded an army double the size
of the one they found, while Washington had hoped for more than four thousand
French troops. His skepticism about French motives would harden into a cornerstone of his foreign policy. His fellow citizens, he thought, were too ready to glorify
France, which had entered the war to damage Britain, not to aid the Americans.
“Men are very apt to run into extremes,” he warned Henry Laurens. “Hatred to England may carry some into an excess of conﬁdence in France, especially when motives of gratitude are thrown into the scale.”13 John Adams summed up the situation

350

r! The Gener a l

memorably when he said that the French foreign minister kept “his hand under our
chin to prevent us from drowning, but not to lift our heads out of water.”14 In yet
another sign of his growing political acumen, Washington generalized this perception into an enduring truth of foreign policy, noting that “it is a maxim founded
on the universal experience of mankind that no nation is to be trusted farther than
it is bound by its interest.”15 For Washington, the Continental Army was a practical
school in which he received an accelerated course in statecraft, completing the education started by the ﬁrst tax controversies in Virginia. One suspects that his dinner
table talk with well-educated ofﬁcers and aides, ranging over a vast spectrum of political, military, and ﬁnancial topics, made Washington well versed in many issues,
belying the notion that he was a narrow, uncomprehending leader.
The question of French motives acquired more than academic interest when
Lafayette advocated an invasion of Canada. For all his affection for his youthful
protégé, Washington retained an admirable skepticism about his motives. “As the
Marquis clothed his proposition when he spoke of it to me, it would seem to originate wholly with himself,” Washington warned Henry Laurens, “but it is far from
impossible that it had its birth in the cabinet of France and was put into this artful
dress to give it the readier currency.”16 If the French were embraced as liberators in
Quebec, Washington feared, they might be tempted to reclaim Canadian territory
relinquished at the time of the French and Indian War.
At ﬁrst, Washington hesitated to voice opinions to Congress that went beyond
his military bailiwick. Then in early November he sent Laurens a persuasive letter
that laid out his misgivings about a northern operation. Any such invasion would
introduce “a large body of French troops into Canada” and put them “in possession of the capital of that province, attached to them by all the ties of blood, habits,
manners, religion, and former connection of government.”17 Once entrenched in
Quebec, France would be well placed to control the United States, which was “the
natural and most formidable rival of every maritime power in Europe.”18 Of this eloquent statement of realpolitik, Edmund Morgan has commented that it “remains
one of the more striking examples of the quick perception of political realities that
lay behind Washington’s understanding of power.”19
Perhaps corroborating Washington’s worst fears, Lafayette went to Philadelphia
without seeking his approval and lobbied Congress for a Canadian invasion. To
Washington’s dismay, some members endorsed the proposal with unthinking enthusiasm. When Lafayette traveled up the Hudson Valley to confer with Washington,
the Frenchman fell ill with a high fever at Fishkill, New York, sixteen miles from the
Continental Army camp. When it looked as if Lafayette might die, Washington was
on such tenterhooks, according to Lafayette’s later ﬂorid account, that he rode over
every day to “inquire after his friend, but fearing to agitate him, he only conversed

Pests of Society r! 35 1

with the physician and returned home with tearful eyes and a heart oppressed with
grief.”20 By late November Lafayette had sufﬁciently recovered to leave for Boston,
hoping to catch a ship back to France for a quick visit and “present myself before
the king and know in what manner he judges proper to employ my services.”21

Th at fa l l t h e at mosph e r e grew thick with rumors that the British might
evacuate New York, but even though a large number of British ships sailed south to
destinations unknown in November, Sir Henry Clinton remained ﬁxed in the city.
As for winter quarters, Washington decided to house the main body of his troops at
Middlebrook, New Jersey, west of Staten Island, in countryside much prettier than
Valley Forge. Washington shared the home of the Philadelphia merchant John Wallace, who lived on the Raritan River, four miles west of Bound Brook. His extended
absence from Mount Vernon preyed on his mind, for it began to look as if he might
be trapped in some form of permanent exile. “I am beginning to throw the troops
into cantonments for their winter quarters,” he told brother Jack, “giving up all idea
this fourth winter of seeing my home and friends, as I shall have full employment
during the winter to prepare for the campaign that follows it.”22
While the Continental Army was better clothed than at Valley Forge, it hadn’t
solved all the problems of the previous winter, thanks to congressional ineptitude.
By now, Washington had become habituated to a draining atmosphere of a perpetual, slow-motion crisis. “Our affairs are in a more distressed, ruinous, and deplorable condition than they have been in since the commencement of the war,”
Washington insisted to Benjamin Harrison.23 He had learned a valuable lesson at
Valley Forge, where he had made the mistake of concentrating his men in one compact group. This time he scattered his troops across a broad area, extending north
to the Hudson Valley and as far off as Connecticut, a strategic dispersal that facilitated the hunt for forage and supplies. He also ordered the application of more
sanitary methods in the camp, forbidding earthen ﬂoors in huts and requiring that
they be roofed with boards, slabs, or shingles.
On December 23 Washington took a brief respite from his incessant labors and
traveled to Philadelphia to confer with Congress about the prospective Canadian
invasion. Perhaps in preparation for this trip, he ordered new clothing for Billy
Lee—two coats, two waistcoats, and a pair of breeches—that would do credit to
both slave and master in the city’s tony salons. Washington had already asked Martha to meet him in Philadelphia and she had eagerly awaited him there since late
November. They would celebrate their twentieth wedding anniversary in the city
that January. The Pennsylvania Packet noted with gratitude that this sojourn was
“the only relief ” Washington had “enjoyed from service since he ﬁrst entered into

352

r! The Gener a l

it,” yet the trip would prove anything but a vacation. Staying at the Chestnut Street
home of Henry Laurens, Washington got a view of civilian life that would revolt
him with an indelible vision of private greed and proﬂigacy. Like soldiers throughout history, he was jarred by the contrast between the austerity of the army and the
riches being earned on the home front through lucrative war contracts.
Ever since Valley Forge, Washington had lamented the proﬁteering that deprived his men of critically needed supplies, and he remained contemptuous of
those who rigged and monopolized markets, branding them “the pests of society
and the greatest enemies we have to the happiness of America,” as he erupted in
one ﬁre-breathing letter. “I would to God that one of the most atrocious of each
state was hung in gibbets upon a gallows ﬁve times as high as the one prepared by
Haman.”24 Because of hoarding and price manipulation, among other reasons, the
mismanaged currency had lost 90 percent of its value in recent months. As he contemplated these problems, Washington was also distraught over popular disunity
and wished that the nation could move beyond factional disputes, telling Joseph
Reed that “happy, happy, thrice happy the country if such was the government of it,
but, alas! we are not to expect that the path is to be strewed w[i]t[h] ﬂowers.”25
Broadening his critique of the political situation, Washington traced the source
of the nation’s problems to the very structure of the Articles of Confederation.
Deprived of taxing power, Congress had to rely on requests to the states. Instead
of dealing with such structural defects, the legislature had deteriorated into partisan backbiting. “Party disputes and personal quarrels are the great business of the
day,” he wrote, while the “great and accumulated debt, ruined ﬁnances, depreciated
money, and want of credit” were “postponed from day to day, from week to week,
as if our affairs wore the most promising aspect.”26 One can see here the seeds of
Washington’s later version of federalism, shaped by the fear that the public would
become so wedded to local government that the national government would be left
weak and ineffective in consequence.
Washington trod a ﬁne line in dealing with Congress, ﬁnding himself in an inherently contradictory position. He had far more power than any congressman and
felt it his duty to make his opinions known. On the other hand, ideology required
the military leader to submit to the wishes of Congress and acknowledge civilian
control. The situation demanded exquisite tact from Washington, who could exploit his fame only up to a certain point. This balancing act explains why he felt
both very powerful and, at moments, completely impotent during the war. In Philadelphia he met Conrad-Alexandre Gérard, the ﬁrst French minister to the United
States, who found him “cold, prudent, and reserved,” but nonetheless detected the
essence of his greatness. “It is certain that if General Washington were ambitious
and scheming, it would have been entirely in his power to make a revolution, but

Pests of Society r! 353

nothing on the part of the general or the army has justiﬁed the shadow of a suspicion,” he informed Versailles. “The general sets forth constantly this principle, that
one must be a citizen ﬁrst and an ofﬁcer afterwards.”27
As he tried to straighten out the nation’s affairs, Washington developed a ﬁne
rapport with the new president of Congress, John Jay, whom he had known since
the First Continental Congress. Despite their best efforts, Washington and Nathanael Greene found their serious work obstructed by an unceasing round of parties. To fulﬁll his duties, Greene said, he “was obliged to rise early and go to bed late
to complete them. In the morning, a round of visiting came on. Then you had to
prepare for dinner after which the evening balls would engage your time until one
or two in the morning.”28 The toast of the town, sought by every hostess, Washington was shocked at the decadent civilian life that contrasted with the hardscrabble
world of his men. He stared in outraged wonder at the stately carriages rolling by,
the opulent parties unfolding around him. It infuriated him that people feasted as
his men suffered. “Speculation, peculation, and an insatiable thirst for riches seem
to have got the better of every other consideration and almost of every order of
men,” he wrote.29 As Greene aptly noted, the city’s luxurious life gave Washington
“inﬁnitely more pain than pleasure.”30 He began to feel vaguely guilty about lingering in Philadelphia while his men still wallowed in poverty. By now he had developed something close to a mystic bond with his men and placed great store on his
presence among them. “Were I to give in to private conveniency and amusement,”
he told Joseph Reed, “I should not be able to resist the invitation of my friends to
make Phila[delphia] (instead of a squeezed up room or two) my quarters for the
winter, but the affairs of the army require my constant attention and presence.”31
When Washington returned to Middlebrook in February 1779, after a six-week
stay in Philadelphia, he and Martha tried to brighten up the winter camp. Since the
tin plates at meals had grown rusty, Washington ordered a set of china for the table
along with six genteel candlesticks. The fare was less spartan than at Valley Forge,
and the Washingtons entertained in modest style. As the surgeon James Thacher
said of one dinner, “The table was elegantly furnished and the provisions ample,
but not abounding in superﬂuities . . . In conversation, His Excellency’s expressive
countenance is peculiarly interesting and pleasing; a placid smile is frequently observed on his lips, but a loud laugh, it is said, seldom, if ever, escapes him. He is
polite and attentive to each individual at table and retires after the compliments of
a few glasses.”32 Thacher assessed Martha with an approving eye: “Mrs. Washington
combines in an uncommon degree great dignity of manner with the most pleasing
affability, but possesses no striking marks of beauty.”33
Washington remained a man of unusual physical stamina who was still strong,
manly, and youthful, while Martha had aged more quickly. One telling difference

35 4

r! The Gener a l

was that while George still loved to dance, especially with lovely young women,
Martha had renounced the practice. In November Washington had expressly asked
Nathanael Greene to have his young wife, Caty, come to the winter camp, and she
duly arrived with her little boy, George Washington Greene. At a dance in February
to celebrate the ﬁrst anniversary of the French alliance, Washington danced ﬁrst
with the obese Lucy Knox. Having done his social duty, he then indulged in an experience that recalled happier times: he danced all evening with Caty Greene. “His
Excellency and Mrs. Greene danced upwards of three hours without once sitting
down,” Nathanael Greene wrote. “Upon the whole we had a pretty good frisk.”34
Perhaps it was the aftereffect of the social whirl of Philadelphia, but Washington
now seemed more attentive to women. “It is needless to premise that my table is
large enough to hold the ladies; of this they had ocular proof yesterday,” he told one
correspondent, echoing a famous line from Othello. Henry Knox also arranged a
splendid ﬁreworks show for the celebration and boasted of the fashionable spectators who sat on a specially erected stage. “We had about seventy ladies, all of the
ﬁrst ton [French for breeding or manners] in the state, and between three and four
hundred gentlemen.”35
As at Valley Forge, Washington wondered whether he could retain his restive
ofﬁcers, who had grown disenchanted as they saw civilians pocketing huge wartime proﬁts while they lacked money to tide over their struggling families. “The
large fortunes acquired by numbers out of the army affords a contrast that gives
poignancy to every inconvenience from remaining in it,” Washington warned Congress.36 To stem the wholesale defection of ordinary soldiers, he offered land, clothing, and bounties of up to two hundred dollars to keep his fragile army together.
Amid these fears of a shrinking force, Washington’s twenty-four-year-old aide
John Laurens hatched an audacious plan to raise a black regiment of three thousand slaves from South Carolina and Georgia, who would win their freedom at
the close of the contest. Laurens had been emboldened by the success in recruiting
black soldiers from Rhode Island. At Valley Forge Washington had lent Laurens
qualiﬁed support, telling him that “blacks in the southern parts of the continent
offer a resource to us that should not be neglected.”37 Yielding to his son’s wishes,
Henry Laurens had canvassed congressional support for a scheme that would allow
blacks to ﬁght in exchange for emancipation, but he returned a somber assessment:
“I will undertake to say there is not a man in America of your opinion.”38 The idealistic John Laurens tabled the idea for a year, then revived it at Middlebrook.
Handsome, smart, and dashing, John Laurens was no ordinary advocate for
emancipation. His father had traded slaves on an immense scale, importing between seven thousand and eight thousand captive souls from Africa. The younger
Laurens had long meditated on ways to free these slaves and expunge the fam-

Pests of Society r! 355

ily taint, telling his father a year earlier, “I have long deplored the wretched state
of these men.”39 No idle dreamer, John Laurens was prepared to free his family’s
slaves as part of his program, which he saw as the prelude to general emancipation. In the aftermath of the overwhelming British victory at Savannah, Georgia, in
late December 1778, John Laurens warned that South Carolina urgently needed a
black force to avert “impending calamity.”40 On March 16 Henry Laurens wrote to
Washington and accentuated the strategic utility of the concept, asserting that if the
patriots had three thousand armed blacks in the Carolinas, “I should have no doubt
of success in driving the British out of Georgia.”41
By this point, with a heavy inﬂux of black soldiers from New England, the Continental Army had become a highly integrated force. But Washington knew that
it was one thing to train and equip blacks from the northern states and quite another those from the South. He must have wondered whether such an action might
someday sound the death knell for slavery at Mount Vernon. Like many southern
slaveholders who were uncomfortable with slavery in principle, Washington hoped
the institution would wither away on some foggy, distant day. By contrast, the Laurens plan was radical and immediate, with incalculable consequences. Washington
found Laurens’s motives both “laudable” and “important,” but he had pointed reservations about his plan.42
On March 20 Washington sent Henry Laurens a letter that threw away a major
historic opportunity. Although surrounded by staunch abolitionists such as Laurens, Hamilton, and Lafayette, he couldn’t break loose from the system that formed
the basis of his fortune. With his darkest fears as a planter trumping his hopes, he
cast doubt on prospects for the Laurens plan and advanced the dubious argument
that, if Americans armed their slaves, the British would simply retaliate in kind—
an odd statement, since Lord Dunmore had already raised American hackles with
his Ethiopian Regiment. Then Washington broached a still more deeply rooted
fear: that a black regiment in South Carolina might foment dangerous thoughts
of freedom among slaves everywhere. As slaves saw their black brethren marching
off in arms, it might “render slavery more irksome to those who remain in it.” Trying to wriggle free of this topic, which he obviously found exceedingly unpleasant,
Washington ended on a disingenuous note. “But as this is a subject that has never
employed much of my thoughts, these are no more than the ﬁrst crude ideas that
have struck me upon the occasion.”43
Overcoming doubts from southern delegates, Congress approved a resolution
on March 29 that might have paved the way for abolishing southern slavery: “That
it be recommended to the states of South Carolina and Georgia, if they shall think
the same expedient, to take measures immediately for raising three thousand ablebodied negroes.”44 The resolution proposed that masters would be compensated at

35 6

r! The Gener a l

a rate of $1,000 per slave, while armed slaves would be liberated at the conclusion
of the war. Because John Laurens was a member of the South Carolina legislature,
Washington allowed him to head home and argue his case in person. But that assembly, dominated by slaveholders, was scandalized by the Laurens plan and rejected it resoundingly, despite the security it might have afforded against a British
invasion. In a postmortem, Washington told Laurens, “I must confess that I am
not at all astonished at the failure of your plan. That spirit of freedom, which at
the commencement of this contest would have gladly sacriﬁced everything to the
attainment of its object, has long since subsided and every selﬁsh passion has taken
its place.”45
What Washington couldn’t acknowledge was that he himself had been lukewarm about the plan for self-interested reasons. Whatever his reservations about
slavery, he never showed courage on the issue in public statements, restricting his
doubts to private letters. Even before the war Washington had felt burdened by
slavery, not so much on moral grounds, but as a bad economic system that saddled
him with high ﬁxed costs from a large, sullen, and inefﬁcient labor force. Washington prided himself on being a progressive, up-to-date farmer and thought that
human bondage mired him in an antiquated system. Two months before being
chosen as commander in chief, he made a revealing comment about notices for
the sale of indebted estates that appeared daily in Virginia gazettes. Without “close
application,” he said, Virginia estates were forever doomed to lapse into debt “as
Negroes must be clothed and fed [and] taxes paid . . . whether anything is made
or not.”46
Even as he brooded about the Laurens proposal, Washington contemplated a
drastic plan to sell all his slaves and invest the proceeds in interest-bearing loan
ofﬁce certiﬁcates to help ﬁnance the war effort. Perhaps this made him reluctant to
press a plan that involved emancipating blacks. On February 24, 1779, Washington
sent a chilling letter to Lund Washington in which he pondered aloud a liquidation scenario. If America lost the war, he noted, “it would be a matter of very little
consequence to me whether my property is in Negroes or loan ofﬁce certiﬁcates, as
I shall neither ask for, nor expect, any favor from his most gracious Majesty . . . the
only points therefore for me to consider are . . . whether it would be most to my
interest, in case of a fortunate determination of the present contest, to have negroes
and the crops they will make, or the sum they will now fetch and the interest of the
money.”47 Clearly slaves were just another form of salable property for Washington,
and the only question was what price they fetched or what proﬁt they yielded compared to other assets. While he had scruples about breaking up slaves’ families, he
evidently had none about selling them, provided they stayed together.

Pests of Society r! 357

The dilemma of what to do with his slaves would hound Washington for the rest
of his life. Virginia still lacked a free labor force, and, at bottom, he probably could
not ﬁgure out how to farm in the absence of slaves. So however much he admired
the economies of the New England and mid-Atlantic states in which he spent the
war, he did not see how he could re-create that freer world at home.

chapter thirty

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

The Storm Thickens

I n f r a m i ng p ol ic y toward Native Americans, George Washington spoke in
many conﬂicting voices. As an inveterate speculator in western lands and a military
man with ﬁrsthand knowledge of Indian raids on frontier outposts, he was capable
of railing against Indians as savages who committed barbaric acts. In a less-thanenlightened letter of 1773, he told George William Fairfax that the colonists had “a
cruel and bloodthirsty enemy upon our backs, the Indians . . . with whom a general
war is inevitable.”1 Yet this same man could sound sage and statesmanlike in urging his countrymen to treat the Indians fairly and coexist with them in peace. He
always advocated buying Indian lands “in preference to attempting to drive them
by force of arms out of their country.”2 Frequently he manifested horror at the
avarice of real estate speculators and the wanton depredations of settlers against
Native American communities. His tone, however, varied subtly with the audience
and the situation.
The American Revolution did not give Washington the option of developing a
broad-minded Indian policy, especially when dealing with the Six Nations of the
Iroquois Confederacy. These proud warriors felt more endangered by American
westward expansion than by British policy, which had banned settlements beyond
the Alleghenies, starting with the 1763 proclamation that had so infuriated the
young Washington. The Six Nations weren’t uniformly pro-British—the Oneidas
sided with the Americans—but such ﬁne distinctions often got overlooked in the
heat of battle.
Of special concern to Washington was the capable Mohawk chieftain Joseph
Brant, who had plotted with the British to attack American settlements in the Mo-

The Storm Thickens r! 359

hawk Valley of upstate New York. In November 1778 Brant took three hundred Seneca Indians, united them with two Tory companies under Major Walter Butler, and
ravaged an American settlement at Cherry Valley, New York: they set ﬁre to the
village and killed more than thirty settlers. The attack generated hair-raising stories
of atrocities, some credible tales of scalpings, others far-fetched claims of cannibalism. The assault produced such outrage that Washington had no choice but to
take decisive action. “It is in the highest degree distressing to have our frontier so
continually harassed by this collection of banditti under Brant and Butler,” he told
General Edward Hand, warning of retaliatory measures.3
At various junctures Washington extended diplomatic overtures to the Indians.
As early as January 1776 he had presided over a parley of Indian sachems. John
Adams was then visiting the camp, and Washington, with a droll ﬂight of fancy,
introduced him as belonging to the “Grand Council Fire at Philadelphia.”4 During
the Middlebrook winter of 1778–79, Washington invited Native American chieftains
to tour the camp and witness the size of his army. James Thacher wrote how his brigade was “paraded for the purpose of being reviewed by General Washington and a
number of Indian chiefs . . . His Excellency, with his usual dignity, [was] followed by
his mulatto servant Bill, riding a beautiful gray steed.”5 The French alliance helped
Washington to woo Indian tribes that were erstwhile French supporters. Nonetheless most tribes made the rational, if ultimately calamitous, decision that they had
to protect their homelands and that the best way to do so was by supporting Great
Britain, which they thought more likely to win the war.
By March 1779 Washington had steeled himself to act ruthlessly against the Six
Nations and resort to cold-blooded warfare against civilians as well as warriors. His
aim, he told Horatio Gates, was to “chastise and intimidate” these foes and “cut off
their settlements, destroy their next year’s crops, and do them every other mischief
of which time and circumstances will permit.”6 Even when Cayuga Indians sent
out peace feelers in early May, Washington dismissed them as mere tactical ploys.
“A disposition to peace in these people can only be ascribed to an apprehension of
danger,” he told Congress, “and would last no longer than till it was over and an opportunity offered to resume their hostility with safety and success.”7
Fearful of further Indian defections to the British, Washington entertained six
Delaware Indian chieftains on May 12. He thought that, as long-standing Iroquois
enemies, they might be drawn squarely into the American camp. His speech to
them began bluntly: “Brothers, I am a warrior. My words are few and plain, but
I will make good what I say. ’Tis my business to destroy all the enemies of these
states and to protect their friends.”8 He scorned the British as a “boasting people”
who didn’t deliver on promises and contrasted them with the trustworthy French:
“Now the Great King of France is become our good brother and ally. He has taken

360

r! The Gener a l

up the hatchet with us and we have sworn never to bury it till we have punished the
English.”9 The speech, likely drafted by an aide, included Washington’s most explicit
reference to Jesus: “You do well to wish to learn our arts and ways of life and, above
all, the religion of Jesus Christ. These will make you a greater and happier people
than you are.”10
From the safe distance of a carriage, Martha Washington monitored the curious proceedings, escorted by a gawking Lucy Knox and Caty Greene. As one
might expect from a genteel Virginia lady, Martha was taken aback by the Indians
and their seemingly outlandish regalia. “The General and Billy [Lee], followed
by a lot of mounted savages, rode along the line,” she told her daughter-in-law.
“Some of the Indians were fairly ﬁne looking, but most of them appeared worse
than Falstaff ’s gang. And such horses and trappings! The General says it was done
to keep the Indians friendly toward us. They appeared like cutthroats all.” The
editor of Martha Washington’s papers notes that this “letter, if authentic, has undergone editing.”11
Such diplomacy didn’t forestall the punitive measures Washington initiated
against Indian settlements three weeks later. Clearly in a vengeful mood after attacks on American civilians, he contemplated a drastic removal of the Six Nations
from their traditional hunting grounds and farms. He ordered General Sullivan and
about four thousand soldiers to march to the Finger Lakes in upstate New York
and the Susquehanna Valley in Pennsylvania and undertake “the total destruction
and devastation” of Iroquois settlements, grabbing women and children as hostages
for bargaining purposes.12 The Indians must have been forewarned, for Sullivan’s
men often swooped down on deserted villages, which didn’t stop the Americans
from reducing forty towns to ashes and incinerating 160,000 bushels of crops. As
Sullivan laid down this trail of devastation, Washington recounted to Lafayette in
jubilant terms how Sullivan had “completed the entire destruction of the whole
country of the Six Nations, except so much of it as is inhabited by the Oneidas, who
have always lived in amity with us.”13
Although Washington admitted that Indian families were ﬂeeing in terror, he
rationalized these harsh measures as ﬁt punishment for assorted cruelties practiced by the Indians on “our unhappy, frontier settlers, who (men, women, and
children) have been deliberately murdered in a manner shocking to humanity.”14
This wasn’t the last word on Indian policy from Washington, who still hoped to
develop friendly relations with even hostile tribes. “To compel a people to remain
in a state of desperation and keep them at enmity with us . . . is playing with the
whole game against us,” he told Philip Schuyler.15 Nonetheless the cumulative devastation wrought against Indian tribes during the war crippled their power and
disrupted their communities, causing incalculable harm and making them vulner-

The Storm Thickens r! 3 61

able to forced resettlement policies later inﬂicted upon them by several American
presidents.
“ Wa sh i ngt on wa s n e v e r v e ry g o od at wa i t i ng ,” writes the historian
Edward G. Lengel, “but that is how he spent the years between 1778 and 1781.”16 The
year 1779 was perhaps the war’s most sluggish, characterized by minor skirmishes
in lieu of major battles. Although Washington busied himself with espionage, the
Continental Army mostly settled into an indolent mode. Aside from the Indian
offensive, Congress was bent upon conserving money, forcing Washington into an
unwanted defensive posture as he awaited the return of the unaccountable Count
d’Estaing. He found it extremely dispiriting to be suspended again in a limbo of
inaction as the war dragged on interminably.
In May the major locus of ﬁghting switched back to the Hudson River, as Sir
Henry Clinton overran two American forts at Stony Point and Verplanck’s Point.
This placed the enemy twelve miles south of the American fortress at West Point
and made it seem as if the British might at last attain their strategic will-o’-thewisp—cutting off New England from the rest of the country. Washington hastily relocated his base of operations to New Windsor, New York, overlooking the Hudson,
where he could interdict British movements on the water. Afraid that its loss would
be catastrophic, he assigned top strategic priority to West Point. For his summer
headquarters, he chose the commodious West Point dwelling of a well-known New
York merchant named John Moore.
Washington doubted that he could ever dislodge the British from their new entrenched positions, but he had a general who warmed to the task: Anthony Wayne,
a ﬁghter by nature as much as by training. Born in Chester County, Pennsylvania,
he had been educated by his uncle, Gilbert Wayne, who found the wayward boy’s
mind inﬂamed by dreams of battle. “He has already distracted the brains of twothirds of the boys under my charge by rehearsals of battles, sieges, etc.,” Gilbert
Wayne sighed. “During noon, in place of the usual games of amusement, he has the
boys employed in throwing up redoubts, skirmishing, etc.”17 A surveyor and a tanner before the war, then a member of Pennsylvania’s assembly, Wayne had gained
Washington’s admiration for his bravery at Brandywine Creek, Germantown, and
Monmouth Court House. He fought with often-bloodthirsty glee, shouting to his
men, “I believe that [a] sanguine God is rather thirsty for human gore!”18 This
rabble-rousing style earned him the nickname of “Mad Anthony” Wayne.
Bluff and familiar, Wayne was a great favorite among his men. Washington’s
coolly reserved style of leadership was so antithetical to Wayne’s that he admired
this impetuous ofﬁcer with reservations. Washington found Wayne, for all his courage, imprudent and cursed by erratic judgment. As president, Washington would

3 62

r! The Gener a l

render this mixed appraisal of him: “More active and enterprising than judicious
and cautious . . . Open to ﬂattery, vain, easily imposed upon, and is liable to be
drawn into scrapes. Too indulgent . . . to his ofﬁcers and men. Whether sober, or a
little addicted to the bottle, I know not.”19 On the other hand, Washington knew that
Wayne was an effective missile if ﬁred with accuracy. While crediting Wayne’s bravery, Thomas Jefferson contended that he was the sort of obstinate man who might
“run his head against a wall where success was both impossible and useless.”20
Washington chose Wayne to lead a picked force of 1,350 infantry to mount a surprise raid against the new British outpost at Stony Point. The commander sketched
out a plan to scale the 150-foot-high cliff overhanging the river, prompting Wayne,
according to legend, to boast, “I’ll storm hell, sir, if you’ll make the plans!”21 To which
Washington retorted drily, “Better try Stony Point ﬁrst, general.”22 On the night of
July 15 Wayne and his men approached the promontory with ﬁxed bayonets, so as
not to alert the British. When Wayne’s head was grazed by a musket ball, he cried out,
“Carry me into the fort and let me die at the head of my column.”23 True to form,
he pushed up the bluff and overran the fort, slaying sixty-three British soldiers and
taking ﬁve hundred prisoners, in a virtuoso performance. He sent a courier to Washington to announce the victory, writing with customary spirit, “Dear General, The
fort and garrison with Colonel Johnston are ours. Our ofﬁcers and men behaved like
men who are determined to be free. Yours most sincerely, Ant[hon]y Wayne.” Never
loath to credit his ofﬁcers, Washington trumpeted Wayne’s virtues to Congress: “He
improved upon the plan recommended by me and executed it in a manner that does
signal honor to his judgment and to his bravery.”24 The victory stopped the enemy’s
northward advance up the Hudson Valley at a time when a gunpowder shortage had
virtually ruled out large-scale American operations.
Washington gradually resigned himself to a lull in the ﬁghting. Bafﬂed by the
movements of his French allies, he concluded that America needed another European power if it ever hoped to match British superiority at sea. In late September that wish was fulﬁlled when he received news that Spain had entered the war
against England. “The declaration of Spain in favor of France has given universal
joy to every Whig,” Washington wrote to Lafayette, “while the poor Tory droops
like a withering ﬂower under a declining sun.”25 It turned out that Spain was more
interested in harassing the British monarchy than in fostering American independence, which might threaten Spanish territories in North America. Before long a
subdued Washington realized that no sudden windfalls would result from Spanish
intervention. “We ought not to deceive ourselves,” he wrote the following spring.
“The maritime resources of Great Britain are more substantial and real than those
of France and Spain united.”26 For this reason Washington was overjoyed by news
that autumn that John Paul Jones had armed an old French ship, christened it the

The Storm Thickens r! 3 63

Bonhomme Richard in homage to Ben Franklin, and defeated the British ship Serapis off the English coast. In the throes of battle, Jones thundered his immortal line,
“I have not yet begun to ﬁght.”27
Aside from Stony Point and an intrepid raid led by Major Henry Lee against a
feeble British garrison installed at Paulus Hook, on the west bank of the Hudson,
the summer was uneventful, leaving Washington with time to savor society. With
food plentiful, he could lay out ample spreads for visitors. Touches of whimsy and
ﬂashes of wit resurfaced in his letters. In mid-August Washington extended a dinner invitation to Dr. John Cochran that signaled a ﬂeeting return to normality:
Since our arrival at this happy spot, we have had a ham (sometimes a shoulder) or
bacon to grace the head of the table; a piece of roast beef adorns the foot; and a small
dish of greens or beans (almost imperceptible) decorates the center. When the cook
has a mind to cut a ﬁgure . . . we have two beefsteak pies or dishes of crabs in addition, one on each side [of] the center dish . . . Of late, he has had the surprising luck
to discover that apples will make pies. And it’s a question if, amidst the violence of
his efforts, we do not get one of apples instead of having both of beef. If the ladies
can put up with such entertainment and will submit to partake of it on plates, once
tin, but now iron . . . I shall be happy to see them.28

On September 12 the French minister, the Chevalier de La Luzerne, and his
highly observant secretary, François Barbé-Marbois, met with Washington at Fishkill, New York. Barbé-Marbois jotted down valuable vignettes of an unbuttoned
Washington, who personally squired them by boat to his headquarters and showed
that he was adept at navigation. “The general held the tiller,” recalled Barbé-Marbois,
“and during a little squall which required skill and practice proved to us that this
work was no less known to him than are other bits of useful knowledge.”29 Greatly
taken with Washington, the secretary found him becomingly modest, gracious, and
urbane: “He is ﬁfty years old, well built, rather thin. He carries himself freely and
with a sort of military grace. He is masculine looking, without his features being
less gentle on that account. I have never seen anyone who was more naturally and
spontaneously polite.”30
Accustomed to imperious ofﬁcers, Barbé-Marbois was charmed by Washington’s more democratic manner, which, contrary to the behavior of most generals,
had grown more pronounced as the war progressed. The Frenchman noted Washington’s cordial relations with his aides: “I have seen him for some time in the midst
of his staff and he has always appeared even-tempered, tranquil, and orderly in his
occupations and serious in his conversation. He asks few questions, listens attentively, and answers in a low tone and with few words. He is serious in business.”31 In

3 64

r! The Gener a l

another sharp departure from European formality, Washington engaged in sports
with subordinates and “sometimes throws and catches a ball for whole hours with
his aides-de-camp.”32 Aware of the impression he made, Washington knew that he
needed to exhibit sterling republican simplicity to the French as proof of American
virtue. “It was not my intention to depart from that plain and simple manner of
living which accords with the real interest and policy of men struggling under every difﬁculty for the attainment of the most inestimable blessing of life—Liberty,”
Washington wrote to Lafayette. “The Chevalier was polite enough to approve my
principle and condescended to appear pleased with our spartan living.”33
With his ﬂair for political stagecraft, Washington set up his dining marquee—
an oval tent with a dark green ceiling—on the Hudson shore, so close to the river
that the tide periodically tugged at pins holding the tent erect. Ever the attentive
host, he had musicians play a medley of French and American martial tunes. BarbéMarbois saw that Washington displayed quiet dignity in dealing with people and in
social settings allowed himself a “restricted gaiety.”34 “He is reverent without bigotry
and abhors swearing, which he punishes with the greatest severity,” he reported.35
At meals the self-effacing Washington allowed his young aides to propose toasts.
“All the generals and the higher ofﬁcers were there,” Barbé-Marbois remembered.
“It was interesting to see this meeting of these warriors, each of them a patriot
renowned for some exploit.”36 To add extra luster to the toasts, Washington ﬁred
cannon to celebrate the health of Louis XVI and Marie-Antoinette.
At one point Washington asked Barbé-Marbois if he had seen Lafayette in
France, and the secretary answered in the afﬁrmative, saying Lafayette had spoken of Washington with the “tenderest veneration.” Barbé-Marbois recounted
how Lafayette’s American exploits had elicited praise from the king. “Washington
blushed like a fond father whose child is being praised,” Barbé-Marbois wrote in
his diary. “Tears fell from his eyes, he clasped my hand, and could hardly utter the
words: ‘I do not know a nobler, ﬁner soul, and I love him as my own son.’ ”37 It was
yet another extraordinary proof of the powerful feelings surging beneath the seemingly placid surface of the commander in chief.
Two weeks later Washington wrote a voluminous letter to Lafayette in which
this outwardly stolid man allowed sentimental emotions to gush freely to the surface. His “ﬁrst impressions of esteem and attachment” for Lafayette, he said, had
ripened into “perfect love and gratitude.” Politely declining Lafayette’s invitation to
visit France, he noted that he was unacquainted with French, was too old to learn it,
and would seem “extremely awkward, insipid, and uncouth, . . . especially with the
Ladies,” if he spoke through interpreters.38 On the other hand, he pressed Lafayette
and his wife to visit Mount Vernon after the war and see “my rural cottage, where
homely fare and a cordial reception shall be substituted for delicacies and costly liv-

The Storm Thickens r! 3 65

ing.”39 Exactly how Washington transformed a slave plantation into a quaint “rural
cottage” remains a mystery.
In the letter, Washington presented a lighthearted but vivid picture of his own
ardent nature as a young man, as if Lafayette brought out some buried romanticism
in him. Washington asked Lafayette to tell the marchioness
that I have a heart susceptible of the tenderest passion and that it is already so strongly
impressed with the most favorable ideas of her that she must be cautious of putting
love’s torch to it, as you must be in fanning the ﬂame. But, here again, methinks I
hear you say, I am not apprehensive of danger. My wife is young, you are growing
old, and the Atlantic is between you. All this is true, but know, my good friend, that
no distance can keep anxious lovers long asunder, and that the wonders of former
ages may be revived in this.40

He ended on a somber note: “But, alas! will you not remark that amidst all the
wonders recorded in holy writ no instance can be produced where a young woman
from real inclination has preferred an old man.”41 Clearly Washington, forty-seven,
was lapsing into the wistful mood of an older man nostalgic for his passionate
youth. Whether he was thinking of Martha Washington or Sally Fairfax when he
wrote this confessional letter, we do not know. At the end, as if amazed at how he
had rambled on, he remarked, “When I look back to the length of this letter, I am so
much astonished and frightened at it myself that I have not the courage to give it a
careful reading for the purpose of correction.”42
Though French diplomats were impressed with Washington, he remained in the
dark about the plans of the Count d’Estaing. He heard stray rumors about his ﬂeet’s
return to northern waters and stationed Major Henry Lee on the New Jersey shore
to greet it, but he could not verify the information. The day after the state dinner
with the French, Washington wrote to d’Estaing that the British had beefed up their
strength in New York to ﬁfteen thousand men. Reviving his favorite fantasy, he wondered aloud whether the count planned to attack New York. Reduced to an almost
servile status, Washington had to beg for scraps of information about French plans.
“I have taken the liberty to throw out these hints for your Excellency’s information,”
Washington wrote gingerly, “and permit me to entreat that you will favor me as soon
as possible with an account of your Excellency’s intentions.”43 Washington yearned
to hurl the weight of his army against the British in New York or Rhode Island, and
he seeded New York City with spies to ascertain the strength of the British garrison—
all to no avail, as he felt increasingly powerless vis-à-vis his French allies.
In late September Washington learned that d’Estaing’s ﬂeet had appeared off
the Georgia coast. When another month passed without information, Washington

3 66

r! The Gener a l

vented his frustration to Jacky Custis, complaining of his ﬁckle French ally that “we
begin to fear that some great convulsion in the earth has caused a chasm between
this and that state that cannot be passed.”44 Then Washington learned that d’Estaing
and General Benjamin Lincoln had launched a disastrous foray to recapture Savannah. They had stormed British fortiﬁcations and suffered more than eight hundred
American and French casualties, leaving behind a “plain strewed with mangled
bodies.”45 Amid the general carnage, d’Estaing suffered wounds in the arm and leg
before retreating with his ﬂeet to the West Indies. As far as Washington was concerned, this unfortunate performance rounded out a misbegotten year of botched
battles, missed chances, and enforced idleness.
Resigned to the seasonal end of combat in the northern states, Washington took
the bulk of his army into the safe haven of a winter cantonment in Morristown,
New Jersey. Confronted by early snow and hail, the soldiers chopped down two
thousand acres of timber and roughed out a city of nearly a thousand log cabins. Washington—and a month later, Martha—took up residence in the handsome
mansion of Mrs. Theodosia Ford, a substantial three-story house with shutters and
dormer windows that must have seemed palatial compared to the compact Potts
house at Valley Forge. Unfortunately the unbending Mrs. Ford refused to yield two
of four downstairs rooms, forcing the Washingtons to share the ﬂoor with her. The
kitchen, in particular, was a scene of pure bedlam. “I have been at my present quarters since the ﬁrst day of December,” an irritable Washington wrote to Nathanael
Greene in January, “and have not a kitchen to cook a dinner in.” His retinue of eighteen servants “and all Mrs. Ford’s are crowded together in her kitchen and scarce
one of them able to speak for the colds they have caught.”46 To accommodate his
aides, Washington completed a couple of rooms upstairs and constructed an adjoining log cabin for daytime duties.
Washington braced for a winter that, for sheer misery, threatened to rival the
trials of Valley Forge. As early as October, there wasn’t a single pair of shoes in army
depots, and the situation was equally lamentable for shirts, overalls, and blankets.
Since the Continental currency now fetched only three cents to the dollar, Congress
stopped printing money and appealed to the states to pay their own troops. As the
latter issued their own paper currency, prices soared even further. Washington captured graphically the ruinous hyperinﬂation when he told John Jay that “a wagon
load of money will scarcely purchase a wagon load of provisions.”47 To Gouverneur
Morris, he protested, “A rat, in the shape of a horse, is not to be bought at this time
for less than £200.”48 He took seriously intelligence reports that the British in Philadelphia had purloined reams of the paper used to print currency and planned to
crush the rebellion by swamping the country with counterfeit money.
Washington faced double jeopardy from the debased currency. Besides placing

The Storm Thickens r! 3 6 7

goods beyond the budget of his quartermasters, it was whittling away his personal
fortune. Like many rich planters, Washington had large loans outstanding in Virginia that were being repaid in debased currency. As he complained to his brotherin-law, “I am now receiving a shilling in the pound in discharge of bonds which
ought to have been paid me and would have been realized before I left Virginia, but
for my indulgence to the debtors.”49 Washington estimated that personal losses occasioned by his absence from home had swollen to ten thousand pounds. Further
embittering him was the selﬁsh behavior of Jacky Custis, who stalled in settling
debts to him so he could repay in cheaper currency. Washington, ﬁnally losing his
temper, scolded his stepson: “You might as well attempt to pay me in old newspapers and almanacs, with which I can purchase nothing.”50 For political reasons,
Washington accepted payment for land in Continental currency, so he wouldn’t be
seen as questioning American credit, but by the summer of 1779 he could no longer
afford these massive losses and discontinued the practice.
The previous winter Washington had been sufﬁciently conﬁdent of his troops
to risk a six-week stay in Philadelphia, but he now felt compelled to stick close to his
restive men, “to stem a torrent which seems ready to overwhelm us.”51 Reports from
New York told of mutinous sentiments brewing among the militia for want of food,
and Washington feared the contagion might spread to New Jersey. If Sir Henry
Clinton invaded Morristown, the Continental Army would be easy prey. Clinton
“is not ignorant of the smallness of our numbers,” Washington alerted New Jersey
governor Livingston. “He cannot be insensible of the evils he would bring upon
us by dislodging us from our winter quarters.”52 In mid-December he informed
Congress that his army had gone for days without bread, making its prospects “inﬁnitely worse than they have been at any period of the war and . . . unless some expedient can be instantly adopted, a dissolution of the army for want of subsistence
is unavoidable.”53 For Washington, it was one crisis too many, straining already taut
nerves. Worried that his army would simply disintegrate, he shed his stoic composure, and people began to gossip about his sulky moods. Nathanael Greene told
Jeremiah Wadsworth, the commissary general, that Washington was in a “state [of]
distress” and was blaming “everybody, both innocent and guilty.”54
As in previous winters, Washington was appalled by the lack of patriotism displayed by private citizens. He did not want to imitate British precedent and force
nearby residents to house ofﬁcers, but voluntary offers were not forthcoming. He
reprimanded men who plundered food or livestock from local farms and warned
his soldiers that “a night scarcely passes without gangs of soldiers going out of camp
and committing every species of robbery, depredation, and the grossest personal
insults. This conduct is intolerable and a disgrace to the army.”55 On the other hand,
he privately confessed that he felt powerless to stop this marauding.

3 68

r! The Gener a l

Then on January 2, 1780, thick snow began to descend on Morristown, accompanied by ﬁerce winds, and continued steadily for four days. It was a blizzard
of such historic proportions, said James Thacher, that “no man could endure its
violence many minutes without danger of his life.”56 Four feet of snow blanketed
the winter camp and drifted to six feet in many places, sealing off the army from
incoming supplies and compounding the misery of men shivering in their bunks.
Before the winter was through, the Morristown encampment would be pounded by
a record twenty-eight snowfalls. It would qualify as one of the most frigid winters
on record, so severe that New York Bay crusted over with ice thick enough for the
British to wheel cannon across it. Because the ice formed land bridges, Washington meditated a surprise attack on the British garrison at Staten Island. The plan
was for 2,500 men under Lord Stirling to cross over from New Jersey, destroy British supplies, and carry off sheep and cattle. Washington, who must have dreamed
of reliving the Delaware crossing on Christmas Night 1776, grew so enamored of
this plan that he worried the cold snap would end, thawing the ice. The plan was
shelved when the British picked up intelligence about it, eliminating the element of
surprise. Washington promptly conﬁscated the caps and mittens issued to men who
were to conduct the raid. The British were cooking up their own surprises. In February a British raiding party of three hundred men on horseback crept up stealthily
on Morristown in an apparent plot to kidnap Washington. When they couldn’t
traverse the deep snow, they turned back and abandoned the plan.
As a howling blizzard swirled around the Ford mansion, Washington ﬁled a
dreary report with Congress: “Many of the [men] have been four or ﬁve days without meat entirely and short of bread and none but on very scanty supplies.”57 Horror stories abounded of ill-clad men gnawing tree bark or cooking shoes or dining
on pet dogs. Washington said his men were eating every kind of horse food but hay.
As at Valley Forge, they were starving in the midst of fertile farming country, adding
an extra dimension of tragic gloom to their suffering. As Greene lamented, “A country overﬂowing with plenty are now suffering an army, employed for the defense
of everything that is dear and valuable, to perish for want of food.”58 Even forced
requisitions didn’t alleviate the abominable situation. As late as April 12 Washington bewailed the perilous scarcity of food: “We have not at this day one ounce of
meat, fresh or salt, in the magazine,” and he didn’t know of any carts loaded with
meat rolling toward Morristown.59 Further aggravating matters was the fact that
his army hadn’t been paid in months. Alexander Hamilton, never one to shy away
from strong opinions, probably spoke for many soldiers when he wrote, “We begin
to hate the country for its neglect of us.”60 The winter wasn’t a complete loss for
Hamilton, who met and fell in love with his future wife, Elizabeth Schuyler, the
daughter of General Schuyler. The young woman never forgot Martha Washing-

The Storm Thickens r! 3 6 9

ton’s kindness: “She was quite short: a plump little woman with dark brown eyes,
her hair a little frosty, and very plainly dressed for such a grand lady as I considered
her . . . She was always my ideal of a true woman.”61
The war continued to serve as Washington’s political schoolroom. Once again a
harrowing winter forced him to think analytically about the nation’s ills. On both
the civilian and the military side of the conﬂict, he condemned slipshod, amateurish methods. America needed professional soldiers instead of men on short enlistments, just as it needed congressmen who stayed in ofﬁce long enough to gain
experience. Most of all Americans had to conquer their excessive attachment to state
sovereignty. “Certain I am,” Washington told Joseph Jones, a delegate from Virginia,
“that unless Congress speaks in a more decisive tone, unless they are vested with
powers by the several states competent to the great purposes of war . . . our cause is
lost.”62 “I see one head gradually changing into thirteen,” he confessed to Jones. “I
see one army branching into thirteen and, instead of looking up to Congress as the
supreme controlling power of the United States, [they] are considering themselves
as dependent on their respective states.”63
Washington viewed the restoration of American credit as the country’s foremost political need, and he supported loans and heavy taxation to attain it. While
ﬁghting Great Britain, he pondered the source of its military power and found the
answer in public credit, which gave the enemy inexhaustible resources. “In modern
wars,” he told Joseph Reed, “the longest purse must chieﬂy determine the event,”
and he feared that England, with a well-funded debt, would triumph over America
with its chaotic ﬁnances and depleted coffers. “Though the [British] government is
deeply in debt and of course poor, the nation is rich and their riches afford a fund
which will not be easily exhausted. Besides, their system of public credit is such that
it is capable of greater exertions than that of any other nation.”64 This letter preﬁgures the Hamiltonian program that would distinguish Washington’s economic
policy as president. It took courage for Washington, instead of simply demonizing
Great Britain, to study the secrets of its strength. Throughout the war, he believed
that an American victory would have been a foregone conclusion if the country had
enjoyed a strong Congress, a sound currency, stable ﬁnances, and an enduring army.
Not surprisingly, many other ofﬁcers in the Continental Army became committed
nationalists and adherents of a robust central government. One virtue of a war that
dragged on for so many years was that it gave the patriots a long gestation period in
which to work out the rudiments of a federal government, ﬁnancial mechanisms,
diplomatic alliances, and other elements of a modern nation-state.
The hardship of the Morristown winter persisted well into the spring. On May
25 two mutinous regiments of the Connecticut Line, defying Washington’s orders,
burst from their huts at dusk, ﬂashing weapons, and declared they would either

370

r! The Gener a l

return home or confront local farmers to “gain subsistence at the point of the bayonet.”65 These men, not having been paid in ﬁve months, saw no relief in sight. The
ofﬁcers calmed them down without further incident, but they were no less distraught than their men. Instead of feeling resentful toward his rebellious troops,
Washington directed his anger at apathetic citizens who permitted this deplorable
state. “The men have borne their distress with a ﬁrmness and patience never exceeded . . . but there are certain bounds beyond which it is impossible for human
nature to go,” Washington warned Congress.66
In coping with this high-pressure situation, Washington receded deeper into
himself, as if afraid to voice his true feelings aloud, lest it demoralize his men. “The
great man is confounded at his situation,” Greene reported to Joseph Reed, “but
appears to be reserved and silent.”67 Martha Washington, who stayed in Morristown until June, told her brother-in-law that “the poor General was so unhappy
that it distressed me exceedingly.”68 At times Washington pretended to a deeper
philosophic serenity than he could honestly claim. “The prospect, my dear Baron, is
gloomy and the storm thickens,” he told Steuben, then went on to say, “I have been
so inured to difﬁculties in the course of this contest that I have learned to look on
them with more tranquillity than formerly.”69 In a revealing letter to Robert Morris that May, Washington noted, with restrained jollity, that in the absence of wine,
he had been forced to substitute grog made from New England rum and drink it
from a wooden bowl. Then he made a comment that suggested how his wartime
experience had dampened his general experience of things. When his “public duty”
ended, he told Morris, “I may be incapable of . . . social enjoyments.”70
What lifted Washington from the worst depths of dejection was the extraordinary heroism of his army, which had been reduced to eight thousand men, onethird still unﬁt for duty. Looking back upon the ghastly conditions of that winter,
he found the army’s survival almost beyond belief. To brother Jack, he expressed
amazement: “that an army reduced almost to nothing (by the expiration of short
enlistments) should sometimes be ﬁve or six days together without bread, then as
many without meat, and once or twice two or three without either; that the same
army should have had numbers of men in it with scarcely clothes enough to cover
their nakedness and a full fourth of it without even the shadow of a blanket, severe
as the winter was, and that men under these circumstances were held together, is
hardly within the bounds of credibility, but is nevertheless true.”71

ch ap ter thirt y-one

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

T he Traitor

I n t h e spr i ng of 17 8 0 Washington’s most immediate concern was the uncertain fate of the threatened American garrison in Charleston, South Carolina. Sir
Henry Clinton and Lord Cornwallis had set sail with a large ﬂotilla from New York
and besieged Charleston as the main theater of war shifted irreversibly to the South.
The American force was commanded by Major General Benjamin Lincoln, a husky
former farmer from Massachusetts. Lincoln was popular and widely respected, and
Washington credited him with being “an active, spirited, sensible man.”1 The commander in chief remained a far-off observer of the Charleston deadlock, however,
since Congress and the Board of War had deprived him of jurisdiction over the
southern department, and he didn’t care to quarrel with this blatantly political
decision.
Queasily aware of what the loss of a major seaport would mean, Washington
prophesied that the fall of Charleston would probably “involve the most calamitous
consequences to the whole state of South Carolina, and even perhaps beyond it.”2
At the very least it would expose the Carolinas to merciless British raids. By massing
his men in the coastal city, Lincoln had left the interior pretty much defenseless. “It
is putting much to the hazard,” Washington conﬁded to Steuben. “I have the greatest
reliance on General Lincoln’s prudence, but I cannot forbear dreading the event.”3
Washington’s dread was not misplaced. On May 12, 1780, Charleston capitulated
to the British, and 2,571 Continental soldiers, 343 artillery pieces, and almost 6,000
muskets fell into enemy hands. Under the arcane rituals of eighteenth-century warfare, defeated forces were typically allowed to surrender with dignity and march out
with their colors ﬂying proudly. To shame the Americans, the British forbade them

372

r! The Gener a l

this customary honor, forcing them to lay down their arms in humiliated silence.
The defeated soldiers then faced the unpleasant choice of either becoming prisoners of war or returning home with a solemn vow to refrain from further ﬁghting,
reverting to loyal British subjects.
As he reﬂected on this devastating blow, Washington sounded alternately bitter
and philosophical. He believed the British had expertly timed their campaign to
exploit his army’s weakness at Morristown and knew this resounding victory would
“give spirit to our enemies.”4 He also suspected the British would use Charleston as
a springboard to launch incursions into the Carolinas and Virginia. True to his prediction, Clinton, while steering a large portion of his forces back to New York, left
Cornwallis with a sizable force to terrorize the South. At the same time Washington
wondered whether the British had now stretched themselves too thin, forcing them
to pay a steep price in blood and treasure to maintain this faraway outpost.
With the American treasury empty, Washington could not contemplate a potent
offensive campaign without French largesse. That winter the French had decided to
send an enormous expeditionary force to America, commanded by Jean-Baptiste
Donatien de Vimeur, the Count de Rochambeau. It was the ﬁrst time the French
had supplemented a ﬂeet with a massive army. France had elevated the illustrious
Rochambeau to the lofty rank of lieutenant general but, in a diplomatic concession to American sensibilities, agreed that he would be placed, at least nominally,
under Washington’s orders. The French ﬂeet under the Chevalier de Ternay would
also be subject to Washington’s control, yet after his frustrations with the mercurial
d’Estaing, Washington entertained no illusions about exercising any real inﬂuence.
The person assigned to herald this impending force was a natural choice for
the job. In early March Lafayette set sail for America, ready to resume his post as
a major general and act as intermediary between Washington and Rochambeau.
As soon as he disembarked in Massachusetts in late April, Lafayette, never bashful about his starring role in the American drama, rushed off a typically histrionic
letter to Washington that throbbed with boyish excitement: “Here I am, my dear
general, and in the midst of the joy I feel in ﬁnding myself again one of your loving
soldiers . . . I have affairs of the utmost importance which I should at ﬁrst communicate to you alone.”5 Washington grew emotional as he read the message. Then
on May 10 the beaming author himself strode into his presence, and the two men
eagerly clasped each other. Recounting this sentimental reunion, Lafayette wrote
that Washington’s “eyes ﬁlled with tears of joy . . . a certain proof of a truly paternal
love.”6 Washington lost no time in lobbying Lafayette for a Franco-American invasion of New York, which would possess the collateral advantage of lessening British
pressure on the southern states.
Uplifted by the splendid news from France, Washington pressed Congress for an

The Traitor r! 3 7 3

expanded army of at least twenty thousand Continental troops to cooperate with
their ally. As a matter of both pride and policy, Washington didn’t want the stylish
French soldiers to patronize his men in their tattered clothing, and he appealed to
Congress to rectify the matter. His army had come to a standstill, lacking money
and supplies. “For the troops to be without clothing at any time is highly injurious
to the service and distressing to our feelings. But the want will be more peculiarly
mortifying when they come to act with those of our allies.”7 In early July, with the
arrival of the French ﬂeet imminent, Washington was chagrined by the states’ failure to muster new troops or even keep him posted on their plans. He again blamed
the bugaboo of a permanent military force—the “fatal jealousy . . . of a standing
army”—for the shocking failure to buttress his army.8 “One half the year is spent in
getting troops into the ﬁeld,” Washington complained to his brother Samuel, “the
other half is lost in discharging them from their limited service.”9
When the French ﬂeet arrived in Newport on July 10, it proved almost anticlimactic. Only ﬁve thousand soldiers, it turned out, had made the crossing, and a
signiﬁcant fraction were unﬁt for service. No sooner did Washington learn of the
French dropping anchor than he received dreadful tidings from New York: Rear Admiral Thomas Graves had arrived in the harbor with a British ﬂeet of comparable
size. Washington dispatched Lafayette to confer with Rochambeau and Ternay, introducing him to the French ofﬁcers as “a friend from whom I conceal nothing . . . I
entreat you to receive whatever he shall tell you as coming from me.”10 In assigning
Lafayette as his go-between, Washington committed a terrible gaffe that betrayed
his provinciality. However blue-blooded Lafayette was in social terms, he had been
only a captain in the French reserve and was much too low in the military hierarchy to parley with a French lieutenant general with decades of service. Still worse,
Lafayette had tried to wangle the very assignment Rochambeau now held. Undeterred, Lafayette poured out ﬂattery so liberally that Rochambeau pleaded with him
to stop: “I embrace you, my dear Marquis, most heartily, and don’t make me any
more compliments, I beg of you.”11
Although Washington had resurrected his plan to besiege New York, Lafayette
could not budge Rochambeau and Ternay from their resolve to wait for more
French troops before setting their men in motion. The French balked at relying
on their American allies. Rochambeau was secretly appalled at the minute size of
Washington’s army and the bankruptcy of American credit. “Send us troops, ships,
and money,” he wrote home, “but do not depend on these people nor upon their
means; they have neither money nor credit; their means of resistance are only momentary and called forth when they are attacked in their own homes.”12 Privately
he mocked Washington’s plan to attack New York as absurd, given the beggarly state
of American ﬁnances, and blamed Lafayette for abetting Washington’s unrealistic

3 74

r! The Gener a l

fantasies. The French general would be two-faced in his relationship with Washington, pretending to credit his ideas, then doing exactly as he pleased. For political
reasons, both sides subscribed to the polite ﬁction that Washington was in charge,
but another year elapsed before the alliance with France bore fruit in a major joint
military operation.

I n t h e wa k e of the aborted “Conway Cabal,” George Washington had remained
unfailingly polite to Horatio Gates, even though he thought the latter still intrigued
against him. But his courtesy failed to mollify his implacable foe. In spring 1779
Gates protested to John Jay that Washington deliberately kept him in the dark,
which led Washington, in turn, to pen an acerbic note to Jay, relating how he had
sent Gates no fewer than forty letters in the last seven months of 1778. “I think it
will be acknowledged,” observed Washington tartly, “that the correspondence was
frequent enough during that period.”13 Far from snubbing him, Washington noted,
“I made a point of treating Gen[era]l Gates with all the attention and cordiality in
my power, as well from a sincere desire of harmony as from an unwillingness to give
any cause of triumph to our enemies.”14
After the British captured Charleston, Gates was appointed to command the
southern department of the army, and Washington refrained from comment so as
not to be accused of meddling from personal pique. If Washington quietly rooted
for Gates’s comeuppance, the British delivered it in shattering form near Camden,
South Carolina, on August 16, 1780. Gates deployed a force of nearly four thousand men, considerably bigger than the force marshaled by Cornwallis, but many
were callow militia. Determined British troops smashed through the American
lines and sent men ﬂying in terror. Only the detachment under General Johann
de Kalb tried to withstand the frenzied onslaught. The British cavalry under Colonel Banastre Tarleton—nicknamed “Bloody Tarleton” and “The Butcher” for his
take-no-prisoners approach—slashed at Kalb’s helpless men, while Kalb himself
was bludgeoned to death with bayonets and riﬂe butts. Educated at Oxford, from
a wealthy family, the young Tarleton was a beefy, redheaded man who was brash
and cocky about his exploits on and off the battleﬁeld. “Tarleton boasts of having
butchered more men and lain with more women than anybody else in the army,”
Horace Walpole reported.15 Having lost two ﬁngers in battle, he delighted in waving
his truncated hand and shouting, “These gave I for King and country!”16 At Camden, Tarleton’s men did their deadly work so efﬁciently that nine hundred Americans were slain and a thousand taken prisoner.
The debacle knocked Gates off his perch, especially after the terror-stricken
general scampered away on horseback and raced 180 miles before mustering the

The Traitor r! 375

equanimity to report to Congress. Washington, who had an unerring knack for
letting his enemies dig their own graves, was tight-lipped about the defeat. Still, his
loyal aides heaped scorn on the discredited Gates, who became the laughingstock
of Washington’s staff. “Was there ever an instance of a general running away, as
Gates has done, from his whole army?” Alexander Hamilton whooped with glee.
“One hundred and eighty miles in three days and a half. It does admirable credit to
the activity of a man at his time of life.”17 With the American defeat, Georgia and
the Carolinas fell under British sway, making Virginia more vulnerable to invasion. For the moment, Lord Cornwallis looked invincible. Drawing the moral for
Congress, Washington sidestepped Gates’s cowardice to concentrate on the militia’s
amateurish performance. “No militia will ever acquire the habits necessary to resist
a regular force . . . The ﬁrmness requisite for the real business of ﬁghting is only to
be attained by a constant course of discipline and service.”18
After the Camden battle, Congress relieved a chastened Gates of his command
and launched an inquest into his ignominious behavior. Gates had been the last
serious rival left to Washington, whose supremacy now stood unchallenged. Gates’s
downfall paved the way for the return to power of General Nathanael Greene, who
yearned to get back to the battleﬁeld. He had labored successfully at the thankless job of quartermaster general and was fully rehabilitated from the disgrace of
Fort Washington. Washington praised Greene for introducing both “method and
system” to army supplies and reposed more conﬁdence in him than in any other
general.19 Despite Washington’s patronage, however, Greene could be an anxious,
insecure man, very sensitive to slights. After the Battle of Brandywine, he had licked
his wounds when Washington didn’t single out for praise his division, which had
included a Virginia brigade under General Weedon. “You, sir, are considered my
favorite ofﬁcer,” Washington told him candidly. “Weedon’s brigade, like myself, are
Virginians. Should I applaud them for their achievement under your command, I
shall be charged with partiality.”20
Greene often experienced Washington as a difﬁcult, caviling boss, which was hard
for him as he needed periodic hand-holding and reassurance. In 1778 Greene wrote
a self-pitying letter to Washington that almost begged for praise: “As I came into the
Quartermaster’s department with reluctance, so I shall leave it with pleasure. Your
inﬂuence brought me in and the want of your approbation will induce me to go
out.”21 However brusque he could be to his colleagues, Washington was also ﬁnely
responsive to their psychological needs. He replied to Greene’s letter: “But let me beseech you, my dear Sir, not to harbor any distrusts of my friendship or conceive that
I mean to wound the feelings of a person whom I greatly esteem and regard.”22
In removing Gates from his command, Congress certiﬁed Washington’s consolidation of power by ceding to him the choice of a successor. Always sure-handed in

376

r! The Gener a l

dealing with Congress, he decided to “nominate” Nathanael Greene for the southern
command instead of choosing him outright, and Congress conﬁrmed this superb
choice on October 14, 1780. The story is sometimes told that Greene initially rejected the demanding post. “Knox is the man for this difﬁcult undertaking,” he told
Washington. “All obstacles vanish before him. His resources are inﬁnite.” “True,”
Washington retorted slyly, “and therefore I cannot part with him.”23
Owing to the huge British presence in New York, Washington didn’t think he
could spare many men for the southern campaign. In giving Greene instructions,
he revealed his own remoteness from the southern theater: “Uninformed as I am of
the enemy’s force in that quarter, of our own, or of the resources which it will be in
your power to command . . . I can give you no particular instructions, but must leave
you to govern yourself entirely.”24 When Caty Greene expressed concern about her
husband being sent south, Washington made the magnanimous offer to serve as her
post ofﬁce and relay messages to her husband. “If you will entrust your letters to my
care,” he told her, “they shall have the same attention paid to them as my own.”25

A s t h e e n d of su m m e r a pproac h e d, it seemed more than a little peculiar that Washington still hadn’t set eyes on the Count de Rochambeau and the
Chevalier de Ternay. The simple truth was that he feared the American army might
fall apart in his absence and was too embarrassed by its frightful shape to chance
an encounter with the French. Aside from more men, he estimated that he needed
ﬁve thousand muskets and two hundred tons of gunpowder to ﬁeld a viable force.
When Lafayette informed him of Rochambeau’s express wish to meet him, Washington owned up to the problem: “With respect to the Count’s desire of a personal
interview with me, you are sensible, my dear Marquis, that there is nothing I should
more ardently desire than to meet him. But you are also sensible that my presence
here is essential to keep our preparations in activity, or even going on at all.”26 It
was an extraordinary commentary on his army’s enfeebled state. In late August
the bread shortage grew so alarming that he faced the severe dilemma of whether
to dismiss the militia because he couldn’t feed them or accept new recruits and let
them “come forward to starve.”27 In early September, in order to conserve food, he
sent home four hundred militiamen.
In mid-September 1780, accompanied by Lafayette, Hamilton, Knox, and an
entourage of twenty-two horsemen, Washington set out for his long overdue rendezvous with Rochambeau and Ternay. The spot chosen for the parley, Hartford,
Connecticut, stood equidistant between the two armies. Washington dealt with the
French from a weakened position: he had only ten thousand soldiers in his army,
half the number he wanted, and the total would be halved on January 1 as enlist-

The Traitor r! 3 7 7

ments expired. He thought it essential that Americans, not Frenchmen, should have
credit for winning the American Revolution: “The generosity of our allies has a
claim to all our conﬁdence and all our gratitude, but it is neither for the honor of
America, nor for the interest of the common cause, to leave the work entirely to
them.”28 En route to Hartford, Washington and his retinue paused near West Point
so that he could lunch with its commandant, Benedict Arnold. Pleased with Arnold
but apprehensive about the state of West Point’s defenses, Washington promised to
stop by on his return trip and tour the fortiﬁcations.
As Washington approached Hartford, then a humble village consisting of a
single road along the Connecticut River, French cannon thundered thirteen times
and local citizens broke forth in ecstatic cheers. With Lafayette acting as translator,
Washington and Rochambeau had their ﬁrst chance to size each other up. Rochambeau looked the part of a rough-hewn soldier who had put in thirty-seven years
in the army. Short and thickset, he had a scar above one eye and shufﬂed about
with a mild limp from an old war wound. Whatever his reservations about Washington’s military plans, he was tactful, even affable, at this ﬁrst meeting, but too
temperamental to keep his moods in check for long. Claude Blanchard, his chief
quartermaster, claimed that Rochambeau distrusted everyone and saw himself
“surrounded by rogues and idiots. This character, combined with manners far from
courteous, makes him disagreeable to everybody.”29
Perhaps because they had to humor a crotchety boss, Rochambeau’s staff were
instantly charmed by Washington. Blanchard professed to be “enchanted” with the
American general, who exhibited “an easy and noble bearing, extensive and correct
views, [and] the art of making himself beloved.”30 Washington suited the idealized
expectations of the world-weary French as to how a New World liberator should
behave. “We had been impatient to see the hero of liberty,” said the Count de Dumas. “His digniﬁed address, his simplicity of manners, and mild gravity surpassed
our expectation and won every heart.”31 Count Axel von Fersen found Washington
“handsome and majestic” but was perceptive enough to discern trouble behind the
placid countenance. “A shade of sadness overshadows his countenance, which is not
unbecoming and gives him an interesting air.”32 It is perhaps surprising that more
French ofﬁcers didn’t pick up the anxiety that beset Washington that summer.
As Washington and Rochambeau commenced their talks, it quickly grew apparent that the likelihood of a combined military operation that year was remote. Even
though Rochambeau paid lip service to Washington’s eternal plan to regain New
York, he insisted on ﬁrst having clear naval superiority and awaiting reinforcements
from France. On their second day, the two men drew up an appeal for additional
men, money, and ships from France. Although Washington and Rochambeau established instant rapport, their meeting yielded no immediate tangible results.

378

r! The Gener a l

Rochambeau’s afﬁrmation of Washington’s preeminence in the partnership didn’t
mislead the American general for a second. As Washington admitted ruefully to
Lafayette, “My command of the French troops stands upon a very limited scale.”33
At the close of the meeting, the Count de Dumas rode with Washington to a nearby
town and beheld the worshipful feelings of the populace toward Washington.
We arrived there at night; the whole of the population had assembled from the suburbs, we were surrounded by a crowd of children carrying torches, reiterating the
acclamations of the citizens; all were eager to approach the person of him whom
they called their father, and pressed so closely around us that they hindered us from
proceeding. General Washington was much affected, stopped for a few moments,
and, pressing my hands, said, “We may be beaten by the English; it is the chance of
war; but behold an army which they can never conquer.”34

If Washington had hoped that French and Spanish support would tip the balance of the war, the inconclusive meeting with Rochambeau left him despondent.
French naval superiority hadn’t yet materialized, and Washington had grown weary
of this interminable conﬂict with its American lethargy and congressional ineptitude. Writing to John Cadwalader, he noted plaintively how the year began with a
“favorable complexion” and seemed pregnant with wonderful events, but such optimism had been exposed as a delusion. The Continental Army had no money, no
munitions, and soon would have no men. “I hoped,” he wrote, “but hoped in vain,
that a prospect was displaying which w[oul]d enable me to ﬁx a period to my military pursuits and restore me to domestic life . . . but alas! these prospects, ﬂattering
as they were, have prov[e]d delusory and I see nothing before us but accumulating
distress.”35 Since the Battle of Monmouth, Washington had soldiered on for more
than two years without a major battle, and Lafayette told him of impatience at
Versailles with his supposed passivity. Washington replied that this inactivity was
involuntary: “It is impossible, my dear Marquis, to desire more ardently than I do
to terminate the campaign by some happy stroke, but we must consult our means
rather than our wishes.”36

I f Wa sh i ngt on t hough t his upcoming meeting at West Point with Benedict Arnold would revive his drooping spirits, he was proved wrong. In many ways,
Arnold had been a battleﬁeld commander after his own heart, a fearless daredevil
who liked to race about the ﬁeld on horseback, spurring on his men. Even George
Germain lauded Arnold as “the most enterprising and dangerous” of the American
generals.37 Like Washington, he had many horses shot from under him and “exposed

The Traitor r! 3 7 9

himself to a fault,” as one soldier said.38 In an ofﬁcer corps with the usual quota of
shirkers, braggarts, and mediocrities, Washington valued Arnold’s derring-do and
keen taste for combat, and he treated this touchy man with untiring respect. In fact,
Arnold was one of the few generals who seemed not to arouse Washington’s competitive urges or suspicions.
Impetuous and overbearing, Benedict Arnold was a short man with a powerful,
compact body. His penetrating eyes, aquiline nose, dusky complexion, and thick,
unruly hair lent him a dashing but restless air. Growing up in a well-to-do Connecticut family, he had been a bright, mischievous boy with an incurably alcoholic
father. His father’s drinking led to bankruptcy when Benedict was fourteen, a traumatic event that overshadowed his childhood. The boy was apprenticed to a relative who worked as a pharmacist, and then his mother died when he was eighteen.
The deep shame and poverty of his childhood produced an energetic, headstrong
young man who was obsessed with status and money. After opening a pharmacy in
New Haven, Arnold diversiﬁed into trading, became a sea captain, and engaged in
lucrative mercantile activities. Commercial success did not cool his temperament.
He was pugnacious, often resorted to duels, and was litigious when libeled. In the
early stages of the Revolution, he drifted into radical politics, starting as a captain
in the Connecticut militia, then rising through the ranks.
Arnold’s early wartime exploits made him a legendary ﬁgure. After leading the
impossible trek through the Maine woods in the failed mission against Quebec,
he constructed a ﬂeet on Lake Champlain and bade deﬁance to a superior British
force. Most notably, he turned in such a fabled performance at Saratoga that General Burgoyne gave Arnold, not Gates, the laurels for the American victory. When
Arnold took a musket ball in the leg at Saratoga, the doctors wanted to amputate the
maimed limb, but he scoffed at this as “damned nonsense” and refused to muddle
on as a single-legged cripple.39 This left him with one leg two inches shorter than
the other, giving him a pronounced limp and forcing him to rely on crutches for a
prolonged period. If Arnold was a blustery character who browbeat subordinates,
his heroism and war wounds encouraged people to make allowances for him.
The quarrelsome Arnold never forgot the slight he suffered in February 1777
when Congress passed him over in naming ﬁve new major generals, all brigadiers
junior to him. Even after Washington helped him to become a major general, Arnold still chafed over having lost seniority to these ﬁve men, and his bitterness
curdled into settled malice. He wasn’t about to be placated by anyone. When he visited Washington at Valley Forge, his injured leg, in which slivers of shattered bone
were embedded, was in such dreadful shape that two soldiers had to prop him up.
Washington sympathized with Arnold’s plight, naming him military commandant
of Philadelphia after the British evacuated in June 1778. During his time in Phila-

380

r! The Gener a l

delphia, Arnold set up a ﬁne household and courted the rich, fetching eighteenyear-old Peggy Shippen, who was half his age, and they wed the following year.
Peggy was trailed by rumors of having fraternized with British ofﬁcers during their
occupation of Philadelphia. For his part, Arnold was shadowed by allegations that
he had exploited his position as commandant to enrich himself. To clear his name,
Arnold demanded a court-martial, which found him guilty of two relatively minor
counts of misconduct, then let him off with a mild reprimand.
The whole episode lengthened Arnold’s extensive litany of grievances and convinced him that a conspiracy existed against him. As he told Washington, “Having
made every sacriﬁce of fortune and blood and become a cripple in the service of
my country, I little expected to meet the ungrateful returns I have received from my
countrymen.”40 He believed that Washington, during the court-martial, had withheld the unconditional support he merited, by maintaining a studious neutrality.
Afterward, Washington pledged to Arnold that he would give him “opportunities of
regaining the esteem of your country.”41 Unbeknownst to Washington, Arnold had
by now established contact with Major John André, adjutant general of the British
Army, and was prepared to assist Sir Henry Clinton in a secret plan to seize West
Point. Peggy Arnold, having befriended André during the British occupation, was
a full-ﬂedged confederate of the plot. Heavily in debt, the mercenary Arnold brokered a rich deal for his treachery, charging the British six thousand pounds sterling
and a commission in the British Army for delivering West Point into their hands.
In June 1780 West Point took on added importance. Washington feared that
Clinton might return from Charleston with a hundred vessels and aim a deadly
blow at the fortress. His worries were only compounded in July when Admiral Marriot Arbuthnot appeared in New York Harbor with sixty or seventy more ships.
Washington swore he would do everything in his power to shore up West Point and
other defensive posts along the Hudson River. At about this time Arnold rode up to
Washington on the bluff at Stony Point and asked if he had “thought of anything
for him.” When Washington offered him a “post of honor,” commanding the “light
troops,” Arnold blushed and grew ﬂustered. “His countenance changed and he appeared to be quite fallen,” Washington remembered, “and instead of thanking me
or expressing any pleasure at the appointment, never opened his mouth.”42 When
Washington met Arnold at his headquarters, his limp was unaccountably accentuated. Arnold had already impressed upon Washington’s aide Tench Tilghman that
he could no longer ride horses for long or undertake active commands and indicated his desire for the sedentary post at West Point. “It then appeared somewhat
strange to me that a man of Arnold’s known activity and enterprise should be desirous of taking so inactive a part,” Washington later reﬂected. “I, however, thought
no more of the matter.”43 Submitting to Arnold’s importunate wishes, Washington

The Traitor r! 3 81

announced on August 3, 1780, that “Major General Arnold will take command of
the garrison at West Point.”44
That September, not realizing that Arnold was in league with the enemy, Washington enjoined him to improve West Point’s defenses. Arnold pretended to embark on a whirl of improvements at the fortress, while continually weakening them.
He made it seem as if hundreds of men were hard at work when mere dozens were
enlisted. When Washington alerted Arnold that he would pass through the Hudson
Valley on the way to Hartford—“I want to make my journey a secret,” Washington
stressed—Arnold relayed this letter to his British accomplices, listing places Washington would spend the night.45 Had the letter not been delayed, Washington might
well have been taken by the British.
While Washington was returning from Hartford, Major André, traveling under
the pseudonym of John Anderson, slipped behind American lines to collect intelligence from Arnold, who handed him papers outlining West Point’s troop strength
and artillery, along with the minutes of a September 6 war council sent to him by
Washington. André tucked these tightly folded papers into his boot for safekeeping.
Arnold also gave him a letter designed to smooth his way past sentries, which read:
“Permit Mr. John Anderson to pass the guards to the White Plains, or below, if he
choose. He being on public business by my direction.”46 While returning to the British man-of-war Vulture, anchored in the Hudson, André was detained in Westchester
County on September 23 by three American militiamen, who stripped him and unearthed the explosive documents. In vain, he tried to bribe his way to freedom. That
André was elegantly dressed in mufti, outﬁtted in a purple coat trimmed with gold
lace and a beaver hat, became damning evidence in the trial against him. Unaware of
the signiﬁcance of the documents found on him, Lieutenant Colonel John Jameson
conveyed them to Washington with the following note: “Inclos[e]d you’ll receive
a parcel of papers taken from a certain John Anderson, who has a pass signed by
General Arnold.” André had asked to retain the papers, Jameson continued, but “I
thought it more proper your Excellency should see them.”47
Two days later, not yet having seen this letter, Washington awoke at dawn in Fishkill, New York, and set off with a long train of aides (including Lafayette) and guards
to breakfast with Benedict and Peggy Arnold. The couple occupied a roomy mansion on the east bank of the Hudson River, the former residence of Washington’s
friend Beverley Robinson, who had raised a Loyalist regiment. En route to the house,
which stood two miles below West Point, Washington made a detour to inspect several defensive positions along the river, occasioning banter from his young aides.
Lafayette reproached Washington playfully, saying how the young men awaited their
breakfast with the ravishing Peggy Arnold. Washington knew the coquettish charm
she exerted over his men—he had known her for many years—and said gaily to

3 82

r! The Gener a l

his aides, “Ah, I know you young men are all in love with Mrs. Arnold . . . You may
go and take your breakfast with her and tell her not to wait for me.”48 Two aides,
Samuel Shaw and James McHenry, went ahead with the message that the large party
of guests had been delayed but would shortly arrive for breakfast.
For Washington, it was a surreal day of curious absences, missed hints, and odd
anomalies that he did not piece together into a picture of outright treason. That
he found nothing suspicious in Arnold’s behavior for so many hours showed his
implicit trust in him. When Washington dismounted at the Robinson house at tenthirty a.m., one of Arnold’s aides, Major David Franks, explained that his boss had
been summoned to West Point on an urgent call and that Peggy Arnold lay abed
upstairs. After a more solitary breakfast than anticipated, Washington boarded an
awning-shaded barge, which ferried him across the Hudson to West Point, where
he expected to be saluted by his host. But Arnold did not show up, and everyone
professed ignorance of his whereabouts. The mystery only deepened as Washington
scrutinized West Point’s defenses and was shocked by their decrepit state, which
showed none of the strenuous attention promised by Arnold. “The impropriety of
his conduct, when he knew I was to be there, struck me very forcibly,” Washington
later said. “I had not the least idea of the real cause.”49
Late in the afternoon a puzzled Washington was rowed back to the Robinson
house. There was still no sign of Benedict, and Peggy Arnold remained incommunicado upstairs. As Washington rested in his room before dinner, Hamilton tapped
on his door and laid before him a sheaf of papers, including the letter from Colonel
Jameson. To his inexpressible horror, Washington set eyes on the war council minutes he had sent to Arnold, along with conﬁdential information about West Point.
Washington was thunderstruck. “Arnold has betrayed us!” he exclaimed. “Whom
can we trust now?”50 As he gave way to strong feelings, he struggled to get a grip on
his emotions. From his reaction it is clear that he was innocent enough, or trusting
enough, to ﬁnd Arnold’s treachery almost inconceivable. The supreme betrayal had
come not from Horatio Gates or Charles Lee or others long suspected of disloyalty,
but from a man whom he had trusted, admired, and assisted. Despite a healthy dose
of cynicism about most people, Washington had missed all the warning signs with
Benedict Arnold.
At this point Washington learned of an episode that made sense of his enigmatic
day. At breakfast that morning Arnold had been given some papers, had grown agitated, said goodbye to his wife, left the house abruptly, and disappeared. The papers
had alerted him to André’s arrest, prompting him to ﬂee down the Hudson to the
safety of the Vulture. Although Washington sent Hamilton and McHenry in hot
pursuit, Arnold had long since hopped on board a barge and found asylum with
his British masters.

The Traitor r! 3 83

It was Arnold’s aide, Lieutenant Colonel Richard Varick, who notiﬁed Washington of the delirious behavior of Peggy Arnold upstairs. He had found her roaming
the halls in a state of partial undress and coaxed her back into bed, where she insisted that “there was a hot iron on her head and no one but General Washington
could take it off.”51 In a drawing of Peggy Arnold done by John André, she looks
cool-eyed and cunning, with just a hint of a smirk, her tall beehive hairdo towering
above a small, pretty face. When Washington went upstairs to calm her, he found
her hugging her baby to her breast, her abundant blond curls tumbling across her
face and her dressing gown thrown open for easy viewing. She didn’t seem to recognize Washington. “There is General Washington,” Varick urged her gently, but
she assured him he was wrong. “No, that is not General Washington! That is the
man who was a-going to assist Colonel Varick in killing my child.”52 Peggy Arnold
seemed too wildly distracted to participate in anything so methodical as a plot.
“General Arnold will never return,” she informed her gullible male audience. “He is
gone forever, there, there, there.” She motioned toward the ceiling. “The spirits have
carried him up there. They have put hot irons in his head.”53
In cahoots with her husband, Peggy Arnold played her mad scene to perfection.
Blinded by chivalry, Washington, Hamilton, and Lafayette were duped by her lunatic ravings, if not aroused by her immodest getup. They assumed that Arnold had
confessed his guilt to her before ﬂeeing and that she was still reeling from the shock.
Lafayette wrote tenderly about Peggy Arnold, “whose face and whose youthfulness
make her so interesting.”54 Hamilton proved especially susceptible to her wiles. “It
was the most affecting scene I ever was witness to,” he wrote to Elizabeth Schuyler. For
a considerable time Peggy Arnold had “entirely lost her senses . . . One moment she
raved, another she melted into tears. Sometimes she pressed her infant to her bosom
and lamented its fate, occasioned by the imprudence of its father, in a manner that
would have pierced insensibility itself.”55 In dealing with Arnold’s wife, Washington
and Hamilton left something to be desired as psychologists. The sudden onset of her
madness and her exaggerated theatrics should have aroused their incredulity. “Mrs.
Arnold is sick and General Arnold is away,” Washington told the assembled ofﬁcers
when he went downstairs. “We must therefore take our dinner without them.”56
Washington had no idea whether other conspirators were still at large. With
impressive self-control, he sat through the four p.m. dinner without disclosing what
had happened. For security reasons, he sealed off the house and did not permit anyone to enter or exit. Stunned by events, he proved slow to take precautionary steps.
Hamilton, showing more initiative, took it upon himself to order a Connecticut
regiment to bolster West Point. In the early evening Washington issued rapid-ﬁre
bulletins to tighten security there in case Clinton tried to exploit the confusion with
a preemptive strike. Amid a mood of tense expectation, he directed troops toward

3 84

r! The Gener a l

West Point and served notice that the Continental Army might be deployed on a
moment’s notice. He also informed Arnold’s two chief aides, Franks and Varick, that
he had no reason to suspect their complicity with Arnold but felt duty-bound to
place them under arrest, a decision the two understood. The next day Washington
announced the terrible revelation to his men: “Treason of the blackest dye was yesterday discovered!”57 As in many major moments in the war, he traced exposure of
the conspiracy to divine intervention: “In no instance since the commencement of
the war has the interposition of providence appeared more conspicuous than in the
rescue of the post and garrison of West Point from Arnold’s villainous perﬁdy.”58
Washington soon received a pair of letters from the perﬁdious Arnold himself.
In the ﬁrst, written to Washington, Arnold blamed American ingratitude for his actions and presented himself as a patriot of a higher order than Washington. He had
the gall to ask the commander to forward his clothes and baggage, as if he had hastily absconded from a busy inn. The request was a commentary on Arnold’s vulgar
mind, but the punctilious Washington honored it. Arnold also tried to exculpate his
young wife of any wrongdoing. “She is as good and as innocent as an angel and is
incapable of doing wrong,” he insisted.59
The second letter was addressed to Peggy Arnold, and Washington did not dare
tamper with a sealed letter from a gentleman to his lady. Instead, he sent it upstairs,
unopened, along with a soothing reassurance to Peggy that her husband was unharmed. It is hard to say whether this chivalric behavior was foolhardy or sublime.
It shows that, for all the atrocities Washington had witnessed, he still believed that
well-bred people inhabited a genteel world, governed by incontrovertible rules. The
next morning Peggy Arnold, miraculously recovered from her madness, expressed
fear that “the resentment of her country will fall upon her who is only unfortunate.”60 Still convinced of her innocence, Washington asked whether she wanted
to be reunited with her husband in New York or with her father in Philadelphia.
Playing the wronged patriot to the hilt, she declared her wish to join her father,
and Washington drafted a special order guaranteeing her safe conduct. “It would be
exceedingly painful to General Washington if she were not treated with the greatest
kindness,” Lafayette explained to the Chevalier de La Luzerne.61 All the male actors
had played their parts perfectly in the tragedy of Peggy Arnold, unaware that the
performance was actually a farce.

At t h i rt y, Major John André was handsome, cultivated, and charming. Educated in Switzerland and something of a poet—during the occupation of Philadelphia, he had perused Benjamin Franklin’s library and engaged in amateur
theatricals—he was also a proﬁcient artist, skilled at drawing quick sketches of

The Traitor r! 3 85

people. In an oval portrait of André, he stares out with a powdered wig and gold
epaulettes and the soft, unformed face of a boy. In the eighteenth century soldiers
often identiﬁed with their social peers on the other side of the conﬂict because they
subscribed to the same code of class honor. André’s youth and gallantry touched
the imagination of Washington’s ofﬁcers. Hamilton visited André several times
at the tavern in Tappan, New York, where he was held captive and left breathless
with admiration. “To an excellent understanding, well improved by education and
travel, [André] united a peculiar elegance of mind and manners and the advantage
of a pleasing person,” he attested.62
The case of Major André became a cause célèbre because of his aristocratic manner and his controversial claim that he hadn’t really functioned as a spy. Nobody
disputed that he had been caught with concealed papers from the turncoat Arnold.
The spying allegation arose because he had crossed into American lines, donned
civilian clothes, and assumed a nom de guerre. André countered that he had come
ashore in uniform and met Arnold in neutral territory, but the latter had then lured
him into American territory. While making his way back to the Vulture, he had had
no choice but to shed his uniform and adopt a fake name. André asserted less his
innocence than his honorable conduct, telling Washington that he wished to clear
himself “from an imputation of having assumed a mean character for treacherous
purposes or self-interest.”63 The practical signiﬁcance of this esoteric dispute was
that spies were treated like common criminals and hung from the gallows, whereas
a British ofﬁcer in uniform caught communicating with an American spy would be
shot by a ﬁring squad in a manner beﬁtting a gentleman.
Although Washington understood the appeal of Major André’s personality,
he also knew that the plot to take West Point, had it succeeded, could have been
catastrophic, and this toughened him against lenient treatment of the prisoner. He
instructed André’s captors that he did not deserve the indulgences accorded to prisoners of war and should “be most closely and narrowly watched.”64 Intent upon
seeing justice swiftly enacted, Washington impaneled a board of fourteen generals
to hear André’s case in a village church in Tappan. André answered their questions
with such honesty and candor that his captors were moved. “I can remember no
instance where my affections were so fully absorbed in any man,” said Major Benjamin Tallmadge.65 It was one of those singular moments in wartime when class
solidarity overtook ideology.
Washington received a plea for mercy from an unlikely source. Benedict Arnold had the cheek to threaten Washington that, should he execute the adjutant,
Arnold would “retaliate on such unhappy persons of your army as may fall within
my power . . . I call heaven and earth to witness that your Excellency will be justly
answerable for the torrent of blood that may be spilt in consequence.”66 Arnold

386

r! The Gener a l

thereby rubbed salt into an open wound. “There are no terms that can describe the
baseness of his heart,” Washington said of Arnold.67
The board of ofﬁcers returned a guilty verdict against André and ruled that he
should die as a spy—that is, by hanging. André pleaded with Washington to allow
him to be shot by a ﬁring squad. Refusing to capitulate under duress, Washington
decided that André’s offense was so grave that he had to make an example of him,
even if it offended the sensibilities of many ofﬁcers. André was sentenced to hang in
full view of soldiers drawn from various quarters of the army. The decision rankled
Hamilton in particular, who already chafed at Washington’s exacting treatment of
him. “The death of André could not have been dispensed with,” Hamilton later told
Knox, “but it must still be viewed at a distance as an act of rigid justice.”68 Trying to
avert a hanging, Washington sounded out the British on a swap of André for Benedict Arnold, but the enemy declined the offer.
At noon on October 2, 1780, John André marched to the gallows. As he neared
the spot, he bowed his head to those who had befriended him and showed a serene
acceptance that startled everyone. “Such fortitude I never was witness of . . . To see
a man go out of time without fear, but all the time smiling, is a matter I could not
conceive of,” marveled the army surgeon John Hart.69 When André reached the
hangman, whose face was blackened with grease, he asked if he had to die in this
manner and was told it was unavoidable. “I am reconciled to my fate,” he replied,
“but not to the mode.”70 People heard him whisper to himself that “it will be but a
momentary pang.”71 Leaping upon the cart from which his body was to be released,
André took the rope from the hangman and tightened it around his own neck, then
drew a handkerchief from his pocket and blinded his own eyes. When told that the
time had come and asked if he had any ﬁnal words, he replied, “Nothing but to
request you will witness to the world that I die like a brave man.”72 His body hung
slackly from the gibbet for nearly half an hour before being cut down. André’s noble
conduct only enhanced the misgivings of those who thought he should have been
shot. It seemed hard on Washington’s part to refuse the request of a man sentenced
to death. Lafayette wrote to his wife that André had “conducted himself in such a
frank, noble, and honorable way that, during the three days we imprisoned him, I
was foolish enough to develop a real liking for him. In strongly voting to sentence
him to the gallows, I could not help [but] regret what happened to him.”73
Washington boycotted the execution. He had no special animus toward André
and shared the respect felt by his men. “André has met his fate and with that fortitude which was to be expected from an accomplished man and gallant ofﬁcer,” he
wrote to John Laurens.74 Clearly he didn’t relish hanging André, yet he also believed
he had to mete out punishment for a heinous crime that might have given the
American cause “a deadly wound, if not a fatal stab.”75 For Washington, who never

The Traitor r! 3 8 7

shrank from doing the right thing, however hard or unpopular, it was a lonely moment of leadership. Even as a young ofﬁcer in the French and Indian War, his justice
had often seemed stern and inﬂexible. As he told Rochambeau, the circumstances
of André’s capture necessitated the hanging and “policy required a sacriﬁce, but as
he was more unfortunate than criminal in the affair, and as there was much in his
character to [excite] interest, while we yielded to the necessity of rigor, we could
not but lament it.”76
By contrast, Washington’s desire for revenge against the villainous Arnold,
whom he saw as “lost to all sense of honor and shame,” intensiﬁed in the coming
months.77 He backed a scheme concocted by Major Henry Lee to abduct Arnold
from New York City. On the night of October 20–21 a sergeant in Lee’s cavalry, John
Champe, pretended to desert from the American army and convinced Sir Henry
Clinton that he was disaffected from the patriot cause. He then accosted Benedict
Arnold in the street and struck up an acquaintance. The idea was for Champe and
an American agent from New Jersey named Baldwin to grab Arnold as he strolled
in his garden one night and row him across the Hudson, making it seem as if they
were struggling with a drunken soldier. Washington endorsed the plan with the
proviso that Arnold be brought to him alive. “No circumstance whatever shall obtain my consent to his being put to death,” Washington informed Lee. “The idea
which would accompany such an event would be that rufﬁans had been hired to
assassinate him. My aim is to make a public example of him.”78 For their trouble,
Champe was promised a promotion and Baldwin one hundred guineas, ﬁve hundred acres of land, and three slaves.
Champe and Baldwin were set to execute their plan in December, when Arnold
was sent to Virginia, a state largely untouched by the war thus far, with a ﬂeet of
forty-two ships and seventeen hundred soldiers. Despite a warning from Washington, Virginia governor Thomas Jefferson procrastinated in summoning the state
militia, and Arnold swept into the state capital at Richmond, burning supply depots and buildings. The scheme to abduct Arnold had been foiled, but Washington
remained grimly implacable in his resolve to capture the blackguard. In February
1781 he sent Lafayette to Virginia with twelve hundred troops to pursue Arnold and
toughened the terms for dealing with him. Should Arnold “fall into your hands,” he
ordered Lafayette, “you will execute [him] in the most summary way.”79 Washington never did capture Arnold. In the spring Arnold wrote to George Germain and
suggested a neat way of seducing Washington to the British side. “A title offered to
General Washington might not prove unacceptable,” he wrote.80 In the end, Arnold
proved no better at reading George Washington’s character than Washington had
been at penetrating his disguise.

ch ap ter thirt y-t wo

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Mutiny

A f t e r t h e dr a m a of Benedict Arnold’s treachery, Washington returned to
the mundane issues that had long bedeviled his army, especially the abysmal food
shortages and barren warehouses that failed to supply winter outﬁts. His desperate
men started to swarm across the countryside, engaging in “every species of robbery
and plunder,” Washington reported.1 Earlier in the fall he had grown so distressed
over his men ransacking citizens’ homes that he had sentenced to death one David
Hall, who stole money and silver plates from a local resident. He assembled ﬁfty
men from every brigade to watch the execution and ponder its signiﬁcance. For all
his dismay over such misbehavior, however, Washington was far more livid with the
venal farmers who illegally sold “fresh meats and ﬂour of the country” to the British
Army, which feasted on ample supplies in New York.2
In late November 1780 Washington sent his army into winter quarters, assigning the bulk of them to West Point, while he lodged in a cramped Dutch farmhouse overlooking the Hudson River at New Windsor, New York. Depressed by
this “dreary station,” he had to requisition supplies from nearby residents to set his
meager table and pleaded with Congress for emergency funds.3 “We have neither
money nor credit,” he wrote, “adequate to the purchase of a few boards for doors
to our log huts . . . It would be well for the troops if, like chameleons, they could
live upon air, or, like the bear, suck their paws for sustenance during the rigor of
the approaching season.”4 Things grew so grim that Washington’s own horses were
starving for want of forage.
Perhaps it was the aborted plan to kidnap Benedict Arnold that planted the idea
in Washington’s mind of attempting a daring abduction of Sir Henry Clinton. On

Mutiny r! 3 8 9

Christmas Night he gave the go-ahead to Lieutenant Colonel David Humphreys to
row down the Hudson to New York with a small band of men, their oars mufﬂed
to avert detection. The nature of the top secret mission was disclosed only to participants, right before they shoved off. “I prefer a small number to a large one,”
Washington said, “because it is more manageable in the night and less liable to
confusion.”5 The party was supposed to land at Clinton’s house on the Hudson,
disarm the guards, pinion Clinton, then hurry back up the Hudson with their highranking prize. In the event, a brisk wind sprang up and blew the boats into the bay,
scuttling the operation.
On New Year’s Day 1781 Washington’s worst nightmares were realized when
thirteen hundred troops from the Pennsylvania Line, encamped near Morristown,
mutinied and killed several ofﬁcers. Much inﬂamed by rum, these men aired a host
of legitimate grievances: insufﬁcient food, clothing, and pay. After grabbing every musket in sight and six cannon, they angrily stormed off toward Philadelphia,
where they intended to intimidate Congress into providing relief. The insurgents
stressed that they acted under duress—“We are not Arnolds” was a favorite battle
cry—but they could no longer stomach the inhumane treatment inﬂicted on them
by politicians. Among other things, they could not tolerate that newly enlisted men
were being paid cash bounties while they had received no pay in more than a year.
The ranking ofﬁcer on the scene was the valiant but hot-blooded Anthony
Wayne. Washington encouraged him to stick close to his men as they marched
and not brake their movement until they crossed the Delaware into Pennsylvania.
Washington experienced an overriding fear of massive desertion or even full-blown
defection to the British—Sir Henry Clinton sent emissaries to entice them into exactly such treachery—and he thought it would help to stem such ﬂight if the river
stood behind the mutineers. Because his ofﬁcers warned of smoldering discontent
among the New Windsor troops, Washington feared abandoning them and tried
to screen them from inﬂammatory news of the mutiny. Taking personal charge of
the situation, he also worried about a loss of face if he ordered mutineers to desist
and they ignored him. Bypassing Congress, Washington wrote directly to the states
and demanded more provisions along with three months’ pay for the troops. Sympathetic to their complaints, if aggrieved by their methods, he spluttered in wrath
that “it is in vain to think an army can be kept together much longer under such a
variety of sufferings as ours has experienced.”6
The Pennsylvania Line stopped at Princeton and Trenton and never reached
Philadelphia. To squash the uprising, Wayne drew on New Jersey soldiers and summoned additional militia. He negotiated a settlement with the mutineers under
which half would be discharged and another half furloughed until April. The soldiers would receive certiﬁcates to compensate them for their depreciated currency

39 0

r! The Gener a l

and would be issued extra clothing. Although Washington accepted the expediency
of this bargain, he hated negotiating with disobedient soldiers. Wayne also decided,
with Washington’s blessing, to make an example of the ringleaders. He called out
twelve refractory members of the revolt and lined them up in a farmer’s ﬁeld before ﬁring squads made up of their fellow soldiers. One ﬁfer described this brutal
scene: “The distance that the platoons stood from [the condemned men] at the
time they ﬁred could not have been more than ten feet. So near did they stand that
the handkerchiefs covering the eyes of some of them were set on ﬁre . . . The fence
and even the heads of rye for some distance within the ﬁeld were covered with the
blood and brains.”7 When one ﬁring squad victim lay bleeding but still alive, Wayne
ordered a soldier to bayonet him to death. The soldier balked, saying he couldn’t
kill his comrade. With that, Wayne drew his pistol and said he would kill the man
on the spot if he didn’t obey orders. The hapless soldier then stepped forward and
plunged his bayonet into the writhing man. To ensure that the bloody message of
these deaths lingered, Wayne ordered the entire Pennsylvania Line to circle around
the dead soldiers.
Anthony Wayne had no qualms about his action and wrote proudly to Washington that “a liberal dose of niter [gunpowder] had done the trick.”8 Washington,
who could be extremely tough when necessary, didn’t second-guess Wayne’s reprisals. Months later he told Wayne, “Sudden and exemplary punishments were
certainly necessary upon the new appearance of that daring and mutinous spirit
which convulsed the line last winter.”9 Washington had long believed that mutinies,
if not stamped out vigorously, would only multiply.
No sooner was the Pennsylvania mutiny suppressed than the contagion spread
to the New Jersey Line in Pompton. As two hundred mutinous troops, giddy with
liquor, headed for the state capital at Trenton, Washington decided he had had
enough. He refused to negotiate with the rebels, demanded unconditional submission, and vowed to execute several of the leaders. To quell the uprising, he ordered
ﬁve hundred or six hundred troops under Major General Robert Howe to march
from West Point toward New Jersey. He also tried to impress upon the loyal troops
“how dangerous to civil liberty the precedent is of armed soldiers dictating terms to
their country.”10 Sending troops was a high-stakes gamble, since Washington didn’t
know whether they would ﬁre upon rowdy fellow soldiers, “but I thought it indispensable to bring the matter to an issue and risk all extremities,” he told Congress.11
On January 27 General Howe surrounded the mutineers, snuffed out the revolt,
and made an example of several instigators. He lined up a ﬁring squad composed
of a dozen mutineers and ordered them to execute two mutinous sergeants. Three
of the executioners were told to shoot at the head and three at the heart, while the
other six stood ready to ﬁnish off victims that lay squirming on the ground. Once

Mutiny r! 391

again Washington feared he would squander his authority if men disobeyed him,
and he kept his distance from the scene at Ringwood, New Jersey. Once he heard
that the New Jersey men had surrendered and repented, he took up their crusade to
lobby politicians for better pay, food, and housing.
A critical element of the relief effort lay in soliciting fresh money from France.
In December Congress drafted John Laurens as a special envoy to France, where it
hoped he would team up with Benjamin Franklin to wrest a huge loan from the
court at Versailles. Laurens, with Thomas Paine acting as his secretary, was to ﬁre
up French enthusiasm through compelling eyewitness accounts of the war. Because
of Washington’s renown in France, Congress also hoped that a certiﬁed member
of his military family would receive an effusive welcome. For three days Washington huddled with Laurens and Paine to forge a strategy. “We are at the end of our
tether,” Washington told them, “and now or never our deliverance must come.”12 He
deemed a foreign loan essential, since America had only a tiny moneyed elite and
Congress had mismanaged its ﬁnances. If he had to keep conﬁscating produce from
farmers, Washington feared that supporters would ﬁnd the Continental Army’s
methods “burdensome and oppressive,” defeating the idea of a ﬁght for liberty.13
Even as Washington jockeyed to keep his northern army from unraveling, the
prospects for victory brightened in the South. On January 17 Brigadier General
Daniel Morgan pulled off a spectacular victory at Cowpens, South Carolina, routing a veteran army under the notorious Tarleton. For once, it was the Americans
who spread terror by sprinting forward with ﬁxed bayonets. The tally of casualties decisively favored the Americans: more than 300 British soldiers were killed
or wounded versus a mere 70 Americans; 500 able-bodied enemy soldiers were
captured along with 800 muskets. Sir Henry Clinton later identiﬁed the Cowpens
disaster as “the ﬁrst link of a chain of events that followed each other in regular
succession until they at last ended in the total loss of America.”14 Washington celebrated the “decisive and glorious victory” and insisted it would have a dramatic
effect on the southern campaign.

I n e v i ta bly, the private appraisal of Washington by his close subordinates was
less glowing than their public eulogies. He was too much of a perfectionist to enjoy
an easy rapport with his aides, and his discontent sometimes festered before erupting unexpectedly. By dint of the superlative letters he had drafted and his military
acumen, Alexander Hamilton had risen to become Washington’s de facto chief
of staff. When Congress decided to create three new positions—ministers of war,
ﬁnance, and foreign affairs—Hamilton’s name was bandied about as a prospective “superintendent of ﬁnance.” Before Robert Morris accepted the post, General

392

r! The Gener a l

Sullivan asked Washington to comment on Hamilton’s ﬁnancial abilities, and the
commander seemed taken aback: “How far Colo. Hamilton, of whom you ask my
opinion as a ﬁnancier, has turned his thoughts to that particular study, I am unable
to ans[we]r, because I never entered upon a discussion on this point with him. But
this I can venture to advance from a thorough knowledge of him, that there are few
men to be found of his age who has a more general knowledge than he possesses
and none whose soul is more ﬁrmly engaged in the cause or who exceeds him in
probity and sterling virtue.”15
Although Hamilton subscribed to Washington’s values and principles—which
was why he could mimic him so expertly in letters—he expressed misgivings about
his personality. Hamilton had taken a long and searching look at George Washington. Working in daily contact with a man burdened by multiple cares, Hamilton inevitably was exposed to Washington’s bad-tempered side. A stoic ﬁgure who
strove to be perfectly composed in public, Washington needed to blow off steam in
private, and the proud, sensitive young Hamilton grew weary of dealing with his
boss’s varying moods.
Like many talented subordinates, Hamilton nurtured a rich fantasy life and
could easily have imagined himself in Washington’s place. He found a desk job,
even such a prestigious one, too lowly and monotonous for his tastes and dreamed
of battleﬁeld glory, repeatedly requesting a ﬁeld command. But he wielded such
a skillful pen that Washington was reluctant to dispense with it and turned him
down. In December 1780 he also scotched Hamilton’s chance of becoming adjutant
general, which would have jumped him over several ofﬁcers of superior rank and
thereby created endless trouble.
On December 14, 1780, Hamilton married Elizabeth Schuyler, which catapulted
the young West Indian into a more rareﬁed social sphere. The orphaned young
man must have felt buoyed by a sense of security altogether new in his experience.
That January he resolved that “if there should ever happen [to be] a breach” with
Washington, instead of settling their differences, he would “never to consent to an
accommodation.”16 In other words, Hamilton would not provoke a break, but he
was fully prepared to exploit one. The timing couldn’t have been worse for Washington, who felt beleaguered after two mutinies in New Jersey.
Because Washington was obsessed with punctuality, it probably wasn’t coincidental that his rift with Hamilton came when his aide kept him waiting. On
the night of February 15, 1781, Washington and Hamilton frantically labored till
midnight, preparing paperwork for a meeting with French ofﬁcers in Newport. The
next day Hamilton was going downstairs in the New Windsor farmhouse when he
passed Washington coming upstairs. Washington told Hamilton that he wished to
see him. Hamilton ﬁgured that Washington would wait in his ofﬁce, so he paused

Mutiny r! 393

brieﬂy to hand a letter to Tench Tilghman and conversed with Lafayette, then
turned around and headed back upstairs. He found Washington glowering at the
top of the stairs. “Colonel Hamilton,” Washington said testily, “you have kept me
waiting at the head of the stairs these ten minutes. I must tell you, sir, you treat me
with disrespect.” “I am not conscious of it, sir,” Hamilton retorted, “but since you
have thought it necessary to tell me so, we part.” “Very well, sir,” Washington replied,
“if it be your choice.”17 Hamilton estimated that two minutes had elapsed. Under
ordinary circumstances, the two men would have quickly repaired the damage, but
Hamilton elected to push things past the breaking point.
While Washington could be gruff, he knew when he crossed a line and was quick
to extend apologies. He hated friction with people and avoided personal confrontations whenever possible. Now he showed exemplary patience with the brashly capable
Hamilton. Instead of pulling rank and waiting for the young man to make amends,
Washington responded with a magnanimous gesture. An hour later he sent Tench
Tilghman to offer apologies and requested “a candid conversation to heal a difference
which could not have happened but in a moment of passion.”18 Hamilton was having
none of it. As he told his father-in-law, “I requested Mr. Tilghman to tell him that I
had taken my resolution in a manner not to be revoked; that as a conversation could
serve no other purpose than to produce explanations mutually disagreeable, though
I certainly would not refuse an interview if he desired it, yet I should be happy [if]
he would permit me to decline it.”19 Doubtless shocked by his aide’s intransigence,
Washington regretfully acquiesced in Hamilton’s decision to leave his staff.
Since Philip Schuyler was a friend of Washington, Hamilton knew he owed his
father-in-law an explanatory letter. He conjured up a moody, irritable boss and said
he had found that Washington “was neither remarkable for delicacy nor good temper.”20 He made the startling statement that he had rebuffed Washington’s attempts
at social intimacy. “For three years past,” Hamilton wrote, “I have felt no friendship
for him and have professed none. The truth is our own dispositions are the opposites of each other and the pride of my temper would not suffer me to profess
what I did not feel. Indeed, when advances of this kind” were made, Hamilton responded in a way that showed “I wished to stand rather upon a footing of m[ilitary
conﬁdence than] of private attachment.”21 Hamilton also portrayed Washington as
somewhat vain and insulated from criticism, a man “to whom all the world is offering incense.”22 If Washington promised him better treatment and succeeded in
inducing him to return to work, Hamilton predicted, “his self-love would never forgive me for what it would regard as a humiliation.”23 Evidently the young Alexander
Hamilton intended to teach George Washington a lesson. As he boasted to James
McHenry, Washington “shall, for once at least, repent his ill-humor.”24
Hamilton agreed to stay on temporarily as Washington sought a replacement.

394

r! The Gener a l

For a brief interval even Martha Washington was pressed into secretarial service,
drawing up a fair copy of at least one letter for her husband. Hamilton had suggested to Washington that they keep their altercation secret for the sake of the war
effort. Washington agreed and was then startled to discover that Hamilton had babbled about the episode to several friends, giving his version of events. To Lafayette,
Washington expressed astonishment: “Why this injunction on me while he was
communicating it himself is a little extraordinary! But I complied and religiously
fulﬁlled it.”25 Perhaps because he spied facets of his younger self in Hamilton, Washington was forgiving toward him, even when he tested his patience. He may even
have felt some secret guilt for not having rewarded Hamilton with the ﬁeld command he coveted. Whatever the tensions of their relationship, Washington never
shed his admiration for Hamilton’s outstanding abilities.
In April, having left Washington’s family, Hamilton began to badger his ex-boss
for a ﬁeld command, and Washington reacted with perplexity. “I am convinced that
no ofﬁcer can with justice dispute your merit and abilities,” he assured Hamilton,
but he didn’t see how he could promote him without offending more senior ofﬁcers.26 He feared that Hamilton would interpret his decision as belated punishment
for their rift: “My principal concern arises from an apprehension that you will impute
my refusal of your request to other motives than those I have expressed.”27 Once again
Washington had responded to their difﬁculties in a classy and digniﬁed manner.
Eventually rumors circulated about the temporary estrangement between the two
men. Years later John Adams recalled the episode thus: Hamilton “quitted the army
for a long time, as I have heard, in a pet and a miff with Washington.”28 On another
occasion, Adams wrote, “those who trumpeted Washington in the highest strains at
some times spoke of him at others in the strongest terms of contempt . . . Hamilton,
[Timothy] Pickering, and many others have been known to indulge themselves in
very contemptuous expressions, but very unjustly and ungratefully.”29 In the spring
of 1783 Hamilton opened up in private to James Madison about Washington’s occasionally querulous personality. As Madison recorded in his journal, “Mr. Hamilton
said that he knew General Washington intimately and perfectly. That his extreme
reserve, mixed sometimes with a degree of asperity of temper, both of which were
said to have increased of late, had contributed to the decline of his popularity.”30 At
the same time Hamilton regarded Washington as a man of unimpeachable integrity
who would “never yield to any dishonorable or disloyal plans.”31
Whatever his reservations, Hamilton had hitched his fortunes to Washington’s
career and refrained from public criticism of him. He knew that Washington alone
had held the army together since its creation. Most important, the two men were
shaped by the same wartime experiences and shared basic concerns about the
country’s political structure, especially the shortcomings of the Articles of Confed-

Lawrence Washington. George
Washington revered his older half brother,
who set a pattern of military service that
George faithfully followed.

qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqq
Lieutenant Governor Robert Dinwiddie.
Though he was an early champion of
Washington during the French and
Indian War, the two men clashed before
the end of Dinwiddie’s tenure as
colonial governor of Virginia.

Sarah “Sally” Cary Fairfax, the
enchanting woman who captivated
Washington’s imagination in his
early adulthood and perhaps in
the years beyond. This rather
romanticized painting, done in the
early twentieth century, is based on
a photograph of an original but now
vanished portrait of her.

George William Fairfax.
Washington’s longtime friend
chose either to accept or to
overlook Washington’s
fascination with his wife.

On a visit to Mount Vernon in 1772, Charles Willson Peale sketched
these delicate miniatures of Washington’s family.

qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqq

Martha Dandridge Custis Washington.
Though never a radiant beauty, Martha
Washington provided the ideal social setting
and emotional support for her husband’s career.

John Parke “Jacky” Custis. Washington grew
frustrated with the incurable indolence of his
wayward stepson, who died shortly after the
Yorktown campaign.

Martha Parke “Patsy” Custis.
Washington harbored tender feelings
for his stepdaughter, who was afﬂicted
with epilepsy from an early age.

General Charles Lee. This caricature
of the vain, eccentric general, a rival to
Washington, pokes fun at his love of dogs
and spindly body. Lee’s misconduct at
Monmouth effectively terminated his
career.

Puffed up to heroic proportions after
his victory at Saratoga, General Horatio
Gates failed to dislodge Washington as
commander in chief and was later
disgraced during the battle of Camden.

facing page: When John Trumbull painted this dashing portrait of Washington in 1780, he inserted at
right William Lee, the slave who served the general devotedly throughout the Revolutionary War.

The warm, ebullient Henry
Knox served with distinction as
Washington’s artillery chief during
the war but had a checkered
success as secretary of war
during his presidency.

Nathanael Greene. Always touted
as Washington’s favorite general,
Greene met an untimely death
after the war, robbing Washington
of an inﬂuential political ally.

above: Phillis Wheatley. Washington’s

appreciative response to the ode written
about him by this Boston slave signaled
an early advance in his views on slavery.

right: Brilliant, crusty, and

opinionated, John Adams evolved
from an early booster of Washington
into an envious detractor in later years.

Sir Henry Clinton, one of the
many distinguished British
commanders whom George
Washington managed to send
down to defeat.

Charles Cornwallis, ﬁrst
Marquess Cornwallis. Although
associated with the stunning
defeat of British forces at Yorktown,
Cornwallis was an aggressive
commander who inspired a healthy
fear among American generals.

Benedict Arnold. A staunch admirer
of Arnold’s derring-do throughout the
war, Washington was staggered by the
exposure of his massive treachery.

Peggy Shippen Arnold. Feigning
temporary madness when her
husband’s treason was revealed,
she managed to hoodwink
Washington, Hamilton, and
Lafayette into believing her
innocent of the scheme.

Fired by sparkling intelligence and unstoppable
ambition, Alexander Hamilton ﬂourished as a wartime
aide to Washington and later as treasury secretary
because the two men agreed on so many policy issues.

“Baron” von Steuben. Colorful,
ﬂamboyant, and profane, Steuben
performed wonders as the drillmaster
at Valley Forge, introducing a new
professionalism and forging discipline
in the Continental Army.

facing page: George Washington portrayed in the aftermath of his Yorktown victory. The Marquis de

Lafayette stands between Washington and his beloved aide-de-camp Tench Tilghman, who grasps the
articles of capitulation.

The chief political opponents of Washington’s presidency.

qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqq

At ﬁrst a trusted adviser to
Washington and his peerless tutor
on the Constitution, James Madison
emerged unexpectedly as his most
formidable adversary in Congress.

While Washington’s secretary of
state, Thomas Jefferson teamed up
with Madison, in a sometimes covert
partnership, to contest the policies of
the administration, inaugurating a
major political party in the process.

qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqq

An ardent admirer of Washington
early in the Revolutionary War,
Thomas Paine later turned into a
scathing critic.

As the editor of an opposition paper,
Philip Freneau heaped so many
aspersions on Washington that the
exasperated president denounced him
as a “rascal.”

Elizabeth Willing Powel, a married woman of exceptional intelligence and literary ﬂair, was Washington’s most intimate female friend and conﬁdante during his presidency.

This image of Martha Washington
captures both her sweetness and her
sadness in later years.

Frances “Fanny” Bassett, a niece of
Martha Washington’s, came to live at
Mount Vernon in early adolescence
and, with her winning personality,
ended up as a much-loved surrogate
daughter.

qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqq
above: The Washington Family. This classic

portrait of George and Martha Washington
includes the two Custis grandchildren they
reared: George Washington Parke Custis, left,
and Eleanor Parke Custis, right. The slave depicted at right may have been William Lee
or Christopher Sheels.

left: This painting of an aging President
Washington shows just how haggard and
careworn he appeared during his contentious
second term.

Mutiny r! 395

eration and the need for a powerful central government that would bind the states
into a solid union, restore American credit, and create a more permanent army. As
an immigrant, Hamilton bore no loyalty to a particular state, which perhaps made
it easier for him to adopt a continental perspective congenial to Washington’s. Their
congruent political values lashed Washington and Hamilton together into a potent
political partnership that would last until the end of Washington’s life.
Part of Washington’s attachment to Hamilton sprang from his persistent concern for his personal papers, which he saw as guaranteeing his posthumous fame
and preserving his record from distortion by posterity. The way Washington fussed
over these documents conﬁrms that he knew he was a historic personage and reﬂected his awareness that his personal saga was inextricably entwined with that of
the new nation. As early as August 1776, while bracing for Howe’s assault on New
York, he had shown solicitude for his papers, sending a box of them to Philadelphia
for safekeeping. The following year he had a chest with strong hinges constructed
to hold them. After Hamilton left his employ in April 1781, Washington asked Congress to hire secretaries to make copies of his wartime correspondence. “Unless a
set of writers are employed for the sole purpose of recording them,” he explained,
“it will not be in my power to accomplish this necessary work and equally impracticable perhaps to preserve from injury and loss such valuable papers.”32 Instead of
the rough originals, Washington wanted clerks who wrote “a fair hand” to produce
a magniﬁcent set of bound papers.33
Lieutenant Colonel Richard Varick, the former aide to Benedict Arnold, was
appointed to head the editorial team and at various times hired six different clerks
to assist him. With his customary attention to detail, Washington told Varick that
he wanted “a similarity and beauty in the whole execution” with “all the writing . . .
to be upon black lines equidistant. All the books to have the same margin and to be
indexed in so clear and intelligent a manner that there may be no difﬁculty in the
references.”34 It was astounding that, in the midst of war, Washington would issue
such precise guidelines. It was no less astounding that he elicited an appropriation
for the project, even as he complained about the poor pay and provisions granted to
his army. For more than two years, Varick and his clerks beavered away at the gigantic effort in Poughkeepsie, New York. They worked eight-hour days and ﬁlled up
twenty-eight volumes with correspondence. Washington hoped this written record
would stand as a polished monument to his wartime achievement—the perfect
strategy for a man who shrank from overt self-promotion.

O n e A m e r ic a n w ho a l most n e v e r acknowledged Washington’s wartime
heroism was his mother, who left behind scarcely a single memorable sentence

39 6

r! The Gener a l

about her son’s outsize success. With more to brag about than any other mother in
American history, she took no evident pride in her son’s accomplishments. As early
as 1807 one Washington biographer wrote that Mary was “so far from being partial
to the American revolution that she frequently regretted the side her son had taken
in the contest between her king and her country.”35 The best one can say about
Mary Washington is that she did not exploit her son’s renown for her own beneﬁt.
Instead, she leveled a steady stream of criticism at him, the gist being that he had
abandoned her. “She had always been resentful of anything he had done that was
not in her service,” wrote James T. Flexner, “and she had talked so against George’s
activities that she was believed by many to be a Tory. Her perpetual complaint was
of neglect.”36 For a son as dutiful as George Washington, this was a strange accusation and only made him more distant from his mother. He seems not to have sent
her a single letter during the entire war, prompting Douglas Southall Freeman to
comment that the “strangest mystery of Washington’s life” was “his lack of affection for his mother.”37 Observers noted a similarity between mother and son. When
Baron Ludwig von Closen, an aide to Rochambeau, visited Mary Washington, he
left this impression: “The afternoon I passed with Mrs. Washington and her sister,
both ladies no less venerable in their way than the General was in his.”38
Before the Revolution, as noted earlier, Washington had set up his mother with
a house and garden in Fredericksburg and instructed Lund Washington to attend
to her ﬁnancial needs in his absence. He agreed to pay rent to her based on the
proceeds from the slaves and farmland she still owned. This mismanaged property
had never yielded even half the money he agreed to pay her, so that the “rent” constituted a large outright subsidy. He had even sold off slaves to pay the exorbitant
property taxes. During the war Washington had never received a single complaint
about Lund’s treatment of his mother and must have assumed she was perfectly
content. In fact, Mary was far from content as she struggled with poor health, wartime food shortages, and the grave illness of her son-in-law and next-door neighbor, Fielding Lewis. Yet Washington heard nothing from her directly about these
problems and learned about them only in an embarrassing fashion.
After consulting with the French at Newport in February 1781, Washington returned to New Windsor to discover one of the most bizarre letters of his career.
Benjamin Harrison, speaker of the Virginia assembly, informed Washington, with
some trepidation, that his mother had instigated a movement in the legislature to
provide her with an emergency pension: “Some Gent[leme]n of the last assembly
proposed to apply to that body for assistance to your mother, who, they said, was
in great want, owing to the heavy taxes she was oblig[e]d to pay. I took a liberty to
put a stop to this, supposing you would be displeased at such an application. I make
no doubt but the assembly would readily grant the request and it now only rests

Mutiny r! 39 7

with you to say whether it shall be made or not.”39 Perhaps afraid of infuriating or
insulting Washington, Harrison had stalled in writing the letter. Clearly Mary had
made no effort to forewarn her son of her petition. She had now progressed from
quaint or eccentric to dangerously erratic.
From Washington’s abashed response, one can tell that he had not heard about
the matter before or communicated with his mother in years. He was mortiﬁed by
the insinuation that he was an unfeeling son and that his mother had consequently
thrown herself upon the charity of the state. The charge of neglect was substantially
the same one Mary had trotted out since he ﬁrst rode off to the French and Indian
War. Now, amid his manifold wartime duties, Washington sat down and recounted
for Harrison his tortured history with his mother, telling how he had set her up in
Fredericksburg before the war and instructed Lund to take care of her. He seemed
bafﬂed and hurt by her charges: “Whence her distresses can arise, therefore, I know
not, never having received any complaint . . . Conﬁdent I am that she has not a
child that would not divide the last sixpence to relieve her from real distress. This
she has been repeatedly assured of by me. And all of us, I am certain, would feel
much hurt at having our mother a pensioner while we had the means of supporting her. But, in fact, she has an ample income of her own.”40 Washington asked the
assembly to desist from taking any action.

ch ap ter thirt y-three

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Plundering Scoundrels

A s t h e wa r wa n e d in the northern states, it waxed ever hotter in the South. The
British, stymied in their goal of galvanizing southern Loyalists, nonetheless continued to ﬁght aggressively. Lord Cornwallis ached to avenge the humiliation Banastre
Tarleton suffered at Cowpens in January. For three weeks Nathanael Greene’s ragtag
army led him on a long wild-goose chase; then, on March 15, 1781, Cornwallis spotted
his chance, as his men approached a phalanx of local militia that Greene had lined up
south of Guilford Court House in North Carolina. After ﬁring one volley, the North
Carolina men dispersed, as Greene had ordered, but the Continental soldiers stubbornly held their ground in ﬁerce combat until Greene signaled a belated retreat. “I
never saw such ﬁghting since God made me,” declared a thunderstruck Cornwallis,
who had a horse shot from under him in the carnage.1 Desperate for victory and in
deﬁance of his ofﬁcers, Cornwallis ordered his men to ﬁre grapeshot amid hand-tohand combat, causing British marksmen inadvertently to slay British soldiers.
Technically a British victory, the battle cost Cornwallis dearly: 532 dead and
wounded soldiers, more than a quarter of his force. As Charles James Fox pointed
out in Parliament, “Another such victory would ruin the British Army.”2 Nathanael
Greene concurred: “They had the splendor, we the advantage.”3 Cornwallis decided
to move his bruised and exhausted troops into Virginia to link up with Benedict Arnold. He was being worn down by the wily, resourceful Greene, who came into his
own during the campaign. Washington understood that Greene, despite the defeat,
had acquitted himself nobly. “Although the honors of the ﬁeld did not fall to your
lot,” Washington told him, “I am convinced you deserved them.”4
With the war intensifying in Virginia, the piecemeal transfer of men to the

Plundering Scoundrels r! 39 9

South hollowed out Washington’s army. As British forces pushed deep into the
Virginia heartland, they gladly laid waste to the estates of Revolutionary leaders,
and Washington knew that Mount Vernon might be next. In January and again
in April, Brigadier General Benedict Arnold led his British and Tory troops along
the James River in a rampage of unbridled destruction, burning homesteads and
tobacco warehouses. Britain’s naval strength operated to advantage in a state well
watered by rivers. After activating the militia, Governor Thomas Jefferson appealed
to Washington to move southward, saying his presence “would restore [the] full
conﬁdence of salvation.”5 For Washington, who longed to be home, this message
was hard to hear. “Nobody, I persuade myself, can doubt my inclination to be immediately employed in the defense of that country where all my property and connections are,” he replied.6 Nonetheless he cited “powerful objections” to leaving his
army or marching them hundreds of miles south.7 He had already diverted a large
number of men to Virginia under Lafayette, but he didn’t wish to join him when
there was a chance of collaborating with the French to take New York, which Washington still envisioned as the climactic battle of the Revolution.
Intermittently Washington lapsed into passing reveries about his old life at
Mount Vernon. Early on he had written home frequently and at length, the mental
connection with his estate still unbroken. Now, he told a correspondent, he had
“long been a stranger” to such “private indulgences.”8 Nevertheless he still deluged
Lund Washington with minute questions about a place he hadn’t set eyes on for six
years. “How many lambs have you had this spring?” he asked in March 1781. “How
many colts are you like to have?” He inquired about the progress of the covered
walkways connecting the main house to the outlying buildings. “Are you going to
repair the pavement of the piazza?” he wished to know.9
These nostalgic recollections of Mount Vernon were shattered weeks later when
a British sloop, the Savage, dropped anchor in the Potomac near the plantation.
Captain Thomas Graves had burned homes on the Maryland side to soften up his
victims on the Virginia bank. Then he sent ashore a party to Mount Vernon to
demand a large store of food and offered asylum to any slaves; seventeen of Washington’s slaves—fourteen men and three women—ﬂed to the ship’s freedom, embarrassing the leader of the American Revolution. Lund Washington knew that his
boss wanted him to resist any cooperation with the British, and at ﬁrst he balked at
their demands. Then he went aboard the Savage, bearing provisions as a peace offering. After this conference he consented to send sheep, hogs, and other supplies to
save Mount Vernon and possibly to recover the departed slaves. Maybe Lund wondered whether Washington, at bottom, was prepared to sacriﬁce his majestic estate.
An indignant Lafayette warned Washington of the unfortunate precedent Lund had
set: “This being done by the gentleman who, in some measure, represents you at

40 0

r! The Gener a l

your house will certainly have a bad effect and contrasts with spirited answers from
some neighbors that had their houses burnt accordingly.”10
As Lafayette expected, Washington reacted with unalloyed horror when he
learned that Lund had boarded the Savage to negotiate with the enemy, and he
promptly administered a grave rebuke to his steward for his decision to “commune
with a parcel of plundering scoundrels,”11 as he dubbed them. “It would have been
a less painful circumstance to me to have heard that, in consequence of your noncompliance with their request, they had burnt my house and laid the plantation in
ruins.”12 Washington showed his classic stoicism here, his uncompromising refusal
to beg or bow to anyone. Since Lund was his proxy, he felt personally humiliated by
the incident. In a fatalistic mood, he concluded that, unless the French brought a
superior naval force to Virginia, “I have as little doubt of its ending in the loss of all
my Negroes and in the destruction of my houses. But I am prepared for the event.”13
He ordered Lund to remove at once any valuables from the estate. Martha Washington was then laid up with recurrent liver trouble, abdominal pain, and jaundice.
So traumatized was her husband by the Savage incident that when the widow of a
British Army paymaster sent Martha a parcel of citrus fruits as a get-well present—
the Washingtons had stayed at her New York home in 1776—he brusquely returned
it as an unacceptable gift from the enemy.
Sinking into a morose mood in the early spring of 1781, Washington again believed that the Continental Army was disintegrating before his eyes, that he had
been doomed to lead a phantom army. So many enlistments had expired during
the winter that it was at times difﬁcult even to garrison West Point. His idle troops
had languished since November, and “instead of having the prospect of a glorious
offensive campaign before us,” he lamented, “we have a bewildered and gloomy
defensive one.”14 As Greene and Lafayette won honors in the South, he was reduced
to a helpless bystander, upstaged by his own disciples.
Washington dispatched Major General William Heath to raise supplies from
the northern states and predicted his army would starve or disband without them.
In May his hungry army was down to a one-day ration of meat. Even when states
scraped up supplies, Washington couldn’t pay the teamsters to transport them. It
was all too familiar and wearisome to Washington, who began to think he would
never see the end of the conﬂict. As he conﬁded to General John Armstrong, he
didn’t doubt the outcome of the war, believing that “divine government” favored
the patriots, “but the period for its accomplishm[en]t may be too far distant for a
person of my years, whose morning and evening hours and every moment (unoccupied by business) pants for retirement.”15
·

·

·

Plundering Scoundrels r! 401

Th rough t h e c om bi n e d e f f ort s of Benjamin Franklin and John Laurens
in Paris that winter, the French agreed to an indispensable loan and a muniﬁcent
gift of six million livres to purchase arms and supplies. For all that, the French foreign minister, Vergennes, was reluctant to commit more French troops. In the early
going, he had fancied that the French would score a rapid victory; now, as things
dragged on, he shrank from an open-ended involvement. All along Washington and
Lafayette had stressed the vital importance of sea power, and Vergennes decided the
French would mount one last naval effort. In the spring he notiﬁed Lafayette that
a French squadron would cruise off America’s coast during the year: “M. Le Comte
de Grasse, who commands our ﬂeet in the Antilles, has been ordered to send part
of his ﬂeet to the coast of North America sometime before next winter or to detach
a portion of it to sweep the coast and cooperate in any undertaking which may be
projected by the French and American generals.”16 On May 8 the Count de Barras,
the newly assigned French naval commander, arrived with the invigorating news
that 26 ships of the line, 8 frigates, and 150 transports had sailed from Brest in late
March, bound for the West Indies.
On May 21 Washington met in Wethersﬁeld, Connecticut, with Rochambeau,
who conﬁrmed that an enormous French ﬂeet under Admiral de Grasse was on its
way. During the winter Washington had worked out in detail the plan that had long
bewitched his mind: a siege of New York, with the Americans attacking Manhattan
and the French Brooklyn. He cited the comforting statistic that Sir Henry Clinton,
in sending detachments south, had cut his New York force in half. An operation
against New York, he argued vigorously, would force Clinton to withdraw more
troops from the South. Washington also had legitimate logistical concerns about the
difﬁculties of marching his army to Virginia and its environs. He wasn’t opposed to
a southern operation per se, but his unswerving passion for retaking New York was
patent. “General Washington, during this conference, had scarcely another object in
view but an expedition against the island of New York,” Rochambeau wrote.17
Rochambeau had to play a delicate game of deception with Washington. Although he didn’t want to stiﬂe Washington’s enthusiasm or rebuff him outright,
he tried to steer the conversation toward a joint operation in the South, where they
might rendezvous with the French ﬂeet and surprise Cornwallis. Even as Rochambeau humored Washington and initialed a document saying that New York held
top priority, he secretly relayed word to de Grasse that he should think about sailing to Chesapeake Bay instead of to New York. In the coming weeks Rochambeau
pretended to lend credence to Washington’s plans, while focusing his real attention
on quite a different strategy.
Why did Washington botch this major strategic call? Aside from settling old
scores, he may well have believed that his army would enjoy a paramount role in a

402

r! The Gener a l

New York siege, compared to an auxiliary role in any southern battle. Or perhaps
he honestly believed that it was easier to concentrate American and French forces
in the North and that a long march southward in summer heat would sacriﬁce large
numbers of soldiers through sickness and desertion. Having prodded the northern
states to aid his army in any Franco-American campaign, he doubtless feared that
their enthusiasm might cool with any southern strategy. Since he believed that his
army’s existence depended on the outcome of Heath’s diplomatic mission to the
states, this counted as no minor factor in his thinking at the moment.
While both Washington and Rochambeau labored to fashion a harmonious facade of Franco-American amity, perceptive observers detected subtle tensions. Their
interpreter at Wethersﬁeld, the Chevalier de Chastellux, a man of many parts—
soldier, philosopher, member of the French Academy, intimate of Voltaire—was well
placed to study their complex interaction. A handsome fellow with watchful eyes, he
was gathering material for a book about the United States and was immensely taken
with the forty-nine-year-old Washington, applauding him as “the greatest and the
best of men.”18 He was chagrined by the treatment Washington received from his
French counterpart. Rochambeau, he claimed, handled the Virginian with “all the
ungraciousness and all the unpleasantness possible,” and he worried that Washington
would be left with “a sad and disagreeable feeling in his heart.”19 Washington secretly
carried this grief but exposed it to no one outside a small circle of advisers.
When Chastellux arrived that winter, Washington was instantly charmed by this
friend of Lafayette, whom he praised as a gentleman of “merit, knowledge, and
agreeable manners.”20 At his ﬁrst meals with Washington, Chastellux was struck by
how Washington was “always free and always agreeable” with his ofﬁcers, unlike
the rigidly formal Europeans.21 When he couldn’t offer the Frenchman a separate
bedroom for lack of space, Washington apologized, “but always with a noble politeness, which was neither embarrassing nor excessive.”22 For Chastellux, Washington
seemed a man of the happy medium: “brave without temerity, laborious without
ambition, generous without prodigality, noble without pride, virtuous without severity.”23 He captured well how Washington was at once amiable and yet a shade
aloof: “He has not the imposing pomp of a Maréchal de France who gives the order . . . The goodness and benevolence which characterize him are evident in all
that surrounds him, but the conﬁdence he calls forth never occasions improper familiarity.”24 Most impressive was Washington’s implicit submission to the people’s
representatives: “This is the seventh year that he has commanded the army and
he has obeyed Congress: more need not be said.”25 Later on, Chastellux left a ﬁne
epitaph for Washington when he said that “at the end of a long civil war, he had
nothing with which he could reproach himself.”26
That Washington found it frustrating to be junior partner in the French alliance

Plundering Scoundrels r! 403

was conﬁrmed when he returned to New Windsor after meeting with Rochambeau.
At Wethersﬁeld, Washington had advised Rochambeau to relocate the French ﬂeet
from Newport to Boston. Then the Duke de Lauzun arrived with a message that a
French council of war had opted to keep it in Newport. This was a direct slap at
Washington, who was “in such a rage,” the duke said, that he didn’t reply for three
days. He had to accept that the French were his superiors, notwithstanding their
public claims that he supervised the two armies. When Washington ﬁnally replied,
he said he took “the liberty still to recommend” that the ﬂeet be moved to Boston.27
The French seemed to acquiesce, for on May 31 he recorded in his journal that Admiral de Barras “would sail with the ﬁrst fair wind for Boston.”28
On June 10 Rochambeau informed Washington that the Count de Grasse would
bring his ﬂeet north that summer to coordinate an attack with the French and
American armies. Washington reiterated his hope that de Grasse would sail to New
York. In reply, Rochambeau continued to string Washington along, contending
that de Grasse had been informed “that your Excellency preferred that he should
make his ﬁrst appearance at New York . . . that I submitted, as I ought, my opinion
to yours.”29 In reality, Rochambeau alerted de Grasse to his private preference for
heading ﬁrst to the Chesapeake Bay.
In the early years of the war Virginia had been spared bloodshed, but in June 1781
ﬁghting raged there with blazing ferocity. Lord Cornwallis had joined forces with
Benedict Arnold, and despite able defensive maneuvers by Lafayette, the two men
spread terror through the state. “Accounts from Virginia are exceedingly alarming,”
Washington told Rochambeau, reporting that the enemy was marching through the
state “almost without control.”30 Still bent on taking New York, Washington pleaded
that an attack there would be the best way to siphon off British troops from Virginia.
In mid-June he wrote again with a new twist—if they had clear naval superiority, he
would contemplate targets other than New York: “I wish you to explain this matter
to the Count de Grasse, as, if I understand you, you have in your communication to
him, conﬁned our views to New York alone.”31 Clearly Washington had been fooled
as to what Rochambeau had whispered in the admiral’s ear.
With the beneﬁt of hindsight, Washington’s preoccupation with New York
seems a colossal mistake, just as Rochambeau’s emphasis on Cornwallis and Virginia seems prescient. As a rule, Washington did not tamper with history and implicitly trusted the record. In this case, however, he later tried to rewrite history
by suggesting that his tenacious concentration on New York was a mere feint to
mislead the British in Virginia, while maintaining the political allegiance of the
eastern and mid-Atlantic states. Responding to a query from Noah Webster in 1788,
Washington defended his behavior with unusual vehemence, as if the inquiry had
touched a raw nerve. He alleged that his preparations against New York were in-

404

r! The Gener a l

tended “to misguide and bewilder Sir Henry Clinton in regard to the real object
[i.e., the Chesapeake] by ﬁctitious communications as well as by making a deceptive provision of ovens, forage and boats in his neighborhood . . . Nor were less
pains taken to deceive our own army.”32 He went so far as to say that “it never was
in contemplation to attack New York.”33 But in conﬁdential correspondence with
Rochambeau he pushed for no Chesapeake operation, and the record shows that he
had repeatedly favored a strike against New York. Only on the very eve of the Yorktown campaign did he undertake the deceptive maneuvers described to Webster.
In general, Washington lived up to his vaunted reputation for honesty, but it
was awkward for him to admit that he had, at least initially, opposed a campaign
that served as the brilliant capstone of his military career. He wanted to portray
himself as the visionary architect of the Yorktown victory, not as a general misguidedly concentrating upon New York while his French allies masterminded the decisive blow. Washington made it difﬁcult for people to catch his lie because he alleged
that he had tried to deceive his own side as well as the enemy; hence any communication could be construed as part of the master bluff. When Washington’s letter to
Noah Webster was published in the American Museum in 1791, Timothy Pickering,
the former adjutant general and quartermaster general of the Continental Army,
shook his head sadly. “It will hurt [Washington’s] moral character,” he wrote to Dr.
Benjamin Rush. “He has been generally thought to be honest and I own I thought
his morals were good, but that letter is false and I know it to be so.”34
Whatever his shortcomings as a military strategist, the French understood that
Washington’s greatness as a general lay in his prolonged sustenance of his makeshift
army. He had done something unprecedented by cobbling together a creditable
ﬁghting force from the poor, the young, the black, and the downtrodden, and he
had done it in the face of unprecedented political obstacles. In early July the French
and American armies camped close together near Dobbs Ferry, on the east bank of
the Hudson, giving the French ofﬁcers a chance to study the Continental Army and
marvel at what Washington had wrought. It was a heterogeneous, mongrel army
such as no European had ever before witnessed. “I admire the American troops
tremendously!” said Baron von Closen. “It is incredible that soldiers composed of
men of every age, even of children of ﬁfteen, of whites and blacks, almost naked,
unpaid, and rather poorly fed, can march so well and withstand ﬁre so steadfastly.”
He gave all credit to “the calm and calculated measures of General Washington, in
whom I daily discover some new and eminent qualities.”35
Von Closen’s amazement was shared by his colleague the Count de ClermontCrèvecoeur. As the latter roamed about the American army camp, he was stunned
“by its destitution: the men were without uniforms and covered with rags; most of
them were barefoot. They were of all sizes down to children who could not have

Plundering Scoundrels r! 405

been over fourteen. There were many negroes, mulattoes, etc. Only their artillerymen were wearing uniforms.”36 Such tributes are the more noteworthy in that
Washington was ashamed of the slovenly state of his army, which only heightened
the admiration of the ﬂabbergasted French.
Predictably, French ofﬁcers carped at the quality of American food. On the
other hand, they couldn’t fault the quantity, except the way it all seemed thrown indiscriminately on one plate: “The table was served in the American style and pretty
abundantly: vegetables, roast beef, lamb, chickens, salad dressed with nothing but
vinegar, green peas, puddings and some pie, a kind of tart . . . all this being put
upon the table at the same time. They gave us on the same plate beef, green peas,
lamb & etc.”37 One wonders how Washington squared this groaning table with his
constant pleas to Congress about food shortages. The French stared in amazement
at all the beer and rum consumed and the interminable toasts with raised glasses
of wine. They found Washington in an expansive mood at these dinners, convivial
and relaxed—the Count de Ségur spoke of his “unaffected cheerfulness”—and he
lingered long into the night after the evening meals.38
On July 18 Washington and Rochambeau wandered along the Hudson at the north
end of Manhattan, surveying enemy positions. So many years had elapsed since 1776
that land denuded of its thick vegetation early in the war had started to grow back.
“The island is totally stripped of trees and wood of every kind,” Washington wrote,
“but low bushes (apparently as high as a man’s waist) appear in places which were
covered with wood in the year 1776.”39 He knew that de Grasse’s arrival off the coast
was imminent, though he didn’t know whether it would be off Sandy Hook, New
Jersey, or the Virginia capes. Meeting with Rochambeau the next day, Washington
reprised his idée ﬁxe: that if de Grasse’s ﬂeet could navigate its way into New York
Harbor, then “I am of opinion that the enterprise against New York and its dependencies should be our primary object.”40 In his journal Washington confessed that the
Massachusetts governor hadn’t responded to his plea for more men and that he was
petriﬁed that, after de Grasse’s arrival, it would be found “that I had neither men nor
means adequate” for a military operation.41 Even as he knew he might be on the brink
of a major triumph, he was also distraught at the impotence of his position vis-à-vis
his French allies. When he wrote to the Count de Grasse on July 21, he ducked the essential question of exactly how many men he had. “The French force consists of about
4,400 men,” he told the French admiral. “The American is at this time but small, but
expected to be considerably augmented. In this, however, we may be disappointed.”42
Contrary to his later statement, Washington told de Grasse that he hoped there would
be no need to go to Virginia, “as I ﬂatter myself the glory of destroying the British
squadron at New York is reserved for the king’s ﬂeet under your command.”43

ch ap ter thirt y-four

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

The World Turned Upside Down

I n e a r ly August 17 81 George Washington began to surrender his dream of
taking New York and avenging its early loss. Ironically, his own inadvertent action
helped bring about this change. Sir Henry Clinton intercepted a letter in which
Washington named New York as his main strategic objective, prompting the British
to strengthen their forces there and rendering Virginia more vulnerable. “It seems
reduced almost to a certainty that the enemy will reinforce New York with part
of their troops from Virginia,” Washington notiﬁed Robert Morris on August 2.1
Turning his attention to Virginia, Washington asked Morris if he could amass a
ﬂeet of thirty double-decker transport vessels to ferry the Continental Army southward. Even though Washington reversed course the next day and dangled before
the Count de Barras the shimmering prospect of New York Harbor “open and defenseless” for the taking, his mind was preoccupied for the ﬁrst time by the logistics
of a southern move.2
If Washington muddled along in something of a strategic dither, his heroic stature remained unimpaired among ordinary citizens, who thanked him for keeping
alive the embers of rebellion. On August 4 Abbé Robin, a chaplain with Rochambeau’s army, witnessed the adulation ﬁrsthand at the allied camp at Philipsburg,
New York: “Through all the land, [Washington] appears like a benevolent god; old
men, women, children—they all ﬂock eagerly to catch a glimpse of him when he
travels and congratulate themselves because they have seen him.”3 He noted Washington’s gift for inspired leadership, his capacity to make men vie for his favor.
Washington “knew how to impress upon his soldiers an absolute subordination, to
make them eager to deserve his praise, to make them fear even his silence.”4

The World Turned Upside Down r! 40 7

On August 14, while still distracted by reports of a large British ﬂeet arriving in
New York, Washington absorbed dramatic news from the Count de Barras in Newport: Admiral de Grasse had sailed from St. Domingue with a mighty ﬂeet of up
to twenty-nine ships of the line and 3,200 troops. If all unfolded according to plan,
the ﬂeet would show up off Chesapeake Bay by September 3. Stunned, Washington
retired forever his ambition to conquer New York. In his journal he acknowledged
the “apparent disinclination” of his French partners to tackle New York and noted
the feeble response from state governors to his despairing pleas for more troops.
He decided to discard “all idea of attacking New York,” the fulcrum upon which his
strategic calculations had hinged for years.5
De Barras told Washington that de Grasse would need to sail back to the Caribbean by mid-October, leaving only a brief interval for a joint operation against
Cornwallis. This gave Washington and Rochambeau three weeks to transport two
cumbersome armies 450 miles to Chesapeake Bay while de Barras and eight ships of
the line and four frigates sailed south from Newport. After a desultory war that had
shufﬂed along for years, Washington, Rochambeau, and de Barras now engaged in
a headlong rush to reach Virginia. But orchestrating the movements of three armies
and two navies over a vast portion of the eastern seaboard was to prove a ﬁendishly
intricate maneuver.
Two days later Washington learned something from Lafayette that, in its way,
was no less momentous than the startling news about de Grasse. Cornwallis had
retreated to the eastern tip of the Virginia peninsula that jutted into Chesapeake
Bay, dividing the York and James rivers. On high, open ground at a place called
Yorktown, he and his men were furiously shoveling trenches and throwing up
earthworks. As it turned out, Cornwallis had barged into a trap that Washington
had spotted years earlier when Brigadier General Thomas Nelson wanted to station
troops at Yorktown to track British ships. Washington had pointed out to Nelson
that his troops “by being upon a narrow neck of land would be in danger of being
cut off. The enemy might very easily throw up a few ships into York and James’s
river . . . and land a body of men there, who by throwing up a few redoubts, would
intercept their retreat and oblige them to surrender at [their] discretion.”6 The letter uncannily foreshadowed the events of 1781.
As his army hurried south, Washington launched diversionary measures to dupe
the enemy into thinking that New York remained his objective. He pitched a small
city of tents on the west bank of the Hudson with wagons bustling in and out of this
imaginary camp. American boats worked the nearby waters, laying down pontoons,
as if readying an amphibious assault. To deceive the enemy, Washington needed to
deceive his own men, who thought they were embarked for Staten Island. Instead
they found themselves marching inland toward Trenton and then crossed paths

40 8

r! The Gener a l

with the French at Princeton, where Washington enjoyed a gratifying encounter
with French ofﬁcers. As he strode past their tent, he saw maps unfurled of Boston,
Trenton, and Princeton: the ofﬁcers were re-creating his victorious battles. One observer caught his reaction: “Despite his modesty . . . [Washington] seemed pleased
to ﬁnd thus assembled all the successful and pleasant events of the war.”7 The group
repaired to a tavern to share Madeira and punch. One wonders whether the French
made a fuss over Washington’s early triumphs to soothe his wounded vanity and
draw the sting from his disappointment over abandoning New York.
To march his men through New Jersey without betraying his intentions to the
enemy, Washington contrived ingenious stratagems. He broke his army into three
parallel columns and brought them forward at staggered intervals. The troops had
no inkling of their true destination until they reached Trenton, where heavy guns
were loaded on boats to carry them down the Delaware River to near Christiana,
Delaware. From there it would be a twelve-mile march to Head of Elk, at the northern end of Chesapeake Bay. The original plan envisioned troops sailing with them,
but Washington couldn’t rustle up the requisite vessels, so he and Rochambeau
made a hugely daring decision to have the men traverse the immense distance to
Maryland on foot.
The southern landscape was unknown territory for Washington’s men, who
braced for sweltering heat and disease. Fearful of a mutiny, Washington implored
Robert Morris to come up with a month’s pay to pacify the men: “The service
[in Virginia] they are going upon is disagreeable to the northern regiments, but
I make no doubt that a douceur [bribe] of a little hard money would put them
in proper temper.”8 Perhaps to garner popular support, Washington marched his
army through Philadelphia, and cheering ladies jammed every window as a column
two miles long ﬁled through sunstruck streets. “The general ofﬁcers and their aides,
in rich military uniform, mounted on noble steeds, elegantly caparisoned, were followed by their servants and baggage,” noted James Thacher.9 The common soldiers,
lean, sunburned, and spent from their march, padded along wearily to ﬁfes and
drums. At night the entire capital was illuminated in honor of Washington, who
was thronged by crowds of admirers.
Washington’s stay in Philadelphia was fraught with worry. He was on edge, having heard nothing from de Grasse or de Barras since they sailed from their respective positions. “If you get anything new from any quarter,” he entreated Lafayette,
“send it, I pray you, on the spur of speed, for I am almost all impatience and anxiety.”10 It was highly unorthodox for Washington to confess to such jitters. On the
morning of September 5, after riding out of Philadelphia, he was overtaken at Chester by a messenger bearing phenomenal news: the Count de Grasse had shown up
in Chesapeake Bay with a full panoply of military and naval power: 28 ships of

The World Turned Upside Down r! 40 9

the line, 4 frigates, and 3,500 troops. Washington shortly learned that de Grasse
had engaged the Royal Navy under Admiral Thomas Graves off the Virginia capes,
sending the British squadron scurrying back to New York and leaving the French in
undisputed control of Chesapeake Bay. Between Lafayette’s small army on the land
side and de Grasse’s massive ﬂeet at sea, Cornwallis was bottled up near the end of
the Yorktown peninsula.
As Rochambeau and his generals glided down the Delaware, they beheld something that overturned their preconceptions of a staid Washington. He stood on
the riverbank in delirious elation, signaling gleefully with a hat in one hand and
a handkerchief in the other. From across the water they heard him shouting “De
Grasse.”11 “I caught sight of General Washington,” wrote Rochambeau, “waving his
hat at me with demonstrative gestures of the greatest joy.”12 Once the French commander came ashore, the two men hugged with a mighty embrace. One French ofﬁcer, Guillaume de Deux-Ponts, was amazed by Washington’s ebullience. Before, he
had been convinced of Washington’s “natural coldness,” but now he had to reckon
with the “pure joy” shown by the American: “He put aside his character as arbiter of
North America and contented himself for the moment with that of a citizen, happy
at the good fortune of his country. A child, whose every wish had been gratiﬁed,
would not have experienced a sensation more lively.”13 The Duke de Lauzun agreed:
“I never saw a man so thoroughly and openly delighted.”14 Washington’s boyish
exuberance testiﬁed to the years of suppressed anxiety from which he was now
beginning to feel emancipated.
Perhaps restoring his spirits, too, was knowledge that, for the ﬁrst time in six
years, he would soon set eyes on Mount Vernon. He spent a long day in Baltimore,
trying to get more transports to ferry his men and enduring the ceremonial occasions he loathed. Then early the next morning he set out on horseback with a single
aide, David Humphreys, and streaked across sixty miles of Virginia countryside in
a day. The last time Washington had set eyes on Mount Vernon was May 4, 1775,
when he departed for the Second Continental Congress, little realizing how his life
would be turned topsy-turvy. To experience Mount Vernon anew after his long,
itinerant military life must have been a heady sensation. The household was now
enlivened by newcomers, especially the four children of Jacky and Nelly Custis,
whom he had never seen; the baby boy had been christened George Washington
Parke Custis. Humphreys, a young man of literary aspirations, versiﬁed the slaves’
reaction to Washington’s return: “Return’d from war, I saw them round him press
/ And all their speechless glee by artless signs express.”15 One wonders whether this
homecoming was staged by slaves eager to parade their ﬁdelity; the “speechless glee”
doesn’t jibe with the discontent of the seventeen slaves who had raced to freedom
aboard the British sloop Savage.

4 10

r! The Gener a l

Within twenty-four hours Washington’s and Rochambeau’s entourages had arrived at Mount Vernon, ready to chart the Yorktown siege. For these battle-tested
veterans, the mansion was a refreshing oasis. It was a tribute to Martha Washington’s talents that she could entertain in style amid wartime conditions. Colonel
Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., complimented the gracious and well-appointed reception
lavished upon the visitors. “A numerous family now present,” he wrote in his diary.
“All accommodated. An elegant seat and situation: great appearance of opulence
and real exhibitions of hospitality and princely entertainment.”16
The French ofﬁcers appraised Mount Vernon and its hostess with considerable
curiosity. After the frippery of the French court, Martha Washington struck them
as the pattern of republican austerity. “Mrs. Washington is . . . small and fat, her
appearance is respectable,” wrote Claude Blanchard. “She was dressed very plainly
and her manners were simple in all respects.”17 In surveying the estate, Blanchard
detected the tarnished glory inﬂicted by neglect. “As to the house, it is a country residence, the handsomest that I have yet seen in America . . . There are in the places
around many huts for the negroes, of whom the general owns a large number . . .
The environs of his house are not fertile and the trees that we see there do not appear to be large. Even the garden is barren.”18 Baron von Closen found the house’s
relative modesty suitable for America’s hero: “The spacious and well-contrived
mansion house at Mount Vernon was elegantly furnished, though there was no
remarkable luxury to be seen anywhere; and, indeed, any ostentatious pomp would
not have agreed with the simple manner of the owner.”19
Washington must have been distressed by the creeping signs of decay everywhere. Whatever the war’s outcome, he would be left a poorer man, which weighed
heavily on his mind. That June, in a letter to William Crawford, the steward of his
western lands, he broke down and conﬁded his concern about his wealth withering
away as the war progressed: “My whole time is . . . so much engrossed by the public
duties of my station that I have totally neglected all my private concerns, which are
declining every day, and may possibly end in capital losses, if not absolute ruin,
before I am at liberty to look after them.”20
Among the pleasures of his return was the chance to see the mansion’s new
north wing and the stylish dining room where he would entertain state visitors. It
was likely here that he held a dinner for his guests on the night of September 12 before departing for Williamsburg the next morning. Jacky Custis prevailed upon his
stepfather to take him along as a personal aide, a belated stint of service that must
have awakened mixed feelings in Washington.
Arriving in Williamsburg late on the afternoon of September 14, Washington
settled into the two-story brick home of George Wythe, a signer of the Declaration of Independence and Thomas Jefferson’s old law professor. Washington moved

The World Turned Upside Down r! 4 1 1

about the town in a casual, unobtrusive fashion. “He approached without any pomp
or parade, attended only by a few horsemen and his own servants,” observed St.
George Tucker, a well-to-do young Virginia lawyer and militia colonel.21 Although
Washington eschewed the swagger of power, his self-effacing presence sent an electric jolt through the ranks of soldiers.
As Tucker discovered, Washington had a retentive mind for detail and a politician’s knack for remembering names: “To my great surprise, he recognized my features and spoke to me immediately by name.”22 The young man also witnessed the
fervent reunion between Washington and Lafayette, conjuring it up in a letter to his
wife the next day. The marquis “caught the General round his body, hugged him as
close as it was possible, and absolutely kissed him from ear to ear once or twice . . .
with as much ardor as ever an absent lover kissed his mistress on his return.”23
Washington also remained accessible to ordinary soldiers. “He stands in the door,
takes every man by the hand,” twenty-year-old Ebenezer Denny of Pennsylvania
wrote home, still atremble with excitement. “The ofﬁcers all pass in, receiving his
hand and shake. This is the ﬁrst time I had seen the general.”24
That evening Washington was entertained with an elegant supper and the overture from a French opera. The next morning he informed de Grasse of his wish to
confer with him. The French admiral had already issued a rather huffy letter to him,
questioning the dilatory pace of the Continental Army. “The season is approaching
when, against my will, I shall be obliged to forsake the allies for whom I have done
my very best and more than could be expected,” he wrote reprovingly.25 It was easy
for the French admiral to quibble. The soldiers marching south from Head of Elk
to Annapolis faced an exhausting trek through an inhospitable landscape that one
soldier depicted as “abominable, cut by deep ravines and many small rivers, which
the soldiers were obliged to ford after removing their shoes and stockings.” The
next day they negotiated a riverbed “so rocky that the horses risked breaking their
legs. All the way across we were in water up to our waists, and the horses up to their
knees.”26 At Annapolis the soldiers could ﬁnally sail the rest of the way down the
Chesapeake to the James River.
On September 17 the Count de Grasse sent a boat to convey Washington,
Rochambeau, and their aides to his ﬂagship, the Ville de Paris, riding at anchor off
Cape Henry. Not since his Barbados trip as a teenager had Washington spent so
much time aﬂoat. It was noon the next day before the generals reached the French
armada and gazed at the grand spectacle of thirty-two giant ships spanning the
horizon. Reputed to be the world’s biggest warship, the towering Ville de Paris—
a gift from the city of Paris to the king—bristled with 110 guns and 1,300 men.
Varnished to a high gloss, it was given an extra coat of French glamour by ﬂowers
and plants festooning the quarterdeck. Admiral de Grasse turned out to be a good-

412

r! The Gener a l

looking man of imposing height and girth. “The admiral is a remarkable man for
size, appearance, and plainness of address,” noted Jonathan Trumbull, Jr.27 A scion
of an aristocratic family, de Grasse had naval experience dating back to the War
of Jenkins’ Ear in 1740, when he had fought against Lawrence Washington. At six
foot two, de Grasse was slightly taller than Washington, whom he embraced with
gusto, kissing him on both cheeks and exclaiming, “Mon cher petit général!”28 Never
comfortable with physical affection, Washington was less amused than Knox and
his ofﬁcers, who roared with unrestricted laughter.
Despite the formal dinner and other marks of courtesy that de Grasse had arranged, the talks did not go smoothly. He set a deadline of no later than November 1 for his time in Virginia, and Washington hoped the Yorktown siege would
ﬁt into this abbreviated timetable. He gave de Grasse a mixed grade, calling him a
“gallant ofﬁcer” while also bemoaning his “impetuosity.”29 Mostly Washington felt
powerless in dealing with the arrogant admiral. When their talks ended, de Grasse
devised an elaborate sunset send-off for Washington, with crewmen on all the ships
scrambling up into the riggings and ﬁring muskets in the sequence known as a feu
de joie.
For three days Washington’s departing boat was buffeted by gusts, and he didn’t
return to Williamsburg until September 22. By then, the last remnants of the Continental Army had tramped in from their marathon journey. No sooner was Washington back than he received an unpleasant surprise. Admiral Graves had returned
with his ﬂeet to New York, where he hoped to be reinforced; to avert this, de Grasse
contemplated a move north to cut off any British movements by sea. Writing to
de Grasse, Washington communicated his “painful anxiety” at any action that
might compromise the Yorktown siege. “The enterprise against York[town] under
the protection of your ships is as certain as any military operation can be rendered
by a decisive superiority of strength and means,” he pleaded.30 Washington by now
had gotten religion about the Yorktown mission, and de Grasse decided to cancel
the voyage to New York. Nevertheless, in a mildly irritated tone, he told Washington, “Your Excellency may be very sure that I have, so to speak, more at heart than
yourself that the expedition to York may terminate agreeably to our desires.”31
On September 28 Washington and his army began the twelve-mile march to
Yorktown through scenery he depicted as “beautiful, fertile country.”32 The day was
so sultry that at least two men perished from the heat. That night Washington slept
safely behind the lines in a wooded glade under “the small spreading branches of
a tree,” with a spring running nearby.33 The next day he pitched a couple of tents,
including a large dining marquee that would enable him to entertain up to forty
guests at a time during the siege.
Cornwallis and his troops were holed up on the bluff of Yorktown village,

The World Turned Upside Down r! 4 13

which was set above the broad, gleaming expanse of the York River, with the town
of Gloucester lying directly across the water. This bucolic spot was more salubrious than the low-lying swamps nearby. Most British troops stayed behind the main
fortiﬁcations, but Cornwallis had expanded the defensive perimeter with ten low
earthen redoubts that projected into the sandy battleﬁeld. From the outset it was
an uneven contest, for Cornwallis had almost 9,000 troops versus nearly 19,000
French and Americans. Seeing his precarious situation, Cornwallis counted on Sir
Henry Clinton to redeem his pledge and relieve him with thousands of fresh troops.
“This place is in no state of defense,” Cornwallis warned on September 17. “If you
cannot relieve me very soon, you must be prepared to hear the worst.”34 Failing to
heed the urgent warning, Clinton procrastinated, in one of the foremost blunders
of the war.
As British soldiers peered from behind their earthworks, they could see French
troops and artillery to their right and American to their left. The Frenchmen looked
almost fashionably garbed compared with their impoverished American counterparts. As Anthony Wayne said of the troops who came with de Grasse, they made “a
very ﬁne soldierly appearance, they being all very tall men, their uniform is white
coats turned up with blue, their underclothes are white.”35
The Battle of Yorktown proceeded like a textbook European siege. The patriots
were poorly tutored in this military science in which the veteran French engineers
excelled, relegating Washington again to a secondary position. On October 1 Washington and Rochambeau scouted ground for the ﬁrst of several parallel trenches
that would edge progressively closer to the enemy. Each morning the two men
reviewed the progress, but Washington deferred to French expertise about sieges,
putting the French general in command. As Rochambeau wrote, “I must render the
Americans the justice to say that they conducted themselves with that zeal, courage,
and emulation, with which they were never backward,” although they were “totally
ignorant of the operations of a siege.”36
The British camp showed early signs of extreme distress. On October 2, while
scouring the York River through his spyglass, St. George Tucker noticed dozens of
dead horses bobbing in the water. Having run short of forage, the British had shot
the animals and dumped them in the river, crowding the water with four hundred
carcasses. A fetid and lasting stench hung over the town as dead animals rotted in
the tidal ﬂats. Two days later two British deserters drifted into the allied camp and
retailed horror stories of widespread disease among Cornwallis’s men—two thousand were already laid up in the hospital.
On the night of October 5, laboring in darkness and secrecy, the allies began
to carve out a trench two miles long. By the next morning they had thrown
up sufﬁcient dirt to form earthworks in front of it, enabling them to work while

414

r! The Gener a l

shielded from British ﬁre. Washington toured the nocturnal site, wrapped in a cloak,
without revealing his identity. During the clear, unseasonably mild autumn days, the
British raked the allied lines with almost continuous ﬁre, making it risky to move
about. They threw everything imaginable at the allies: a thick hail of musket ﬁre,
cannonballs, grapeshot, shells, and bombs. Washington again showed preternatural
calm in braving shots and never deviated from his fearless stand. It was futile for
people to insist that he protect himself. One day a cannonball landed near him, tossing a huge cloud of sand in the sky, which ﬁltered down on Chaplain Israel Evans.
He removed his hat, examined it, and said to Washington, “See here, general!” “Mr.
Evans,” Washington replied, “you had better carry that [ball] home and show it to
your wife and children.”37 Washington bore the stress gracefully, and Jacky Custis
wrote home that “the general, tho[ugh] in constant fatigue, looks very well.”38
When the ﬁrst parallel was completed on October 9, the French, in a gesture
of respect, allowed Washington to ignite the ﬁrst gun aimed at the British, which
scored a memorable shot. “I could hear the ball strike from house to house,” recalled Philip Van Cortlandt of New York, “and I was afterwards informed that it
went through the one where many of the ofﬁcers were at dinner, and over the tables,
discomposing the dishes and either killed or wounded the one at the head of the
table.”39 While American gunners lacked pinpoint accuracy, they wreaked terrible
devastation on the enemy. “One could not avoid the horribly many cannonballs,
either inside or outside the city,” said one of Cornwallis’s soldiers. “. . . Many men
were badly injured and mortally wounded by the fragments of bombs . . . [so that]
their arms and legs [were] severed or themselves struck dead.”40
A standard siege inched forward in a slow, creeping motion, with each trench
nearer the enemy. On October 12 a second trench was begun only three hundred
yards from enemy lines, and once again miners and sappers worked diligently
through the night, astounding the British the next morning with their overnight
progress and doubtless inducing a claustrophobic feeling. Day and night the cannon ﬁre was deadly, cacophonous, and incessant. Cornwallis issued a cri de coeur
to Sir Henry Clinton, asking him to send a ﬂeet and asserting that “nothing but a
direct move to York River—which includes a successful naval action—can save me.”
He concluded bleakly that “we cannot hope to make a long resistance.”41
As the second parallel neared completion, the next priority became seizing two
outlying British defenses, redoubts nine and ten, which blocked any further advance. In a spirit of Franco-American harmony, Washington assigned one redoubt
to the French, the other to Americans under Lafayette. Since the siege had been the
handiwork of gunners and engineers, affording little opportunity for swashbuckling heroism, a spirited competition arose to lead the charges. At ﬁrst Lafayette
drafted his personal aide, the Chevalier de Gimat, but this seemed unsporting to

The World Turned Upside Down r! 4 15

American soldiers, especially the determined Alexander Hamilton. After wearing
down Washington with petitions for a ﬁeld position, he had been rewarded with
command of a New York light infantry battalion. Now Hamilton, claiming seniority over Gimat, applied his persuasive powers to win the assignment of leading four
hundred men against redoubt ten. That Washington acceded to his wishes shows
not only his respect for Hamilton’s ability but his willingness to rise above personal
pettiness to patch up a quarrel.
John Adams later insisted that Hamilton had blackmailed Washington into
granting him the assignment. “You inquire what passed between Washington
and Hamilton at Yorktown?” wrote Adams (who wasn’t there) to Benjamin Rush.
“Washington had ordered . . . another ofﬁcer to take the command of the attack
upon the redoubt. Hamilton ﬂew into a violent passion and demanded the command of the party for himself and declared if he had it not, he would expose General Washington’s conduct in a pamphlet.”42 The idea that Washington would have
been cowed by a crude threat shows little understanding of the man. Such patent
blackmail would have cost Hamilton his relationship with Washington forever.
At dusk on October 14 Washington delivered a pep talk to Hamilton’s men,
urging them to “act the part of ﬁrm and brave soldiers” in storming the redoubt.43
“I thought then that His Excellency’s knees rather shook,” said Captain Stephen
Olney, “but I have since doubted whether it was not mine.”44 The artillery pounded
the two redoubts to weaken them for the assault. Then, as night fell, with shells illuminating the sky, Hamilton and his party rose from their trenches and sprinted
across the open ﬁeld. To ensure speed and surprise, they had orders not to shoot
their muskets but only to employ ﬁxed bayonets. Standing on elevated ground,
Washington watched the dramatic scene with Generals Lincoln and Knox. “Sir, you
are too much exposed here,” urged Washington’s aide David Cobb, Jr. “Had you not
better step a little back?” “Colonel Cobb,” Washington said coolly, “if you are afraid,
you have liberty to step back.”45
When they reached the redoubt, the sappers had to leap a moat and contend
with an abatis—felled trees sharpened to lethal points—which they slashed with
axes to form an opening. The French operation against redoubt number nine suffered high casualties, while Hamilton’s group sustained minimal losses. Among the
heroes of the charge was the largely black First Rhode Island Regiment. “The bravery exhibited by the attacking troops was emulous and praiseworthy,” Washington
recorded in his journal. “Few cases have exhibited stronger proofs of intrepidity,
coolness, and ﬁrmness than were shown upon this occasion.”46 By capturing the
two redoubts, the allies could now install short-range howitzers that ﬁred ricochet
projectiles, which bounced along the ground toward their target, then killed and
maimed with ghoulish efﬁciency.

4 16

r! The Gener a l

The situation looked pretty desperate for Cornwallis. In a portrait painted by
Thomas Gainsborough two years later, the highborn earl has a well-fed, sagging
face and heavy-lidded eyes; his expression is downcast, as if Yorktown still threw
a shadow. Short and stout, he had been educated at Eton and Cambridge, served
as aide-de-camp to George III, and compiled a commendable record during the
French and Indian War. Mostly amiable, he was also prone to temperamental ﬁts.
As a Whig member of Parliament, he had questioned government policy in North
America but had fought no less ﬁercely for all that and proved popular among his
men. American generals retained a healthy respect for his ﬁghting spirit. “Lord
Cornwallis’s abilities are to me more frightening than his superiority of forces,”
Lafayette wrote to Knox that August. “I even have a great opinion of him. Our
papers call him a madman, but was ever any advantage taken of him where he
commanded in person? To speak plain English, I am devilish afraid of him!”47
Cornwallis’s grave situation was aggravated by intramural squabbling with
Clinton. The two men had whined and bickered all year: Cornwallis complained
to Clinton that he was being kept “totally in the dark as to the intended operations
of the summer.”48 Clinton, in turn, distrusted Cornwallis, believing that he had bypassed his own authority to communicate directly with London. Aggravating matters was Clinton’s insistence that the French and Americans might swoop down on
New York and that he couldn’t spare men for Virginia.
As Cornwallis awaited reinforcements from New York, rumors circulated that
the trapped commander had “built a kind of grotto . . . where he lives underground.”49 Scooping out space from a hillside, Cornwallis formed his own private
bunker. By October 15 he despaired of any relief from Clinton and sent a message
that the situation was so “precarious that I cannot recommend that the ﬂeet and
army should run great risk in endeavoring to save us.”50 That same day the ﬁring of
shells from both sides reached such a feverish pitch of intensity that they sketched
patterns of hideous beauty in the sky. “They are clearly visible in the form of a black
ball in the day,” wrote James Thacher, “but in the night, they appear like ﬁery meteors with blazing tails, most beautifully brilliant.”51
More than one hundred allied cannon terrorized the town with punishing consistency. One Hessian wrote that “the bombs and cannonballs hit many inhabitants
and negroes of the city and marines, sailors, and soldiers.”52 In desperation Cornwallis took former slaves who had defected to British lines and contracted smallpox and
pushed them toward the allied lines in a version of germ warfare. One American
soldier reported “herds of Negroes” who had been “turned adrift” by Cornwallis for
this grisly purpose.53 Jacky Custis, scanning the defecting blacks for runaway slaves
from Mount Vernon, found none. “I have seen numbers [of blacks] lying dead in the
woods,” he informed his mother, “and many so exhausted they cannot walk.”54

The World Turned Upside Down r! 4 1 7

On the night of October 16 the allies crept so close to the British line that Cornwallis made a frantic effort to evacuate his army across the river to Gloucester. Banastre Tarleton, who was stationed there, sent over sixteen craft for the crossing. The
ﬁrst boat didn’t depart from Yorktown until almost eleven p.m., but a substantial
number of men made it across the river. Cornwallis scribbled a note to Washington,
asking for mercy toward the sick and wounded left behind. Then shortly before
midnight a violent storm drove the boats downriver, terminating the operation
and forcing Cornwallis to recall his men from Gloucester the next morning. He had
exhausted his last option. Surrender was now the only course left open to him.
At ten a.m. on October 17, 1781—the fourth anniversary of Burgoyne’s surrender at Saratoga—a British ofﬁcer appeared before the ramparts, ﬂapping a white
ﬂag and bearing a missive from Cornwallis. The battleﬁeld, pulverized by bombs,
fell silent. An American escort rushed to the British ofﬁcer, bandaged his eyes, and
shepherded him behind allied lines. Then a messenger on horseback transmitted
the all-important letter to Washington, who opened it and read: “Sir, I propose
a cessation of hostilities for twenty-four hours and that two ofﬁcers may be appointed by each side to meet at Mr. Moore’s house to settle terms for the surrender
of the posts of York and Gloucester. I have the honor to be, &c, Cornwallis.”55 Never
one to gloat, Washington remarked only that the message came “at an earlier period
than my most sanguine hopes had induced me to expect.”56
Washington sent Cornwallis a terse, businesslike note. “My Lord: I have had the
honor of receiving your Lordship’s letter of this date. An ardent desire to spare the
further effusion of blood will readily incline me to such terms for the surrender of
your posts and garrisons of York and Gloucester as are admissible. I wish previously
to the meeting of commissioners that your Lordship’s proposals in writing may be
sent to the American lines, for which purpose a suspension of hostilities during
two hours from the delivery of this letter will be granted. I have the honor etc.”57
Cornwallis’s return proposals conformed closely enough to Washington’s wishes
that hostilities were suspended for the night as an eerie calm settled over Yorktown.
“A solemn stillness prevailed,” St. George Tucker wrote. “The night was remarkably
clear and the sky decorated with ten thousand stars. Numberless meteors gleaming
through the atmosphere.”58 The next day soldiers waded across a hellish battleﬁeld paved with cadavers, one recalling that “all over the place and wherever you
look [there were] corpses lying about that had not been buried.”59 The majority of
the bodies, he noted, were black, reﬂecting their importance on both sides of the
conﬂict. Some of these black corpses likely belonged to runaway slaves who had
sought asylum with Cornwallis, only to be stricken during the siege with smallpox
or “camp fever”—likely typhus, a disease spread by lice and ﬂeas in overcrowded
camps.

418

r! The Gener a l

In negotiations between the commissioners, a major sticking point involved
Cornwallis’s request that his men be allowed to save face and surrender with full
military honors. John Laurens and Lafayette objected that, when Charleston fell,
Sir Henry Clinton had denied the Americans that consolation. Even though this
would deepen the dishonor of the British Army, Washington informed Cornwallis,
“The same honors will be granted to the surrendering army as were granted to the
garrison of Charleston.”60
In the shadow of a redoubt near the river, the articles of surrender were signed
at eleven a.m. on October 19. At two p.m. the French and American troops lined up
on opposite sides of a lane stretching a half mile long. Baron von Closen noted the
contrast between the “splendor” of the French soldiers, with their dress swords and
polished boots, and the Americans “clad in small jackets of white cloth, dirty and
ragged, and a number of them . . . almost barefoot.”61 Led by drummers beating a
somber march, thousands of defeated British and Hessian soldiers trudged heavily
between the allied columns, their colors tightly folded. As they ran this gauntlet,
they had to pass by every allied soldier. Legend claims that British ﬁfes and drums
played “The World Turned Upside Down.” In another reminder of allied revenge
for Charleston, General Benjamin Lincoln, who had been refused the honors of
war there, led the procession. Even at the end the British evinced a petty, spiteful
attitude toward the Americans, gazing only at the French soldiers until Lafayette
prodded the band to strike up “Yankee Doodle,” forcing the conquered army to acknowledge the hated Americans. At the end of the line, the British soldiers emerged
into an open ﬁeld, where they tossed their weapons contemptuously onto a stockpile, trying to smash them. Then they ﬁled back past the double column of victors.
The entire wonder of the American Revolution was visible for all to see. It wasn’t
the well-dressed French Army who were the true victors of the day, but the weatherbeaten, half-clad American troops.
Washington and Rochambeau waited patiently on horseback at the end of the
line. For the occasion, Washington had chosen his favorite steed, Nelson. In yet
another snub to the Americans, Cornwallis deemed it beneath his dignity to attend
the ceremony and, delivering the lame excuse that he was indisposed, sent Brigadier
General Charles O’Hara in his place. When O’Hara rode up to Rochambeau and
proffered Cornwallis’s sword, the French general motioned toward Washington as
the proper recipient. Washington had no intention of accepting the sword from
Cornwallis’s deputy and, with his usual phlegm, asked O’Hara if he would be good
enough to hand it to his American counterpart, General Lincoln. The British behavior at Yorktown, so graceless and uncouth, was the last time Americans had to
suffer such condescension.
Washington in victory was the picture of humility. In reporting to Congress, he

The World Turned Upside Down r! 4 19

deﬂected attention from himself: “The unremitting ardor which actuated every ofﬁcer and soldier in the combined army on this occasion has principally led to this
important event.”62 It was Washington’s decisive moment, but he had long since
perfected the role of bashful hero. “In performing my part towards its accomplishment,” he said, “I consider myself to have done only my duty and in the execution
of that, I ever feel myself happy.”63 That evening, taking the high road, he threw a
dinner for the French, British, and American general ofﬁcers. Although Cornwallis
was invited, he pleaded poor health and sent the sociable O’Hara in his stead. Commissary Claude Blanchard picked up the resentment of the Americans as the British
and French ofﬁcers fraternized on cordial terms. These ofﬁcers shared an identity as
Europeans, aristocrats, and members of the same professional military caste. Such
camaraderie could only have strengthened Washington’s view that French involvement in the Revolution had been motivated less by ideological sympathy than by
realpolitik. On the other hand, he knew that the Yorktown victory had depended
upon the French skill at sieges, backed up by French naval supremacy. From an
emotional standpoint, Yorktown couldn’t have been an entirely satisfying climax
for Washington, who had been consigned to a somewhat secondary role.
The next day Cornwallis made a courtesy call on Washington, and the two established a rapport based on mutual respect. They toured the Yorktown defenses
on horseback to oversee the demolition of defenses that had been erected with meticulous care. The Yorktown victory netted more than eight thousand prisoners,
who would be ordinary prisoners of war; their ofﬁcers would be allowed to return
to Europe or New York or any other port that Britain controlled. Washington dealt
leniently with Tory sympathizers who had found sanctuary with Cornwallis and
faced patriotic reprisals. He didn’t want to give them a formal reprieve, but neither
did he wish to condone vigilante actions against them. He solved the dilemma with
a subtle compromise: he allowed the British to send a ship to New York, which the
Tories could clamber aboard as an escape route.
Yorktown struck a stirring blow for American liberty with one exception: those
slaves who had ﬂocked to the British side to win their freedom were now restored to
the thrall of their owners. Washington retrieved two young house slaves—twentyyear-old Lucy and eighteen-year-old Esther—who had been among the seventeen
who had escaped aboard the British sloop Savage six months earlier, thinking
their freedom assured. He was determined to recover the remaining ﬁfteen slaves
he had lost.
In retrospect, the Yorktown victory dealt a mortal blow to British aspirations
in America. When Lord North, the portly prime minister, digested the news at 10
Downing Street, he went wild with despair. “O God!” he repeated, pacing the ﬂoor.
“It is all over!”64 The unreconstructed King George III refused to accept this reality

420

r! The Gener a l

and wanted to throw even more resources into prosecuting a hopeless conﬂict. The
victory encouraged a skeptical world to believe in American independence, and
the Dutch would grant diplomatic recognition in the spring. It isn’t clear whether
Washington grasped the full import of the victory. He praised the battle as “an interesting event that may be productive of much good if properly improved, but if it
should be the means of relaxation and sink us into supineness and [false] security,
it had better not have happened.”65 As reports drifted back from London that the
British had conceded the war was hopeless, Washington remained cautious, since
the enemy’s presence in North America was still formidable. Throughout the conﬂict he had resisted wishful thinking, and now dreaded that the Yorktown victory
might waylay people into premature complacency. Along with Lafayette, he went
out to the Ville de Paris to see if he could parlay the great triumph into joint action
against Charleston, South Carolina, or Wilmington, North Carolina, but de Grasse
declined any follow-up operation.
Washington was sufﬁciently vexed by the Frenchman’s ﬁtful cooperation that
he decided to send Lafayette to France to agitate for a more durable naval presence.
“A constant naval superiority would terminate the war speedily,” Washington told
Lafayette in mid-November. “Without it, I do not know that it will ever be terminated honorably.”66 Washington also hoped for more French generosity in the form
of a large loan or grant. “Adieu, my dear general,” Lafayette wrote from Boston
before his departure. “I know your heart so well that I am sure that no distance can
alter your attachment to me. With the same candor, I assure you that my love, my
respect, my gratitude for you are above expression.”67
A coda to the Yorktown campaign must have mortiﬁed Lord Cornwallis. On
October 17, the day of the surrender, General Clinton and his ﬂeet of six thousand
troops began their departure from New York, hoping to rescue him. When they
arrived off Chesapeake Bay a week later, they encountered three people in a small
craft who apprised them of the calamity that had occurred. Having no desire to
do battle with thirty-three French ships still lingering off the Virginia coast, they
turned around and went back to New York. The French admiral stayed in the area
long enough to protect the Continental Army as it gathered its supplies and set sail
up the bay, then headed for the long trip back to its familiar northern haunts.
The presence at Yorktown of Jacky Custis as a volunteer aide to Washington has
sparked a certain cynicism among historians. Before then Jacky had contributed
only modestly to the war effort, serving for two years as a delegate in the Virginia
assembly, where he showed a grandiosity that sometimes vexed his stepfather. He
had also invested with Washington in a privateer that prowled the Atlantic in quest
of British merchant ships. Yet he had never placed his life in jeopardy, leading to
snickers that he went to Yorktown to bask in a major victory without having paid

The World Turned Upside Down r! 4 21

his dues. If it irked Washington to see the rafﬁsh Jacky mingling with brave, hardbitten men who had sacriﬁced years to the cause, he never admitted it openly.
Amid the unsanitary conditions at Yorktown, Jacky Custis contracted camp fever. Since the condition often proved fatal, Jacky expressed a last wish to witness
Cornwallis’s surrender and was lifted to a high spot atop a redoubt, giving him a
panoramic glimpse of the ceremonies. Then he was carted thirty miles to Eltham
in New Kent County, the estate of his uncle, Burwell Bassett. Martha Washington
and Jacky’s wife, Eleanor (Nelly) Calvert Curtis, were summoned to attend him.
Preoccupied with the aftermath of victory, Washington couldn’t extricate himself
from Yorktown until November 5, when, alerted to Jacky’s perilous condition, he
hastened to Eltham. By the time he arrived, he learned that the doctors’ ministrations had failed and that Jacky Custis was dying. The young man expired a few
hours later, three weeks before his twenty-seventh birthday.
For a disconsolate Martha Washington, it was an indescribably sad moment.
Having already lost three children, she had doted on Jacky, and Washington alluded
to her “deep and solemn distress.”68 By some accounts, Washington had a profound
emotional response to Jacky’s death, clasping his bereaved widow to his bosom and
proclaiming that henceforth he regarded Jacky’s two youngest children as his own.
One French observer described Washington as “uncommonly affected” by the death
and said his friends “perceived some change in his equanimity of temper subsequent
to that event.”69 In a less sentimental vein, biographer James T. Flexner wrote bluntly
that Washington expressed “no personal grief.”70 If Washington reacted deeply to
the death, it is not surprising, for it meant that he would have no chance to improve
his strained relationship with his stepson. It was also a sobering reminder that, after
years of war, he might not return to the happy home life he had pictured.
After spending a week at Eltham and attending to Jacky’s funeral, Washington
escorted Martha and Nelly back to Mount Vernon, where they dealt with the fate
of the three small girls and baby boy who had lost their father. The Washingtons
decided to adopt informally the two youngest children, Eleanor Parke Custis, then
two years old and like her mother called Nelly, and George Washington Parke Custis, seven months old. Such informal adoptions were commonplace in the eighteenth century, when life expectancy was shorter and children often lost parents.
A gay, whimsical child, Nelly would turn into a vivacious, dark-haired little girl,
while the baby boy, nicknamed Washy or Tub, had blond hair and blue eyes and
inherited both his father’s charm and his wayward nature. With his solemn sense of
responsibility, Washington took seriously his duties toward the children and wrote
in his will that it had “always been my intention, since my expectation of having
issue has ceased, to consider the grandchildren of my wife in the same light as I do
my own relations.”71

4 22

r! The Gener a l

These two adopted children reciprocated the intense love they received and
treated George and Martha more as adored parents than as grandparents. In later
years, when she had to spend time with her biological mother, Nelly expressed her
absolute devotion to her surrogate parents: “I have gone through the greatest trial
I ever experienced—parting with my beloved grandmama . . . Since my father’s
death, she has been ever more than a mother to me and the president the most affectionate of fathers. I love them more than anyone.”72 Two years later Jacky’s widow,
Nelly, married David Stuart of Alexandria, a physician trained in Edinburgh. They
brought up the two eldest girls from the earlier marriage, Elizabeth Parke Custis
and Martha Parke Custis, and added more children to the rich private lives of the
Washingtons. Despite being a childless couple, George and Martha Washington had
extensive experience in raising children and actually had much more of a family
life, over a longer period, than most other married couples.
Jacky Custis left behind a murky legacy. Many years later his eldest daughter,
Elizabeth, who was born a year after George Washington rode off to war, told how
her father would hoist her on a table and force her to sing indecent songs that he
had taught her in order to divert his inebriated friends. “I was animated to exert
myself to give him delight,” she wrote. “The servants in the passage would join
their mirth and I, holding my head erect, would strut about the table to receive the
praises of the company. My mother remonstrated in vain.” Because he had been denied a son, Jacky told his guests that little Elizabeth “must make fun for him until he
had.”73 It would be hard to imagine a stepson more alien to George Washington.

Fol l ow i ng Yor k t ow n, Washington had to deal with another troubled dimension of his life: his prickly seventy-three-year-old mother. After Jacky’s burial,
he stopped by Fredericksburg to see her and learned that she had gone west on
a trip to Frederick County with daughter Betty and ailing son-in-law Fielding
Lewis. Mindful of her waspish comments about his ﬁnancial neglect, Washington
dropped off ten guineas before riding on to Mount Vernon. The poorly educated
Mary sent him a thank-you letter in which she misspelled his name. This letter, full
of self-pity, solicited more money: “My dear Georg I was truly unesy by Not being
at hom when you went thru Fredriceksburg it was a onlucky thing for me now I am
afraid I Never Shall have that pleasure agin I am soe very unwell this trip over the
Mountins has almost kill’d me I gott the 2 ﬁve ginnes you was so kind to send me
i am greatly obliged to you.”74 Now that George had bought her a house in Fredericksburg, she wanted one beyond the western mountains—“some little hous of
my one if it is only twelve foot squar.” In a postscript, she asked to be remembered
to Martha, then crossed out the words “I would have wrote to her but my reason

The World Turned Upside Down r! 4 23

has jis left me.”75 The world might be buzzing excitedly about Yorktown, but Mary
Washington resolutely refused to congratulate her son or even mention the event.
“When others congratulated her and were enthusiastic in [George’s praise],” wrote
Washington Irving, “she listened in silence and would temperately reply that he had
been a good son, and she believed he had done his duty as a man.”76 Neither did she
extend condolences or refer to Jacky’s death. Mary Washington had always been a
peevish, egocentric woman, but one suspects that some mild form of dementia may
have set in by this point. The failure to mention Jacky Custis’s death suggests a lapse
in short-term memory, and her allusion to her reason having “left” her indicates an
awareness of impaired mental faculties.
When Washington attended a ball in Fredericksburg to honor the French and
American ofﬁcers who had fought valiantly at Yorktown, Mary was told that His
Excellency was coming for the occasion. “His Excellency!” she snapped. “What nonsense!”77 As during the French and Indian War, Mary seemed to regard her son’s
long years of military service as a trick perpetrated to deprive her of his attention.
Rumors of her Loyalist sympathies continued to make the rounds, and one French
ofﬁcer, the Count de Clermont-Crèvecoeur, was “amazed to be told that this lady,
who must be over seventy, is one of the most rabid Tories.”78
George squired his aged mother to the Fredericksburg ball, the only occasion
when we know for sure that the two appeared in public together. Perhaps George
wanted to squelch rumors that he had abandoned his mother. Mary didn’t stay long
at the dance. At nine o’clock she announced that “it was time for the old people to
be at home” and left on her son’s arm.79 The ball was noteworthy as one of the last
times that George Washington danced away the evening, displaying the graceful virility for which he was known. Before the decade was over, his body would become
stiffer, his face worn and impassive, and history would forget the lithe, magnetic
younger man who had led the Revolution.

ch ap ter thirt y-fiv e

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Man of Moderation

F o r a l l Wa s h i n g t o n ’s s k e p t ic i s m that the war had ended, his behavior
that autumn and winter reﬂected an altered reality. He lingered at Mount Vernon
for several weeks, consoling Martha and enjoying some much-needed rest. The
man who had shuddered at the thought of prolonged separation from his restive
army spent four leisurely winter months in Philadelphia, nestled in a town house
on Third Street. From the moment he descended on the capital, Washington was
lionized at every turn. Two artistic residents, Charles Willson Peale and Alexander
Quesnay, unrolled giant transparent paintings of him in windows that, when lit
from the back, projected his glowing vision into the night, showing laurel wreaths
crowning his brow and an antique spear grasped in his hand as he crushed a British crown underfoot. The theater offered no surcease from his own omnipresent
image. Washington attended a performance of The Temple of Minerva, perhaps the
ﬁrst serious American opera, only to hear the chorus thunder from the stage, “He
comes, he comes, with conquest crowned. / Hail Columbia’s warlike son! / Hail the
glorious Washington!”1
Washington was the honored guest at every gathering and admitted sheepishly
to the Chevalier de Chastellux that his time was “divided between parties of pleasure and parties of business. The ﬁrst, nearly of a sameness at all times and places
in this infant country, is easily conceived . . . The second was only diversiﬁed by
perplexities and could afford no entertainment.”2 Taking time to lobby the states, he
urged them not to disband their regiments and asked Congress to renew its focus
on pay and provisions to stiﬂe any mutinous stirrings among his men.
Washington also received a valuable education in ﬁnance from Robert Morris,

Man of Moderation r! 4 25

who had raised money for the Continental cause on his own credit. Because the
states had refused to collect their quota of taxes, Morris couldn’t service the sizable
debt raised to ﬁnance the war. He warned that creditors “who trusted us in the
hour of distress are defrauded” and that it was pure “madness” to “expect that foreigners will trust a government which has no credit with its own citizens.”3 To end
Congress’s servile reliance on the states for money, Morris proposed that it have
the right to collect customs duties, and the ﬁght for this “impost”—the ﬁrst form
of federal taxation—became a rallying cry for proponents of an energetic central
government.
After George and Martha Washington had enjoyed their ﬁll of Philadelphia
politics and society, they took up residence in late March on the Hudson River in
their new headquarters in the town of Newburgh. They occupied a two-story stone
farmhouse with a pitched roof and twin chimneys, which sat high atop a bare bluff
on the Hudson at a dreamy bend in the river. The heart of the house was the parlor,
which Washington turned into his dining room, an eccentric space claiming the
odd distinction of having seven doors and one window.
While there, Washington approved one of the war’s most adventurous schemes:
a plot to kidnap Prince William Henry, son of King George III, along with the British admiral Robert Digby, both now resident in New York. Washington worried
that all the talk of peace would sap America’s will and act as a “fresh opiate to increase that stupor” into which the states had fallen, giving them an excuse to renege
on taxes and fail to complete their battalions.4 The kidnapping of Prince William
Henry might serve to dishearten George III. As we have seen, Washington had long
been beguiled by kidnapping plans, having ﬁrst approved one for Benedict Arnold,
then another for Sir Henry Clinton, and the plan for Prince William Henry followed a similar script. On a dark, rainy night, a squad of thirty-six men, dressed up
as sailors, would board four whaleboats on the Jersey shore of the Hudson and row
across to Manhattan. They would disable British sentinels, then grab the prince and
admiral in their riverfront quarters. With his penchant for espionage, Washington
was minutely involved in mapping out the operation.
On March 28, 1782, Washington sent a sober set of instructions to Colonel Matthias Ogden, the operation commander, setting the tone for the abduction. His
overriding concern was that the abducted dignitaries be treated respectfully, not
manhandled like rufﬁans. “I am fully persuaded,” he wrote, “that it is unnecessary
to caution you against offering insult or indignity to the persons of the prince or
admiral . . . but it may not be amiss to press the propriety of a proper line of conduct upon the party you command.”5 Washington knew that any abuse by the captors could translate into a propaganda victory for the British, yet in demanding
gentlemanly treatment of the prisoners, he also betrayed some residual respect for

426

r! The Gener a l

royalty and rank. The plan was never carried out, and Washington was enraged at
Ogden for snatching away his chance for a surprise victory. Many years later the
U.S. minister to Great Britain showed Prince William Henry, now King William IV,
Washington’s March 28 letter to Ogden. “I am obliged to General Washington for
his humanity,” the king replied, “but I’m damned glad I did not give him an opportunity of exercising it towards me.”6
Despite Washington’s skepticism about British intentions, it was hard to discount the extraordinary upheaval that occurred in London in early 1782 when
antiwar sentiment engulfed British politics and toppled Lord North’s ministry. In a
spiteful mood, King George III reﬂected that it might be better if he lost America,
since “knavery seems to be so much the striking feature of its inhabitants that it
may not be in the end an evil that they become aliens to this kingdom.”7 That spring
the Crown recalled Sir Henry Clinton and replaced him with the commander of
Canada, Sir Guy Carleton, a move that threw into relief Washington’s own amazing longevity as commander in chief. When Carleton tested Washington’s position with peace overtures, the latter dismissed them as more examples of British
trickery.
For Washington, 1782 was taken up with matters possessing more symbolic than
military meaning. The most vexing involved the treatment of prisoners, and none
caused more controversy than the case of Captain Joshua Huddy, a member of the
New Jersey militia. In April 1782 the British had captured Huddy at Toms River
and handed him over to a civilian Tory group, the Associated Loyalists, who placed
him in the custody of Captain Richard Lippincott. In a brutal act of reprisal, Lippincott decided to punish Huddy for the death of a Loyalist partisan named Philip
White, who had been captured and executed by American militiamen after he killed
one of his captors. Huddy was strung up from a tree with a note fastened to his
chest that read “Up Goes Huddy for Philip White,” along with threats of further
retribution.8 Going through the motions of justice, Sir Henry Clinton subjected
Captain Lippincott to a court-martial, which exonerated him on the ground that
he had merely obeyed orders. This caused a furor on the American side because
those orders had emanated from none other than William Franklin, the estranged
Loyalist son of Benjamin Franklin.
Aghast that the perpetrator of such a “horrid deed” was freed, Washington ordered Brigadier General Moses Hazen to choose by lot a British ofﬁcer to be executed in retaliation for Captain Huddy. Palpably torn by this decision, Washington
instructed Hazen that “every possible tenderness that is consistent with the security . . . should be shown to the person whose unfortunate lot it may be to suffer.”9
The person selected at random to die powerfully enlisted his captors’ sympathy.
Captain Charles Asgill of the First British Regiment of Foot was only nineteen and

Man of Moderation r! 4 2 7

of distinguished parentage; his father, a former lord mayor of London, had been a
Whig sympathetic to American grievances. Making the decision still more agonizing was that Asgill had been captured at Yorktown, where Washington had guaranteed the safety of prisoners in the articles of capitulation. A conﬂicted Washington
admitted that Captain Asgill was a young man “of humor and sentiment” and that
his plight engendered the “keenest anguish.”10
The projected execution blossomed into a cause célèbre as protests ﬂooded in
to Washington from abroad. Congress approved the execution, and public opinion overwhelmingly favored it. The brouhaha reawakened memories of the Major
André affair and enlisted some of the same partisans. Evidently, some coolness still
existed between Hamilton and Washington, for Hamilton protested the execution
via Henry Knox rather than directly to Washington. Of the scheduled hanging,
Hamilton insisted that “a sacriﬁce of this kind is entirely repugnant to the genius
of the age we live in and is without example in modern history . . . It is a deliberate
sacriﬁce of the innocent for the guilty and must be condemned.”11
Still haunted by André’s execution, Washington didn’t care to execute another
sensitive young British ofﬁcer and protested to one general that “while my duty
calls me to make this decisive determination, humanity dictates a fear for the unfortunate offering and inclines me to say that I most devoutly wish his life may be
saved . . . but it must be effected by the British commander-in-chief.”12 Interestingly
enough, the unsentimental Benjamin Franklin favored a tough, uncompromising
stand. “If the English refuse to deliver up or punish this murderer,” he wrote, “it is
saying that they choose to preserve him rather than Captain Asgill.”13 Aware that he
might be the target of patriotic reprisals, William Franklin ﬂed to London.
In the end Washington handled the matter shrewdly and temporized instead of
rushing to judgment. In an unexpected development, Lady Asgill pleaded her son’s
case so eloquently at the court of Versailles that the king had his foreign minister
request mercy for Captain Asgill. That November Congress obliged France by passing a resolution that granted clemency to the young British captain. It was a neat
solution to a ticklish dilemma: Captain Asgill would be released at the behest of
Louis XVI and Marie-Antoinette. Undoubtedly with enormous relief, Washington
issued a pass that would take Captain Asgill to New York, thus ending the affair. He
had dealt with it the way he would with many controversies during his presidency:
by letting them simmer instead of bringing them to a premature boil.
The French partnership, however useful most of the time, was awkward at others, requiring Washington to pay homage to the French monarchy even as Americans fought against King George III. In the spring of 1782, when Louis XVI had a
male heir, Washington was duty-bound to celebrate “the auspicious birth of a dauphin” and hope divine providence would “shed its choicest blessings upon the King

428

r! The Gener a l

of France and his royal consorts and favor them with a long, happy, and glorious
reign.”14 Having fought for independence, Americans still had no idea what sort of
government would emerge in the aftermath of a successful war. Thus far the new
nation had no real executive branch, just a few departments; no independent judiciary; and only an ineffectual Congress. For most Americans, the idea of royalty was
still anathema. On the other hand, at least a few Americans feared chaos and touted
monarchy as a possible way to ﬁll the dangerous vacuum of executive power.
On May 22, 1782, Colonel Lewis Nicola of the Continental Army had the effrontery to suggest to Washington that he reign as America’s ﬁrst monarch. He sent him
a seven-page diatribe, citing “the weakness of republics” and the Continental Army’s privations at the hands of a feckless Congress, then conjured up a benevolent
monarchy with Washington seated splendidly on the throne. “Some people have so
connected the ideas of tyranny and monarchy as to ﬁnd it very difﬁcult to separate
them . . . but if all other things are once adjusted, I believe strong arguments might
be produced for admitting the title of king.”15
While he had roundly berated congressional ineptitude, Washington had never
entertained the idea of a monarchy and was left to wonder whether Nicola was the
instrument of a covert army faction that favored a king. His reply, sent the same
day, fairly breathed with horror. What makes the letter so impressive is its ﬁnality—
this serpent must be killed in the egg: “Be assured, sir, no occurrence in the course
of the war has given me more painful sensations than your information of there
being such ideas existing in the army as you have expressed and [that] I must view
with abhorrence and reprehend with severity.”16 He didn’t dare tell a soul about
Nicola’s letter, he said, lest it contaminate men’s minds: “I am much at a loss to
conceive what part of my conduct could have given encouragement to an address
which to me seems big with the greatest mischiefs that can befall my country. If I
am not deceived in the knowledge of myself, you could not have found a person
to whom your schemes are more disagreeable . . . Let me conjure you then, if you
have any regard for your country, concern for yourself or posterity, or respect for
me, to banish these thoughts from your mind.”17 Washington set such store by this
momentous letter that, for the only time in the war, he demanded proof from his
aides that his response was sealed and posted. Stunned, Nicola stammered out three
replies in as many days, offering apologies for broaching the taboo subject.
During the summer of 1782 Washington showed his willingness to accept recognition of a more democratic sort when the newly incorporated Washington College
was named in his honor in Chestertown, Maryland. Washington seldom allowed
the use of his name, suggesting that he was ﬂattered by this distinction. “I am much
indebted for the honor conferred on me by giving my name to the college at Chester,” he wrote to the Reverend William Smith, the school’s ﬁrst president, a Scottish

Man of Moderation r! 4 2 9

Anglican clergyman. Washington donated ﬁfty guineas to the school—promptly
used to purchase optical instruments—and also served on its board.18 Always regretting his own lack of a college education, Washington had surrounded himself
with college-educated men, and his patronage of Washington College was perhaps
a ﬁnal way of wiping away that ancient stigma. In 1789 he received an honorary
degree from the school.
At times during this uneventful year, Washington sent halfhearted letters to
Rochambeau, proposing operations against New York or Charleston—suggestions
that came to naught. Suspecting a British ploy, Washington scoffed at rumors of a
negotiated peace in the ofﬁng and grew especially vigilant after Admiral Rodney
defeated de Grasse in the Caribbean in April, sending London into a delirium of
joy. Even when ofﬁcial word came in August from the British command in New
York that peace talks had been opened in Paris, Washington still couldn’t conquer
his ingrained suspicion. “That the King will push the war as long as the nation will
ﬁnd men or money admits not of a doubt in my mind,” he said ﬂatly.19 A thoroughgoing skeptic in foreign policy, Washington denigrated the British as devoid
of idealism and driven only by pride and self-interest. Before setting aside arms, he
wanted nothing less than “an absolute, unequivocal admission of American independence,” he told Thomas Paine.20 After all these years of war, Washington was still
a hot-blooded militant and railed against “the persevering obstinacy of the king,
the wickedness of his ministry and the haughty pride” of the British nation.21 Such
moral fervor had sustained him during the prolonged conﬂict.
Afraid that his army might relax its guard prematurely, he kept drilling troops
on the parade ground, demanded that his men look sharp, and barked out a steady
stream of instructions: “The commander in chief recommends to the ofﬁcers to pay
particular attention to the carriage of their men either upon parade or marching . . .
Nothing contributes so much to the appearance of a soldier, or so plainly indicates
discipline, as an erect carriage, ﬁrm step, and steady countenance.”22 He indicated
his displeasure that soldiers didn’t “step boldly and freely, but short and with bent
knees.”23 Not only did he want his men to look bright and snappy, but he wanted
them housed in style, insisting that “regularity, convenience, and even some degree
of elegance should be attended to in the construction of their huts.”24
To maintain the ﬁghting spirit of his army, Washington introduced a decoration that came to be known as the “Purple Heart.” In cases of “unusual gallantry”
or “extraordinary ﬁdelity and essential service,” soldiers would receive a purple
heart-shaped cloth, to be worn over the left breast.25 Since it was to be conferred on
noncommissioned ofﬁcers and ordinary soldiers, the decoration supplied further
proof of Washington’s growing egalitarian spirit during the war. (After a lapse in its
use, the Purple Heart was revived by presidential order in 1932, and anyone in the

430

r! The Gener a l

U.S. Army became eligible for it.) At the time when Washington inaugurated the
honor, ﬁghting had largely ceased, and only isolated deaths remained in the war.
One of the last victims was his sparkling young aide John Laurens, who had hoped
to raise black troops in the South. “Poor Laurens is no more,” Washington wrote
glumly to Lafayette that October. “He fell in a triﬂing skirmish in South Carolina,
attempting to prevent the enemy from plundering the country of rice.”26
Washington didn’t know that on November 30, 1782, a preliminary peace treaty
had been signed in Paris and that the American side had won everything it could
have wished, including recognition of independence and broad borders stretching
north to the Great Lakes and west to the Mississippi. Washington got a glimmer of
the truth in mid-December when the British general Alexander Leslie and his troops
sailed from Charleston, South Carolina; a few hours later Nathanael Greene entered
the city, bringing the southern war to a close. Washington congratulated Greene “on
the glorious end you have put to hostilities in the southern states.”27 Whenever Washington lauded Greene, his praise never contained even a twinge of envy, only unmistakable pride. In marking the conclusion of southern combat, he paid lavish tribute
to Greene, stating that “this happy change has been wrought, almost solely, by the
personal abilities of Major Gen[era]l Greene.”28 This rosey outcome justiﬁed the faith
Washington had shown early in the war, when Greene had blundered at Fort Washington and another commander might have lost all conﬁdence in him.
What should have been a joyous moment for Washington turned into a troubled
one. The national treasury had again run empty, the states having failed to make
their requisite payments. As another icy winter loomed, Washington sensed deep
discontent roiling his troops. Suddenly reluctant to leave them alone in Newburgh,
he relinquished his cherished hope of returning to Mount Vernon. At ﬁrst he even
declined to ask Martha to make her annual pilgrimage to the camp, although he
relented and she arrived in December. “The temper of the army is much soured,”
he told one congressman in mid-November, “and has become more irritable than
at any period since the commencement of the war.”29 Girding himself for disturbances, he vowed to stick close to his men and “try like a careful physician to prevent if possible the disorders getting to an incurable height.”30
Sitting in his snowbound Newburgh quarters, Washington wouldn’t hear about
the provisional peace treaty until February. In the meantime, he knew the time “will
pass heavily on in this dreary mansion in which we are fast locked by frost and snow.”31
Affected by the frigid weather and isolation of Newburgh, Washington sounded a
somber note in his letters. He wrote to General Heath, “Without amusements or avocations, I am spending another winter (I hope it will be the last that I shall be kept
from returning to domestic life) among these rugged and dreary mountains.”32
The army’s sullen discontent revolved around the same stale complaints that

Man of Moderation r! 431

had beset Washington throughout the war. As he recounted them to Major General John Armstrong, “The army, as usual, are without pay and a great part of the
soldiery without shirts. And tho[ugh] the patience of them is equally threadbare,
the states seem perfectly indifferent to their cries.”33 The soldiers were so famished
that when local vendors peddled produce at their huts, they often plundered these
simple country folk. Once again Washington couldn’t locate forage for his starving
horses, complaining at Christmas that they “have been four days without a handful
of hay and three of the same without a mouthful of grain.”34 The upshot of this outrageous situation was that ofﬁcers canceled business that could be conducted only
on horseback and found it impossible to confer with Washington at headquarters.
Dissatisfaction in the ranks was only sharpened by talk of demobilizing the
army, which was rattled by the possible outbreak of peace. As long as soldiers remained together, they shared a common sense of purpose; once sent home, they
would contrast their own impecunious state with that of the well-fed civilian population. As Washington explained to General Benjamin Lincoln, they were “about to
be turned into the world, soured by penury and what they call the ingratitude of
the public, involved in debts, without one farthing of money to carry them home.”35
What made the disaffection most disturbing was that it stemmed from the ofﬁcers,
who subsisted on such meager rations that, even when entertaining French ofﬁcers, they could offer little more than “stinking whiskey” and “a bit of beef without
vegetables.”36 Many doubted they would receive years of back pay owed to them or
that Congress would redeem its 1780 pledge to provide veterans with half pay for
life. Washington wondered darkly what would happen if the ofﬁcers who had suppressed previous mutinies turned mutinous themselves.
As he dealt with this discontent, Washington again had to deal with his disgruntled mother. Mary Washington had written to apprise him that the overseer at
her Little Falls Quarter farm was pocketing all the proﬁts for himself, and this made
George no less upset than his mother. As he told brother Jack, he had maintained
this place for her with “no earthly inducement to meddle with it, but to comply with
her wish and to free her from care,” but he hadn’t received a penny in return. He
protested that it was “too much while I am suffering in every other way (and hardly
able to keep my own estate from sale), to be saddled with all the expense of hers and
not be able to derive the smallest return from it.”37 This parenthetical statement—
that he could hardly keep Mount Vernon safe from sale again—reveals the dreadful
toll that his neglected business interests had taken on his personal fortune.
After asking Jack to stop by Little Falls to replace the overseer, Washington mentioned that he had heard nothing further of their mother’s petition for a pension
from the Virginia assembly. But it turned out that Mary was still up to her old antics
and broadcasting her ﬁnancial grievances to anyone who cared to listen. As Washing-

432

r! The Gener a l

ton worried anew that she would blacken his reputation, his repressed anger toward
her, long tamped down, spilled out. He told his brother that he had learned “from
very good authority that she is upon all occasions and in all companies complaining
of the hardness of the times, of her wants and distresses; and if not in direct terms,
at least by strong innuendoes, inviting favors which not only makes her appear in an
unfavorable point of view, but those also who are connected with her.”38 As someone
who jealously guarded his reputation, Washington was crestfallen by Mary’s unending torrent of abuse, and he dispatched Jack on a private mission to visit her and
“inquire into her real wants and see what is necessary to make her comfortable.”39
As always, Washington was ready to pay what she needed, but he demanded that she
halt the character assassination: “I wish you to represent to her in delicate terms the
impropriety of her complaints and acceptance of favors, even where they are voluntarily offered, from any but relations.”40 As always, the headstrong mother and son
were locked in a ﬁerce contest of wills in which both sides refused to yield an inch.
Around this time Washington discovered that his vision had grown slightly
blurry and that it cleared when he borrowed spectacles from his colleagues. He had
become older and wearier during this long war, and the eyestrain caused by reading
his copious correspondence had been enormous. He ordered a pair of handsome
silver-framed reading glasses from David Rittenhouse of Philadelphia, a renowned
astronomer and optical expert. Washington sampled the lenses of various people,
then asked Rittenhouse to duplicate the ones that worked best. By mid-February he
had the new reading glasses in hand but had to keep tilting them at different angles
until his eyes adjusted to the novel experience. “At present, I ﬁnd some difﬁculty in
coming at the proper focus,” he informed Rittenhouse, “but when I do obtain it,
they magnify properly and show those objects very distinctly which at ﬁrst appear
like a mist, blended together and confused.”41 Little did Rittenhouse know, as he
fashioned these spectacles, that they would soon serve as a key prop in one of the
most emotionally charged scenes in American history.

I n e a r ly Ja n ua ry, amid rumors of mass resignations, a three-man delegation
of ofﬁcers went to Philadelphia to lay before Congress a petition that catalogued
their pent-up grievances: “We have borne all that men can bear—our property is
expended—our private resources are at an end.”42 This delegation met with two
dynamic young members of Congress: James Madison of Virginia, a member since
1780, and Alexander Hamilton of New York, who had joined Congress a little more
than a month earlier. However alarmed by the prospect of an ofﬁcer mutiny, Hamilton believed it might represent a handy lever with which to budge a lethargic Congress from inaction, leading to expanded federal powers.

Man of Moderation r! 433

On February 13 Hamilton wrote to Washington in a candid tone that presupposed that a profound understanding still existed between them. He talked of the
critical state of American ﬁnances and suggested that the ofﬁcer revolt could be
helpful: “The claims of the army, urged with moderation but with ﬁrmness, may
operate on those weak minds which are inﬂuenced by their apprehensions rather
than their judgment . . . But the difﬁculty will be to keep a complaining and suffering
army within the bounds of moderation.”43 In suggesting that Washington exploit
the situation to inﬂuence Congress, Hamilton toyed with combustible chemicals.
He also tried to awaken anxiety in Washington by telling him that ofﬁcers were
whispering that he didn’t stand up for their rights with sufﬁcient zeal. “The falsehood of this opinion no one can be better acquainted with than myself,” Hamilton
emphasized, “but it is not the less mischievous for being false.”44
On March 4 Washington sent Hamilton a thoughtful response and disclosed
grave premonitions about the crisis. “It has been the subject of many contemplative
hours,” he told Hamilton. “The sufferings of a complaining army, on one hand, and
the inability of Congress and tardiness of the states on the other, are the forebodings
of evil.”45 He voiced concern at America’s ﬁnancial plight and told of his periodic
frustration at being excluded from congressional decisions. If Congress didn’t receive enlarged powers, he maintained, revolutionary blood would have been spilled
in vain. After spelling out areas of agreement with Hamilton, however, Washington
said he refused to deviate from the “steady line of conduct” he had pursued and
insisted that the “sensible and discerning” ofﬁcers would listen to reason. He also
asserted that any attempt to exploit ofﬁcer discontent might only “excite jealousy
and bring on its concomitants.”46 It was a noble letter: Washington refused to pander to any political agenda, even one he agreed with, and he would never encroach
upon the civilian prerogatives of Congress. In a later letter Washington was even
blunter with Hamilton, warning him that soldiers weren’t “mere puppets” and that
the army was “a dangerous instrument to play with.”47
The ofﬁcers continued to believe that Philadelphia politicians remained deaf
to their pleas, and Washington had no inkling that they would soon resort to more
muscular measures. In his general orders for March 10, he dwelt on a mundane
topic, the need for uniform haircuts among the troops. Then he learned of an
anonymous paper percolating through the camp, summoning ofﬁcers to a mass
meeting the next day to air their grievances—a brazen affront to Washington’s authority and, to his mind, little short of outright mutiny. Then a second paper made
the rounds, further stoking a sense of injustice. Its anonymous author was, in all
likelihood, John Armstrong, Jr., an aide-de-camp to Horatio Gates, who mocked
the peaceful petitions drawn up by the ofﬁcers and warned that, come peace, they
might “grow old in poverty, wretchedness, and contempt.”48 Before being stripped

43 4

r! The Gener a l

of their weapons by an armistice, they should now take direct action: “Change the
milk and water style of your last memorial—assume a bolder tone . . . And suspect
the man who would advise to more moderation and longer forbearance.”49 The
man of moderation was, of course, George Washington. When handed a copy of
this manifesto, he conceded its literary power, later saying that “in point of composition, in elegance and force of expression” it had “rarely been equaled in the English language.”50 That only made it the more threatening, for it aroused the prospect
of a military putsch.
Washington banned the outlaw meeting. In announcing the measure, he subtly tried to shame the ofﬁcers by saying that their good sense would lead them to
“pay very little attention to such an irregular invitation.”51 Instead of negating their
grievances, he tried to champion and divert them into orderly channels and called
his own meeting at noon on March 15. Suspicious of how quickly events had moved,
Washington voiced his fears to Hamilton the next day. A nameless gentleman—
Colonel Walter Stewart—had come to the Newburgh camp, he said, and told the
ofﬁcers that public creditors would support their mutiny as a way to guarantee
repayment of their loans. Stewart further suggested that certain congressmen supported the mutiny as a way of prodding delinquent states into paying promised
taxes to the central government. There is no overt sense in this letter of Washington
accusing Hamilton of orchestrating the plot from Philadelphia. Rather, he exhorted
him to take timely action to redress the ofﬁcers’ complaints, contending that many
were so short of funds that they might be clapped into debtors’ prisons upon release
from the army. The failure to take appropriate measures, Washington forewarned,
would plunge the country “into a gulf of civil horror from which there might be
no receding.”52
In calling his meeting, Washington waited a few days to allow cooler heads to
prevail. For its venue, he chose the same place as that proposed for the subversive
gathering, a new building nicknamed the Temple of Virtue, a cavernous wooden
structure completed a month earlier for Sunday services, dances, and Masonic
meetings. Although this meeting proceeded under Washington’s auspices, he was
not expected to attend, heightening the dramatic effect when he slipped through a
side door into the packed hall. It was one of the infrequent occasions when his selfcontrol crumbled and an observer described him as “sensibly agitated.”53
It was the ﬁrst and only time Washington ever confronted a hostile assembly of
his own ofﬁcers. Mounting the podium, he drew out his prepared remarks, written
on nine long sheets covered with exclamation points and dashes for pauses, revealing the strong sense of cadence he gave to his speeches. He began by chastising the
ofﬁcers for improper conduct in calling an irregular meeting and disputed that
Congress was indifferent to their plight, stressing the need for making dispassionate

Man of Moderation r! 435

decisions. Then, with considerable agility, he cast aside the stern tone and stressed
his personal bond with his fellow ofﬁcers, speaking as a man as well as a general and
building rhetorical force through repetition:
If my conduct heretofore has not evinced to you that I have been a faithful friend
to the army, my declaration of it at this time w[oul]d be equally unavailing and
improper. But as I was among the ﬁrst who embarked in the cause of our common
country. As I have never left your side one moment, but when called from you on
public duty. As I have been the constant companion and witness of your distresses
and not among the last to feel and acknowledge your merits . . . it can scarcely be supposed at this late stage of the war that I am indifferent to [your] interests.54

Instead of elevating himself above his men, Washington portrayed himself as their
friend and peer.
Having softened them up with personal history, he delivered an impassioned
appeal to their deep-seated patriotism. The idea ﬂoated by the anonymous pamphleteer that they should take up arms against their country “has something so
shocking in it that humanity revolts at the idea. My God! What can this writer have
in view by recommending such measures? Can he be a friend to the army? Can he
be a friend to this country? Rather, is he not an insidious foe? Some emissary, perhaps, from New York, plotting the ruin of both by sowing the seeds of discord and
separation between the civil and military powers of the continent?”55
He pleaded with them to oppose any man “who wickedly attempts to open the
ﬂoodgates of civil discord and deluge our rising empire in blood.”56 Give Congress
a chance to address your grievances, he implored the ofﬁcers, saying he would do
everything in his power to help them. Then, in ringing tones, he said that if they
trusted Congress to take action, “you will, by the dignity of your conduct, afford
occasion for posterity to say, when speaking of the glorious example you have exhibited to mankind, ‘Had this day been wanting, the world had never seen the last
stage of perfection to which human nature is capable of attaining.’”57
It was an exemplary performance from a man uncomfortable with public
speaking. He had castigated his ofﬁcers but also lifted them to a higher plane, reawakening a sense of their exalted role in the Revolution and reminding them that
illegal action would tarnish that grand legacy. For all his eloquence, Washington
achieved his greatest impact with a small symbolic gesture. To reassure the men of
congressional good faith, he read aloud a letter from Congressman Joseph Jones of
Virginia and tripped over the ﬁrst few sentences because he couldn’t discern the
words. Then he pulled out his new spectacles, shocking his fellow ofﬁcers: they had
never seen him wearing glasses. “Gentlemen, you must pardon me,” he said. “I have

43 6

r! The Gener a l

grown gray in your service and now ﬁnd myself growing blind.”58 These poignant
words exerted a powerful inﬂuence. Washington at ﬁfty-one was much older and
more haggard than the young planter who had taken charge of the Continental
Army in 1775. The disarming gesture of putting on the glasses moved the ofﬁcers to
tears as they recalled the legendary sacriﬁces he had made for his country. When he
left the hall moments later, the threatened mutiny had ended, and his victory was
complete. The ofﬁcers approved a unanimous resolution stating they “reciprocated
[Washington’s] affectionate expressions with the greatest sincerity of which the human heart is capable.”59 Luckily, Congress delivered on Washington’s promise and,
instead of half pay for life, granted the ofﬁcers payment equal to ﬁve years of full
pay. The threat of a military takeover had been averted by Washington’s succinct
but brilliant, well-timed oratory.
Making good on his pledges, Washington wrote impassioned letters to Congress
on behalf of the ofﬁcers’ ﬁnances. In one to Joseph Jones, he said that Congress
shouldn’t rely on him again to “dispel other clouds, if any should arise, from the
causes of the last.”60 Perhaps he sensed that a deity couldn’t step down from the
clouds more than once without dispelling his mystique. He had tamed his mutinous ofﬁcers and established congressional supremacy in the nick of time. A few
days later he received word that a preliminary peace treaty had been signed in Paris.
In mid-April Congress ratiﬁed the treaty, leading to a formal cessation of hostilities
eight years after the ﬁrst shots rang out in Lexington and Concord.
The man who had pulled off the exemplary feat of humbling the most powerful military on earth had not been corrupted by fame. Though quietly elated and
relieved, he was neither intoxicated by power nor puffed up with a sense of his own
genius. On April 15 a Jamaican visitor dined with Washington at his Newburgh
headquarters and was amazed at the simplicity of the scene: “The dinner was good,
but everything was quite plain. We all sat on camp stools . . . Mrs. W[ashington]
was as plain, easy, and affable as [the general] was and one would have thought
from the familiarity which prevailed here that he saw a respectable private gentleman dining at the head of his own family.”61 Washington shunned the conqueror’s
bravado. “In his dress he was perfectly plain—an old blue coat faced with buff,
waistcoat and britches . . . seemingly of the same age and without any lace upon
them composed his dress,” the visitor wrote. “His shirt had no rufﬂes at the wrists,
but [was] of very ﬁne linen . . . His hair is a little gray and combed smoothly back
from the forehead and in a small queue—no curls and but very little powder to it.
Such is the man, but his character I cannot presume to describe—it is held in the
highest veneration over the whole continent.”62

ch ap ter thirt y-si x

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Closing the Drama with Applause

By t h e spr i ng of 17 83 George Washington had visibly aged, as evidenced by
his gray hair and failing eyesight. “He was ﬁne-looking until three years ago,” an
aide to Rochambeau had reported a year earlier, adding that “those who have been
constantly with him since that time say that he seems to have grown old fast.”1 It
could only have saddened a man of his athletic vitality to feel his powers begin to
ebb. One great blow to Washington’s sense of well-being was the steady deterioration of his teeth. While in the eyes of posterity his dental problems rank among his
best-known attributes, he did everything he could to screen the trouble from contemporaries. An air of extreme secrecy shrouded his dealings with dentists, as if he
were dabbling in a dark, shameful art. Perhaps he sensed that nothing could subvert
his heroic image more unalterably than derisory sniggers about his teeth.
As early as the French and Indian War, Washington had had a tooth pulled,
and thereafter his papers are replete with allusions to dental tribulations. From
one London apothecary, he ordered “sponge” toothbrushes and bottles of tincture
designed to soothe toothaches. A typical complaint in his diaries reads: “indisposed
with an aching tooth and swelled and inﬂamed gums.”2 By 1773 he found it agonizing to chew meals. His customary solution was to pull troublesome teeth, and, while
sitting in the House of Burgesses, he kept busy a Williamsburg dentist, Dr. John
Baker. When he painted Washington in 1779, the observant Charles Willson Peale
spotted an indentation just below Washington’s left cheekbone, the by-product of
an abscessed tooth.
By 1781 Washington had partial dentures made with a bone and ivory framework, secured to natural teeth and held together by a primitive mesh of wires. Be-

43 8

r! The Gener a l

fore marching south to Yorktown, he wrote with some urgency to Dr. Baker, asking
for “a pair of pincers to fasten the wire of my teeth” and also “one of your scrapers,
as my teeth stand in need of cleaning.”3 At this point Washington had a small arsenal
of devices to keep his aching mouth in working order. In a secret, locked drawer of
his desk at Mount Vernon, he preserved a pair of pulled teeth and not long before
the Newburgh mutiny asked Lund to wrap them up carefully and send them along.
His objective was to have Dr. Baker insert them into a partial bridge; the dentist was
to send him plaster of paris or some other powder to create a model of his mouth.
When this letter was intercepted by the British, it occasioned some sadistic merriment while leaving poor Washington in considerable distress. The episode could
only have strengthened his self-consciousness about his dental problems.
As it turned out, deliverance lay at hand in the person of an eminent French
dentist, Dr. Jean-Pierre Le Mayeur, who had worked in occupied New York, treating Sir Henry Clinton and other British generals. One day a British ofﬁcer made
a cutting remark about the French alliance with America, and the dentist rushed
indignantly to his country’s defense, ending the honeymoon with the British. Having established his patriotic credentials, Dr. Le Mayeur passed over to the American side, where his reputation preceded him. Washington was eager to consult the
Frenchman, “of whose skill much has been said,” but he wanted the matter treated
with utmost discretion, telling his intermediary categorically that “I would not wish
that this matter should be made a parade of.”4 Thorough in all things, Washington
demanded “a private investigation of this man’s character and knowledge of his
profession” before he opened up his mouth to his ministrations.5
In June 1783, when Washington consulted the urbane Le Mayeur in conﬁdence
at Newburgh, he handled their relationship as furtively as if he were meeting a
master spy. (He seemed mystiﬁed by the spelling of the Frenchman’s name, calling
him La Moyuer at one point, as if he dared not check the spelling with a potentially
indiscreet third party.) Evidently, the dentist agreed to craft a pair of partial dentures. Washington responded with an elliptical letter that resorted to euphemisms,
never mentioning such explosive words as dental or dentures in case unfriendly eyes
stumbled upon it. “The valise arrived safe, as did the three articles which accompanied your card,” Washington wrote cryptically. “. . . The small matters [his teeth?]
which were expected from Virginia are not yet received, and it is to be feared will
never be found.”6
Always a tough, leery customer, Washington was skeptical about claims made
for transplanted teeth. The following year, when Le Mayeur performed a successful transplant upon Richard Varick, it made a convert of Washington. According
to Mary Thompson, Washington bought nine teeth in 1784 from certain nameless
“Negroes” for thirteen shillings apiece.7 Whether he wanted the teeth implanted di-

Closing the Drama with Applause r! 439

rectly in his mouth or incorporated into dentures, we cannot say. However ghoulish
this trade sounds to modern readers, it was then standard practice for rich people
to purchase teeth from the poor. In his advertisements, Dr. Le Mayeur offered to
buy teeth from willing vendors and bid “three guineas for good front teeth from
anyone but slaves.”8 This suggests a stigma among white people about having slaves’
teeth. We can deduce that Washington’s dental transplant miscarried, since by the
time of his presidential inauguration in 1789, he had only a single working tooth
remaining.

O n A pr il 18 , 17 83 , Washington announced the cessation of hostilities between
America and Great Britain and seemed to pinch himself with wonder as he evoked
“the almost inﬁnite variety of scenes thro[ugh] which we have passed with a mixture of pleasure, astonishment, and gratitude.”9 The normally prudent Washington,
throwing caution to the winds, rhapsodized about America’s future, saying of the
patriotic soldiers who had wrested freedom from Great Britain that “happy, thrice
happy shall they be pronounced hereafter . . . in erecting this stupendous fabric of
freedom and empire on the broad basis of independence . . . and establishing an asylum for the poor and oppressed of all nations and religions.”10 As always when casting
events in grandiose historical terms, he fell back on a theatrical metaphor: “Nothing
now remains but for the actors of this mighty scene to preserve a perfect, unvarying
consistency of character through the very last act” and then “close the drama with
applause.”11 Washington ordered his quartermaster general to gather up discharges so
he could begin sending soldiers home. In a wonderful tribute to his men, he personally signed thousands of these documents. His hand surely ached from this gesture,
which spoke volumes about the affection and empathy he had developed for them.
Unwilling to abandon his command until the ﬁnal peace treaty was signed and
the British had evacuated New York, Washington still had no ﬁrm plans to return
to Virginia. He had to cope with nettlesome racial issues, as the armistice reopened
questions about the status of former slaves. When a slaveholder named Jonathan
Hobby tried to recapture a runaway slave serving in the Third Massachusetts Regiment, Washington shunted the matter to a board of inquiry, which ruled that the
soldier in question hadn’t yet served out his term. Refusing to release the black soldier, Washington dodged the deeper issue of whether a slave master could reclaim
a fugitive slave in the Continental Army. Hardly an abolitionist, Washington ﬁelded
messages from incensed southern slaveholders inquiring about the fate of slaves
who had dashed to freedom behind British lines. Washington seemed caught off
guard. “Although I have several servants in like predicament with yours,” he told
one Virginia slaveholder, “I have not yet made any attempt for their recovery.”12

4 40

r! The Gener a l

During the war, encouraged by the idealistic camaraderie of Laurens, Hamilton,
and Lafayette, Washington may have entertained occasional thoughts of abolishing
slavery. Now the war’s imminent end turned the question of runaway slaves into
an urgent practical matter. Deeply ambivalent, he straddled both sides of the issue.
That April, when Governor Benjamin Harrison of Virginia sent him a list of his
slaves who had defected to the British side, Washington forwarded it to a Daniel
Parker, who was deputized to recapture them. Washington feigned a cavalier indifference toward the fate of his own slaves who had found refuge aboard the Savage.
“I scarce ever bestowed a thought on them,” he assured Harrison. “They have so
many doors through which they can escape from New York that scarce anything but
an inclination to return or voluntarily surrender of themselves will restore many
to their former masters.”13 Did Washington, after eight years of ﬁghting for freedom, feel vaguely guilty about reclaiming fugitive slaves? Did that clash with the
way he had presented himself as a potential abolitionist in wartime discussions
with his devoted young aides? When he contacted Parker in late April, Washington
expressed skepticism that his own fugitive slaves would be found, while leaving no
doubt he yearned for their recapture: “If by chance you should come at the knowledge of any of them, I will be much obliged by your securing them, so that I may
obtain them again.”14
By now Washington had opened a civilized correspondence with Sir Guy Carleton about enforcing the peace treaty. No vengeance was apparent in Washington’s
letters, only a humane spirit of wishing to retire any residual bitterness. This goodwill was soon threatened by the fate of three thousand escaped slaves in New York,
many eking out a desperate existence as they squatted in camps of makeshift huts
roofed with sailcloth. The city swarmed with slave catchers hired by southern masters to nab runaway slaves before they left aboard British ships. Even though one
article of the peace treaty stipulated that Americans would be allowed to reclaim
their slaves, Carleton balked at relinquishing these black refugees, claiming they
had won their freedom when they reached British lines. To buttress this ruling, he
issued three thousand certiﬁcates to protect the former slaves, making it a crime for
anyone to abduct them.
Under mounting pressure from southern slave masters, Washington arranged a
meeting with Carleton in early May at his own temporary headquarters on the Hudson River at Tappan, New York. Although they also discussed prisoner exchanges
and evacuating British posts, slavery formed the crux of the meeting. Washington
conducted himself with impeccable ceremony, greeting Carleton’s frigate Perseverance by the river, then proceeding with him by carriage up to a quaint little gabled
house with beamed ceilings. Though suffering from a slight fever, Carleton sat tall
and ramrod-straight, a man of inﬂexible integrity. In their talks, Washington’s de-

Closing the Drama with Applause r! 4 4 1

meanor was gravely cordial, and one of Carleton’s aides said that he “delivered himself without animation, with great slowness, and a low tone of voice.”15
Refusing to shrink from his unpleasant task, Washington said he intended to
take possession “of all negroes and other property of the inhabitants of these states”
being held by the British.16 When Carleton retorted that he had just evacuated six
thousand people from New York to Nova Scotia, many of them black, Washington
bridled at this apparent violation of the treaty. “Already embarked!” he exclaimed.17
One internal British memo portrayed Washington as demanding the slaves’ return
“with all the grossness and ferocity of a captain of banditti.”18 Although Washington didn’t know it at the time, four of his slaves were among those being protected
by the British. A former slave named Henry Washington had escaped from Mount
Vernon in 1776 and would ultimately wind up in Sierra Leone, where he would
apply agricultural techniques learned from George Washington. Of the seventeen
slaves who found refuge on the Savage in 1781, Washington regained two of the
women at Yorktown and at least six of the men in Philadelphia.
Seizing the moral high ground, the honorable Carleton insisted that the British would not renege on wartime promises to free slaves who had joined their
ranks and stated with memorable certitude that “the national honor . . . must be
kept with all colors.”19 Returning the former slaves “would be delivering them up,
some possibly to execution and others to severe punishment, which in his opinion
would be a dishonorable violation of the public faith pledged to the Negroes in the
proclamations.”20
Although they didn’t say so openly, the British feared that some ex-slaves would
commit suicide rather than return to bondage. Trepidation was rampant in the
community of ex-slaves at the thought of returning to their masters. “This dreadful rumor ﬁlled us all with inexpressible anguish and terror,” said a young black
carpenter named Boston King, “especially when we saw our old masters coming
from Virginia, North Carolina, and other parts and seizing upon their slaves in the
streets of New York or even dragging them out of their beds.”21 Carleton claimed
that the British had pledged not to carry off slaves but never promised to restore
them to owners. He left open the possibility of compensating the owners of slaves
who had ﬂed after hostilities ended and claimed to be keeping a register of former
slaves for this purpose. Washington insisted that slaves would give false names and
make detection impossible. Both sides agreed to name commissioners to arbitrate
the issue and check passengers boarding ships in New York, although Washington
doubted that former slaves would ever be reclaimed. Whatever his displeasure, he
conducted himself like a gentleman. “Washington pulled out his watch, and, observing that it was near dinner time, offered wine and bitters,” recalled Carleton’s
aide. “We all walked out and soon after were called to [a] plentiful repast under a

442

r! The Gener a l

tent.”22 In the aftermath of the meeting, the British refused to water down Carleton’s noble stand, and King George III indicated “his royal approbation” in “the
fullest and most ample manner.”23 Before long the American commissioners in New
York City found that they could only watch former slaves boarding ships and lacked
any power to detain them.

A s Wa sh i ngt on c on t e m pl at e d the postwar world and wondered how to
make America happy, free, and powerful, he was uniquely well positioned to affect the outcome. Adams, Jay, and Franklin were off on diplomatic assignment in
Europe, while Hamilton and Madison were too junior to assume leadership roles.
Washington had eliminated or outlived his military rivals, leaving his stature unequaled. Since the Continental Army had suffered most from the defective Articles
of Confederation, Washington was a natural proponent of national unity and worried about anarchy and bloodshed erupting in the war’s aftermath. He saw that
the states, to protect themselves against European interference, needed to band together in a more effective union and that Congress required an independent revenue source to service wartime debt.
The prospect of peace posed exceptional challenges for Washington. Throughout the war, he had scrupulously respected congressional supremacy and restricted
expressing his political opinions to private correspondence. By serving as a blank
slate onto which Americans could project their values, he had been able to unify the
country and enhance his own power. Now, as he returned to the status of a private
citizen, those inhibitions were lifted, and he did not know how far to go in articulating his views openly. His instincts were the antithesis of a demagogue’s: he feared
his own influence and agonized over exerting too much power. On March 31
he broached this dilemma to Hamilton, noting that his private letters “teemed”
with opinions about political reforms, “but how far any further essay by me might
be productive of the wished for end, or appear to arrogate more than belongs to
me, depends so much upon popular opinion and the temper and disposition of
[the] people that it is not easy to decide.”24 A major unresolved issue was whether
he should cast off the burdens of public life and return to private citizenship. Writing to Lafayette, he sounded as if he meant to retire permanently to Mount Vernon.
Echoing Hamlet, he stated that henceforth “my mind shall be unbent and I will
endeavor to glide down the stream of life ’till I come to that abyss from whence no
traveler is permitted to return.”25
In early June the sphinx issued a lengthy valedictory statement about the problems facing the newborn country. In this “Circular to State Governments,” Washington emerged emphatically from behind his pose of military neutrality and advised

Closing the Drama with Applause r! 4 43

the citizenry in an almost fatherly tone. This enduring document, also known as
“Washington’s Legacy,” codiﬁed his views no less memorably than his later farewell
address. Reprinted in newspapers and later excerpted in countless school textbooks,
it gained a wide readership. So that the circular wouldn’t smack of political ambition, Washington started out by reassuring readers that he was about to retire from
public life and “pass the remainder of life in a state of undisturbed repose.”26 This
pledge gave him license to publish his views: by denying any political ambition,
he could dispel charges of self-interest. Striking an oracular note, he envisioned
a vibrant future for America: “The citizens of America, placed in the most enviable condition, as the sole lords and proprietors of a vast tract of continent, comprehending all the various soils and climates of the world and abounding with all
the necessaries and conveniences of life, are now . . . acknowledged to be possessed
of absolute freedom and independency.” Heaven had vouchsafed to Americans “a
fairer opportunity for political happiness than any other nation has ever been favored with.”27 Locating events in the wider sweep of history, he saw the American
Revolution as favored by the Age of Enlightenment: “The foundation of our empire
was not laid in the gloomy age of ignorance and superstition, but at an epocha
when the rights of mankind were better understood and more clearly deﬁned than
at any former period.”28
It would have been easy for Washington to dwell on wartime accomplishments and bask in the sweet glow of victory. Instead, he pushed the agenda to the
challenges ahead, offering alternate visions of glory and ruin. Americans had to
choose whether they would be “respectable and prosperous or contemptible and
miserable as a nation.”29 Worried that a weak confederacy would tempt European
powers to play off one state against another, he called for “an indissoluble union
of the states under one federal head.”30 The war had scrubbed quixotic notions
from his mind. At a time when many Americans, inﬂuenced by Whig ideology,
equated centralized power with tyranny, Washington argued that only a supreme
central power could safeguard liberty. However tempting it might be to repudiate
the enormous government debt, he asserted the need to “render complete justice
to all the public creditors.”31 Instead of recommending a professional army for
the country, as he might have wished, Washington, making a concession to the
bête noire of a “standing army,” opted for a halfway measure: uniform standards
for state militias.
In closing, Washington referred to the character of Jesus, “the Divine author of
our blessed religion.”32 It was a ﬁtting ending: despite his paean to the Enlightenment, the entire circular had the pastoral tone of a spiritual father advising his ﬂock
rather than a bluff, manly soldier making a digniﬁed farewell. The ending rose to
the fervor of a benediction: “I now make it my earnest prayer that God would have

444

r! The Gener a l

you, and the state over which you preside, in his holy protection; that he would
incline the hearts of the citizens to cultivate a spirit of subordination and obedience
to government; to entertain a brotherly affection and love for one another, for their
fellow citizens of the United States at large, and particularly for their brethren who
have served in the ﬁeld.”33
With the war drawing to a close, Henry Knox spearheaded the formation of a
fraternal order of army ofﬁcers called the Society of the Cincinnati. Its aims seemed
laudable enough: to succor the families of needy ofﬁcers, to preserve the union
and liberties for which they had fought, and to maintain a social network among
the ofﬁcers. Its very name paid homage to George Washington: Lucius Quinctius
Cincinnatus was a Roman consul who had rescued Rome in war, then relinquished
power. Little dreaming how controversial the organization would become, Washington agreed to serve as president and was duly elected on June 19, 1783. Something
of an honorary president, he was fuzzy about his actual duties and asked Knox
that September to tell him “in precise terms what is expected from the President of
the Cincinnati previous to the general meeting in May next. As I never was present at any of your meetings and have never seen the proceedings of the last, I may,
for want of information . . . neglect some essential duty.”34 What Washington didn’t
foresee was that the hereditary character of the society—eldest sons could inherit
the memberships of deceased fathers—would engender fears that the society was
fomenting an embryonic American aristocracy.
Perhaps nothing signaled the war’s end so dramatically as the sudden resumption of correspondence between Washington and his friend George William Fairfax,
Sally’s husband, who had repeatedly sent Washington letters during the war only to
have them conﬁscated by the British government. One letter that made it through
in early July 1783 told how inﬂuential ﬁgures in England, who had once shunned
Fairfax as pro-American, now pestered him for letters of introduction to the American general. On July 10 Washington sent an affectionate reply, calling upon the
Fairfaxes to return to Virginia and become his neighbors once again: “Your house
at Belvoir, I am sorry to add, is no more, but mine (which is enlarged since you saw
it) is most sincerely and heartily at your service till you could rebuild it.”35 It says
much about Washington’s nostalgia for prewar life at Mount Vernon that he wished
to re-create the status quo ante in this fashion. He reported to Fairfax that Martha
had been in poor health, suffering from chronic liver and abdominal problems. All
in all, it was clear that any romance between George Washington and Sally Fairfax
had receded into ancient history and that he thought it safe to summon back that
ghost from his past.
In the interlude before the signing of the ﬁnal peace treaty, Washington toted
up his expenses from eight years in the army. The deal he had struck with Congress

Closing the Drama with Applause r! 4 45

back in 1775 stipulated that he would forgo a salary but would be compensated for
food, travel, entertaining, equipment, and other incidental expenses. Congress still
owed him money, starting with the uniform he had purchased for his original journey to Cambridge back in 1775. At ﬁrst he wavered about including Martha’s annual
travel expenses to the American camp, then decided to list them, since he would
otherwise have incurred the expense of round trips to Mount Vernon himself.
In his ﬁnal tally, Washington submitted a bill for 8,422 pounds for household expenses and another 1,982 pounds paid out of pocket for “secret intelligence.”36 Since
Congress trusted Washington wholeheartedly, he received every penny he listed.
He had kept scrupulous records of his spending, recorded in account books in his
own handwriting, and was bafﬂed when the total fell far short of his expectations.
“Through hurry, I suppose, and the perplexity of business (for I know not how else
to account for the deﬁciency),” he had “omitted to charge” many items.37
Another major project consuming Washington’s time was the preservation
of his wartime papers. Early in the war he had had aides cart his personal annals
from campsite to campsite, conserving them like sacred relics. Even before the war
ended, he had received queries from historians who wished to examine this archive,
and he hoped it would someday preserve his future fame. That June, to transport
his papers safely to Mount Vernon, he ordered six strong trunks, covered with hide
and “well clasped and with good locks,” each one bearing a brass or copper plate
with his name and the year on it. In August Richard Varick delivered to Washington
the twenty-eight volumes of correspondence that his team had transcribed over
two years. “I am fully convinced,” Washington told Varick, “that neither the present age or posterity will consider the time and labor which have been employed in
accomplishing it unproﬁtably spent.”38 Afraid of sending the bundled papers by
sea, Washington took inordinate pains to organize a wagon train laden with this
precious cargo, which he sent to Virginia accompanied by a full military escort.
Those transported papers, he knew, would prove the ﬁnal bulwark of his historical
reputation.
In the summer of 1783, as he awaited news of the deﬁnitive peace treaty, Washington found himself trapped in a strange limbo. About two-thirds of his army had
been sent home, enabling him to indulge thoughts of relaxation for the ﬁrst time
in eight years. Having always wanted to visit upstate New York, he now seized the
chance. Traveling by horseback and canoe, he covered 750 miles in a little more than
two weeks, showing he was still a hardy specimen. It was a measure of Washington’s
self-assurance that he wanted to visit the Saratoga battleﬁeld, the scene of Horatio Gates’s signal triumph. Reverting to prewar form, Washington even engaged in
some land speculation along the Mohawk River. Back at camp, Washington and his
ofﬁcers had so much extra time on their hands that they took turns stepping on a

4 46

r! The Gener a l

scale and recording their weight. For all the austerity of war, they weren’t a terribly
lean bunch: Washington weighed 209 pounds, Henry Knox a robust 280 pounds,
and eight of eleven ofﬁcers tipped the scale at more than 200 pounds.
In late August Congress summoned Washington to its temporary home in
Princeton, New Jersey. The legislature had temporarily been banished there after
mutinous troops from Lancaster, Pennsylvania, brandishing weapons, had stormed
into Philadelphia and demanded back pay. Washington brieﬂy postponed the trip
to Princeton because Martha was “exceedingly unwell” and he didn’t wish to leave
her behind.39 When they ﬁnally made the journey, they resided at a farmhouse in
Rocky Hill, a few miles outside Princeton, where Washington planned to stay until
the deﬁnitive peace treaty arrived.
This restful time for Washington peeled away layers of tension built up during
the stressful war years. One day he threw a dinner for Congress in a grand trophy
of the war, a capacious tent captured from the British, and his guests delighted in
his newfound calm. “The general’s front is uncommonly open and pleasant,” said
David Howell of Rhode Island. “The contracted, pensive phiz [face], betokening
deep thought and much care . . . is done away, and a pleasant smile and sparkling
vivacity of wit and humor succeeds.”40 This dinner afforded rare vignettes of Washington succumbing to a merry mood. When the president of Congress regretted
that Robert Morris had his hands full, Washington retorted, “I wish he had his
pockets full.”41
Congress needed to discuss with Washington military arrangements for the
postwar period. Doubtless with Yorktown in mind, when only the French possessed
the requisite skills for a siege, he endorsed the creation of a military academy to
train engineers as well as artillery ofﬁcers. Following up on his “Circular to State
Governments,” he outlined plans for a “national militia” made up of individual
state units guided by consistent national standards. And worried that the United
States would be vulnerable if it disarmed too quickly, he favored a peacetime army
of 2,631 men. Most of all, he approved the creation of a navy that could repel European intruders. Washington also sounded out Henry Knox on whether Knox might
take the post of secretary at war, showing that, despite his professions of retreating
from public life, Washington was still prepared to intervene directly in the country’s
future affairs.
During his stay at Rocky Hill, Washington learned that Thomas Paine was in the
neighborhood and invited him for a chat with a gracious note. Paine was a difﬁcult
man, even something of a malcontent, and although Congress had offered him a
job as ofﬁcial historian of the American Revolution, he preferred to chide it for
“continued neglect” of his services.42 Congress decided that individual states should
reward him instead, and Washington agreed to lobby friends in the Virginia legis-

Closing the Drama with Applause r! 4 47

lature on his behalf. “That his Common Sense and many of his Crisis [essays] were
well timed and had a happy effect upon the public mind, none, I believe . . . will
deny,” Washington wrote. “Does not common justice then point to some compensation?”43 Although Paine eventually received a large honorarium from Congress
and ample property from New York, he continued to nurse grievances about his
treatment and would later lash out at his erstwhile hero.

ch ap ter thirt y-sev en

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Cincinnatus

Th e pe ac e n e g o t i at ions i n Pa r is were hampered by an array of bafﬂing
issues, not the least of which was the contentious question of ﬁshing rights off the
Newfoundland coast. As John Adams recalled wearily, the sessions droned on in “a
constant scufﬂe morning, noon, and night about cod and haddock on the Grand
Bank, deerskins on the Ohio, and pine trees at Penobscot, and what were worse
than all the [Loyalist] refugees.”1 Although the ﬁnal treaty was signed on September 3, 1783, the news was delayed for two months by transatlantic travel, and Washington didn’t ﬁnd out indisputably that the war had ceased until November 1. To his
horror, Congress promptly adjourned without making adequate provision for the
peacetime army or overdue pay for his long-suffering men.
A virtuoso of farewell messages, Washington disseminated from Rocky Hill his
“Farewell Address to the Armies of the United States.” It was his fondest wish that
the same process that had welded men from various states into the Continental
Army would now form a model for the country: “Who that was not a witness could
imagine that the most violent local prejudices would cease so soon and that men
who came from the different parts of the continent . . . would instantly become but
one patriotic band of brothers.”2 In this affectionate valedictory, Washington reminisced about the high drama and dreamlike events of the war, telling his men that
what they had experienced together “was little short of a standing miracle” and that
such events had “seldom if ever before taken place on the stage of human action,
nor can they probably ever happen again.”3
After forwarding his baggage to Mount Vernon, Washington rejoined his remaining troops on the Hudson one last time. Martha Washington, who had a spe-

Cincinnatus r! 4 49

cial capacity to enter into whatever captivated her husband, had grown to love the
men as much as he did. By the end of the war, the woman who in 1775 had shuddered in fright at cannon blasts was enchanted by the sight of well-drilled units
and thrilled to the lilt of ﬁfes and drums. One postwar visitor to Mount Vernon, a
young Scot named Robert Hunter, heard an earful from Martha Washington about
the Continental Army’s crisp efﬁciency: “It’s astonishing with what raptures Mrs.
Washington spoke about the discipline of the army, the excellent order they were
in, superior to any troops, she said, upon the face of the earth towards the close of
the war.”4 She never forgot the “heavenly sight” of the troops in those closing weeks.
“Almost every soldier shed tears at parting with the general, when the army was
disbanded,” she told Hunter, calling it “a most melancholy sight.”5
That fall the mood in the camp was hardly all sweetness and light, as Washington had to contend with residual bitterness among his ofﬁcers. When Robert Morris couldn’t muster one month’s pay for departing ofﬁcers, they grew surly again.
Washington made a pitch to Morris for more money, even though federal coffers
were depleted. Morris promised to do what he could while admitting that “the
goodwill is all which I have in my power . . . I am constantly involved in scenes of
distress . . . and there is not any money in the treasury.”6 So furious were the ofﬁcers
over the absence of promised pay that they canceled a climactic dinner intended
as a parting tribute to their commander in chief. Washington ended the war still
smarting under the humiliation that he had had to beg for money for his men.
Although Washington was geared up to enter New York City in triumph the
moment the British departed, they kept postponing the promised day. On November 20, having moved down the Hudson River to the Harlem River, just north of
the city, he waited in the wings amid mounting suspense. To ensure the safety of
American spies in the city, Washington sent Benjamin Tallmadge on ahead to protect them against any reprisals as their identities became known. He received reports of “universal consternation” among departing Tories in New York, who were
frantic to get aboard ships before the remnants of the Continental Army marched
into town. Washington described these distraught refugees as “little better than a
medley of confused, enraged, and dejected people. Some are swearing, and some
crying, while the greater part of them are almost speechless.”7
On the cold morning of November 25, 1783, Washington and a small contingent
of eight hundred men tarried at a barrier north of the city, awaiting word of the
British departure. The day was so overcast and blustery that British ships in the harbor kept deferring their sailing. In one last vindictive gesture, the British greased the
ﬂagpole at Fort George in lower Manhattan, causing a delay before the American
ﬂag could be hoisted in its place. Then the cannon sounded thirteen times, signaling that Washington, astride his ﬁne gray horse, could lead the cavalcade down the

450

r! The Gener a l

Boston Post Road into the city. Always sensitive to political symbolism, he rode
beside Governor George Clinton of New York to show his deference to civilian authority and was also accompanied by the Westchester Light Dragoons, a sureﬁre
local crowd-pleaser. It was a boisterously elated procession of citizens and soldiers
that trooped into the liberated city, marching eight abreast, along streets lined with
wildly cheering citizens.
For one woman in the crowd, the contrast between the splendidly uniformed
British troops who had just left and the unkempt American troops in homespun
dress who now straggled in conveyed a telling message:
We had been accustomed for a long time to military display in all the ﬁnish and ﬁnery of garrison life; the troops just leaving us were as if equipped for show, and, with
their scarlet uniforms and burnished arms, made a brilliant display. The troops that
marched in, on the contrary, were ill-clad and weatherbeaten and made a forlorn appearance. But then they were our troops, and as I looked at them and thought upon
all they had done and suffered for us, my heart and my eyes were full and I admired
and gloried in them the more, because they were weatherbeaten and forlorn.8

For seven years, the British had ﬂattered themselves that only they could maintain order in this raucous city. In a self-congratulatory spirit, they had insisted that
anarchy would descend without them. But when one British ofﬁcer returned brieﬂy
from his ship to retrieve some forgotten personal items, he was struck dumb by the
law-abiding crowds. “This is a strange scene indeed!” he commented. “Here, in this
city, we have had an army for more than seven years, and yet could not keep the
peace of it . . . Now [that] we are gone, everything is in quietness and safety. The
Americans are a curious, original people. They know how to govern themselves, but
nobody else can govern them.”9
Casting his eyes beyond the jubilant onlookers, Washington could discern a
desolate city of empty lots, burned-out buildings, and churches despoiled of pews
to house British troops. Animals roamed the streets freely. The British surrendered
only ﬁve hundred American prisoners at the end, which attested both to the large
number already freed in exchanges and the appalling number who died in captivity.
Most had been kept aboard British prison ships anchored in the East River, where
they languished in infernal conditions. Stuffed in airless spaces belowdecks, they
had been wedged together in vermin-infested holds slick with human excrement
and forced to eat worm-infested rations or devour their own body lice. Typhus, dysentery, and scurvy were common scourges. For years afterward the bones of dead
prisoners washed up on East River shores. The American Revolution was never a
bloodless affair, as is sometimes imagined. Of 200,000 Americans who served in the

Cincinnatus r! 45 1

war, about 25,000 died, or approximately 1 percent of the population, making it the
bloodiest American war except for the Civil War.
During eight hectic days in New York, Washington’s calendar was crowded with
dinners, receptions, and ﬁreworks galore. Suddenly an avid consumer again, he
went shopping for teapots, coffee urns, and other silverware for entertaining guests
at Mount Vernon. Earlier that fall, when inquiring of his nephew Bushrod about
silverware purchases, he had asked “whether French plate is fashionable and much
used in genteel houses in France and England,” showing that the great American
liberator was still enslaved to European styles. On Saturday night, November 29,
a rare earthquake struck New York—three quick tremors rumbled through town
after midnight—and people started from their sleep, darting into the streets for
safety. Asleep at the former Queen’s Head Tavern, a three-story brick building at
the corner of Broad and Pearl streets better known to history as Fraunces Tavern,
Washington scarcely stirred: a man accustomed to the alarums of war wasn’t about
to be unsettled by the earth’s minor trembles.
On December 1 Sir Guy Carleton wrote to Washington that, if wind and weather
permitted, he hoped to remove the last of his troops from Long and Staten islands
and depart by December 4. Washington sent back such an exceedingly polite note
that he might have been saying goodbye to an affable weekend guest at Mount
Vernon: “I have received your favor [i.e., letter] of yesterday’s date, announcing the
time of your departure, and sincerely wish that your Excellency, with the troops
under your orders, may have a safe and pleasant passage.”10
When it came time for Washington to bid farewell to his ofﬁcers, Fraunces
Tavern seemed the ideal spot. The innkeeper, Samuel Fraunces, was a West Indian
called Black Sam; his nickname probably refers to a swarthy complexion rather
than African parentage. An excellent cook and a Freemason, Fraunces was partial
to wigs and fancy clothing and had a rather aristocratic air. A secret friend to the
American cause during the war, he had helped to relieve the agony of American
prisoners held in New York and also worked to thwart a plot to assassinate Washington. Congress would later repay him handsomely by housing government ofﬁces in Fraunces Tavern. Well aware of his heroism, Washington wrote to Fraunces
warmly that summer and thanked him for his “constant friendship and attention
to the cause of our country.”11
Shortly before noon on December 4, Washington assembled his men in the long
banquet room on the second ﬂoor of Fraunces Tavern. One tends to picture Washington on this occasion surrounded by a full complement of ofﬁcers, but those on
hand represented the sturdy, resilient band who had held out until the very end.
Only three major generals—Knox, Steuben, and McDougall—and one brigadier
general attended; a handful of lesser ofﬁcers rounded out the crowd of thirty or

452

r! The Gener a l

forty. When Washington strode into their midst in his familiar blue and buff uniform, they all rose in respect. He invited them to heap their plates with cold buffet
meats but was too overwrought to have much appetite himself. Amid what one
ofﬁcer described as “breathless silence,” glasses were handed around and ﬁlled with
wine.12 Raising his glass with a shaking hand, Washington began to speak, his voice
breaking with emotion: “With a heart ﬁlled with love and gratitude, I now take
leave of you. I most devoutly wish that your latter days may be as prosperous and
happy as your former ones have been glorious and honorable.”13
The ofﬁcers, moved, lifted their glasses and drank in silence. Tears welled up in
Washington’s eyes, as if he suddenly relived eight emotional years of sacriﬁce with
these battle-tested men and was pained at the thought of parting from them. “I cannot come to each of you,” he said tenderly, “but shall feel obliged if each of you will
come and take me by the hand.”14 The moment was legendary, not for any feat of
oratory, but for the simple heartfelt emotion palpable in Washington’s words.
The ﬁrst ofﬁcer to step forward was Henry Knox, a mere bookseller before
Washington had drawn him from obscurity and boosted him to chief of artillery.
Famous for his self-control and his reluctance to let people touch him, Washington not only shook hands with Knox but hugged and kissed him in silence while
tears streamed down their faces. Then Steuben, the fake baron whom Washington
had allowed to train troops at Valley Forge, stepped forward and was similarly embraced. All the ofﬁcers were “suffused in tears” as they surged forward for a ﬁnal
farewell kiss from Washington. As Benjamin Tallmadge wrote, “Such a scene of sorrow and weeping I had never before witnessed . . . The simple thought . . . that we
should see his face no more in this world seemed to me utterly insupportable.”15
The moment captured many of Washington’s ﬁnest qualities: his innate dignity and
laconic eloquence, his frank affection behind the impassive front, his instinctive
command of the theatrical gesture. He had a magisterial way of directing the major
scenes in his life. One senses that, as he struggled with deep feelings, he feared that
he would surrender control of his emotions if he said any more. No moment in his
life showcased his gift of silence to better effect.
After all the junior ofﬁcers had come forward to be clasped, Washington walked
across the room, lifted his arm in a stately gesture of farewell, and left without
looking back. The spell was hypnotic and the ofﬁcers shufﬂed out “in mournful silence,” according to Tallmadge.16 When Washington arrived at the Whitehall wharf
to board the ferry that would take him to New Jersey, a large crowd of citizens had
gathered for an emotional goodbye. Washington raised his three-cornered hat, and
his ofﬁcers and the throng waved their hats in response. Then he stepped into the
boat, and twenty-two oarsmen swung into motion, rowing him across the water
until he vanished from sight.

Cincinnatus r! 453

Washington’s destination was the State House in Annapolis, Maryland, where
an itinerant Congress had taken up residence after leaving Princeton (hoping that
with its theaters, balls, and other amusements, Annapolis might entice absentee
delegates to attend sessions). Once he resigned his commission as commander in
chief, Washington planned to return to Mount Vernon, vowing to Martha that he
would join her for Christmas dinner. Having slept in 280 houses during the war, he
must have had a special craving for the banal comforts of home. It took him four
days to reach Philadelphia, and even as he mused about returning to private life,
the trip showed how profoundly his life had changed. He had surrendered all right
to privacy. Wherever he went, he was draped with honors and became a captive of
the invariable crowds. A stream of letters trailed him, entreating his aid in securing
employment or other favors. All the while he had the burden of having to act like a
model citizen and was allowed no normal moods or imperfections.
The extraordinary hero worship Washington inspired can be vividly seen in the
correspondence of Gerard Vogels, a Dutch businessman in Philadelphia. Writing to
his wife of the commander’s arrival in Philadelphia, Vogels made it sound as if the
Messiah had stepped down from the heavens: “I saw the greatest man who has ever
appeared on the surface of this earth. His Excellency arrived at 6 o’clock escorted by
light cavalry . . . We all waved our hats three times over our heads. Then came the
excellent Hero himself, riding an uncommonly beautiful horse . . . I don’t know if,
in our delight at seeing the Hero, we were more surprised by his simple but grand
air or by the kindness of the greatest and best of heroes.”17
Happily or not, Washington seemed resigned to being a form of public property.
“His Excellency promises to walk daily through the town to give the grateful Americans the pleasure of seeing him,” Vogels informed his wife. “Then he says farewell
to all honors and the world’s turmoil to live quietly in retirement on his estate.”18
At receptions Washington must have wondered whether he was the honored guest
or a prisoner. All the turgid toasts in his praise drew forth from him equally stilted
replies, as he took refuge in safe platitudes. Evidently there were limits to how much
reverence the Hero could endure. He had always seemed uncomfortable with compliments. He left one concert as the chorus was about to sing a hymn in his honor,
set to music by Handel. Vogels, who was in the audience, commented afterward,
“Evidently His Excellency is above hearing his praise sung and retires before the
just acclamations of his people.”19 He noted how Washington’s presence acted as an
aphrodisiac on the panting ladies: “It was amusing to see how, in a place so crowded
with the fair sex, everybody had eyes only for this Hero. Indeed, we only now and
then stole a glance at our girls. His Excellency drew everyone’s attention.”20
Before Washington arrived, the Pennsylvania assembly had ordered construction of a triumphal wooden arch in the classical style; suspended in the center was

45 4

r! The Gener a l

an enormous transparency of Cincinnatus, returning to his plow, his brow crowned
with laurels. In case anyone was dim-witted enough to miss the allusion, the legislature said the “countenance of Cincinnatus is [to be] a striking resemblance of General Washington.”21 The portrait commission went to Charles Willson Peale, and
Washington more or less good-humoredly submitted to a session under his studio
skylight. Washington left a whimsical image of his cooperation, telling one correspondent that “no dray moves more readily to the thill than I do to the painter’s
chair”—that is, no workhorse was more readily harnessed to the shafts of a wagon
than himself.22 Peale exchanged letters about Washington with Benjamin West, the
great expatriate painter in London, who had risen to become court history painter
to George III. One day the king asked West whether Washington would be head of
the army or head of state when the war ended. When West replied that Washington’s sole ambition was to return to his estate, the thunderstruck king declared, “If
he does that, he will be the greatest man in the world.”23
Before Peale had ﬁnished the portrait, Washington decided to quit town; he
left Philadelphia on December 15 with a diminished retinue. As he slowly shed the
trappings of power, he retained only two aides, David Humphreys and Benjamin
Walker, and a team of slaves. For a short stretch of the journey, one of his companions was John Dickinson, Pennsylvania’s chief executive, who anticipated a problem
that was to harry Washington in his postwar incarnation. Washington had negotiated neither a pension nor an expense account to entertain the hordes poised to
descend upon Mount Vernon. Dickinson had privately warned Congress that “the
admiration and esteem of the world may make [Washington’s] life in a very considerable degree public, as numbers will be desirous of seeing the great and good
man . . . His very services to his country may therefore subject him to improper
expenses unless he permits her gratitude to interpose.”24 Congress failed to take action, and it would prove a serious omission in the coming years as the pilgrims to
Mount Vernon imposed gigantic expenses.
On December 19 Washington approached the outskirts of Annapolis and was
greeted by a delegation of dignitaries that included Horatio Gates. Both men must
have been struck by the totality of Washington’s triumph and Gates’s demotion.
Accompanied to George Mann’s Tavern, Washington arrived to thirteen blasts of
cannon ﬁre, a cliché of which Washington surely tired. The next day he submitted
a letter to Thomas Mifﬂin, his former aide and disloyal critic during the Conway
affair and now president of Congress, asking whether he should submit his resignation in writing or in a public ceremony. Washington wanted to do everything in his
power to dramatize his humility before civilian power. Congress decided that, after
being feted with a magniﬁcent dinner on December 22, he would return his commission before that body at noon the next day.

Cincinnatus r! 455

Several hundred people attended the celebratory dinner, which exuded a mood
of uproarious good spirits. “The number of cheerful voices, with the clangor of
knives and forks, made a din of a very extraordinary nature and most delightful
inﬂuence,” James Tilton wrote.25 After suffering through the obligatory thirteen
toasts, Washington made a toast with a pertinent point: “Competent powers to
Congress for general purposes.”26 The toast suggested that Washington’s mind still
fretted over the inadequate Articles of Confederation and that his postwar retirement might be short-lived. The message, in many ways, foretold the rest of his
political life. After the dinner Washington attended a brilliantly lit ball, dancing ﬁrst
with twenty-two-year-old Martha Rolle Maccubin, a prominent local belle. With
women fawning all over him—the fashionable style dictated thirteen curls tumbling down the neck—Washington never left the dance ﬂoor and must have grown
slightly giddy from the adulation. “The general danced every set, that the ladies
might have the pleasure of dancing with him, or, as it has since been handsomely
expressed, get a touch of him,” reported Tilton.27
The next morning Washington squeezed in a last personal letter to Baron von
Steuben. Among other things, he reassured Steuben that the country would reward
his inestimable service during the war. The quiet fervor of this letter says something about the enduring tie uniting the two men. “I wish to make use of this last
moment of my public life to signify in the strongest terms my entire approbation
of your conduct,” Washington wrote. “. . . This is the last letter I shall ever write
while I continue in the service of my country. The hour of my resignation is ﬁxed
at twelve this day; after which I shall become a private citizen on the banks of the
Potomac, where I shall be glad to embrace you and to testify [to] the great esteem
and consideration” in which he held him.28
Washington’s resignation was a minutely prepared affair, designed to show a
doubting world that this new republic would not degenerate into disorder. Shortly
before noon he arrived at the State House, wearing his familiar uniform for the
last time. He was greeted by Charles Thomson, the secretary of Congress, who led
him to a seat on the dais, where he was ﬂanked by David Humphreys and Benjamin Walker. In the audience was a sparse contingent of legislators, only twenty
representatives, who sat with their hats on. This was no sign of disrespect but an
antimonarchical gesture: in European kingdoms, commoners always stood in the
presence of royalty and doffed their hats. Then the doors opened, and the leading
Maryland politicians and town gentry poured into the hall, with men crowding
into seats downstairs and bright-eyed ladies packing the galleries. Everyone pressed
into the hall to sneak a peek at this historic transaction.
As the audience sat in rapt silence, Thomas Mifﬂin rose. “Sir,” he intoned, “the
United States in Congress assembled are prepared to receive your communica-

45 6

r! The Gener a l

tions.”29 Following a precise script, Washington rose and bowed to the congressmen,
who removed their hats out of respect and then returned them. As Washington
spoke, he held the speech in his right hand, which began to shake so violently that
he had to steady it with his left.
In a voice hoarse with emotion, he recalled his feelings of inadequacy when ﬁrst
appointed commander in chief and stated that he had been sustained only “by a
conﬁdence in the rectitude of our cause, the support of the supreme power of the
union, and the patronage of heaven.”30 He paid tribute to the men who had served
with him and gently urged Congress to take care of them, reminding them of the
troops sent home unpaid. It was at this point that he had to grasp the speech with
two trembling hands. When he recommended “our dearest country to the protection of Almighty God,” said James McHenry, Washington’s voice “faltered and sank
and the whole house felt his agitations.”31 After a pause he regained his composure
and closed on a poetic note, hinting at his permanent withdrawal: “Having now
ﬁnished the work assigned me, I retire from the great theater of action; and bidding
an affectionate farewell to this august body under whose orders I have so long acted,
I here offer my commission and take my leave of all the employments of public
life.”32 Then, drawing the original parchment commission from his coat, he handed
it to Thomas Mifﬂin along with a folded copy of his speech. The emotional impact
was overpowering. “The General was so much affected himself that everybody felt
for him,” commented a woman named Mary Ridout, who said that “many tears
were shed.”33
In digniﬁed fashion, Thomas Mifﬂin gave a prepared response that had been
drafted by Thomas Jefferson, then a delegate from Virginia, who was also swept
up in the Washington worship and fully understood the unprecedented nature of
Washington’s surrender of power. As Jefferson later wrote to Washington, “The
moderation and virtue of a single character . . . probably prevented this revolution
from being closed, as most others have been, by a subversion of that liberty it was
intended to establish.”34 In the speech, Mifﬂin cited the peerless way Washington
had “conducted the great military conﬂict with wisdom and fortitude, invariably
regarding the rights of the civil powers.”35
After Mifﬂin’s speech, there came more formal bowing, and Washington prepared to leave. He shook hands and bade farewell individually to each member of
Congress, thus ending his years of military service. Before the speech he had packed
his bags and checked out of George Mann’s Tavern, so that his horse and attendants
awaited him at the State House door, enabling him to make a quick escape. He
mounted his horse and rode off in a hush. “It was a solemn and affecting spectacle,
such a one as history does not present,” said McHenry. “The spectators all wept and
there was hardly a member of Congress who did not drop tears.”36 A small delega-

Cincinnatus r! 457

tion escorted Washington to the nearby South River ferry. Then he was ﬁnally alone
on horseback with his two aides and servants, heading for Mount Vernon.
The ﬁgure hurrying back to his long-forgotten past had just accomplished
something more extraordinary than any military feat during the war. At war’s end,
he stood alone at the pinnacle of power, but he never became drunk with that inﬂuence, as had so many generals before him, and treated his commission as a public
trust to be returned as soon as possible to the people’s representatives. Throughout
history victorious generals had sought to parlay their fame into political power,
whereas Washington had only a craving for privacy. Instead of glorying in his
might, he feared its terrible weight and potential misuse. He had long lived in the
shadow of the historical analogy to the Roman patriot Cincinnatus, and now, with
his resignation at Annapolis, that analogy was complete. When John Trumbull later
painted a series of portraits for the U.S. Capitol, he chose Washington’s resignation
at Annapolis as one of the crowning moments of the founding era and the highest proof of Washington’s virtue. At the time of the resignation, Trumbull was in
London and recorded European wonderment at the news, saying that it “excites the
astonishment and admiration of this part of the world.”37
Washington had served as commander in chief for eight and a half years, the
equivalent of two presidential terms. His military triumphs had been neither frequent nor epic in scale. He had lost more battles than he had won, had botched
several through strategic blunders, and had won at Yorktown only with the indispensable aid of the French Army and ﬂeet. But he was a different kind of general
ﬁghting a different kind of war, and his military prowess cannot be judged by the
usual scorecard of battles won and lost. His fortitude in keeping the impoverished
Continental Army intact was a major historic accomplishment. It always stood on
the brink of dissolution, and Washington was the one ﬁgure who kept it together,
the spiritual and managerial genius of the whole enterprise: he had been resilient
in the face of every setback, courageous in the face of every danger. He was that
rare general who was great between battles and not just during them. The constant
turnover of his army meant that he continually had to start from scratch in training
his men. He had to blend troops from different states into a functioning national
force, despite deep ideological fears of a standing army. And before the French alliance, he had lacked the sea power that was all-important in defeating the British.
Seldom in history has a general been handicapped by such constantly crippling conditions. There was scarcely a time during the war when Washington didn’t
grapple with a crisis that threatened to disband the army and abort the Revolution.
The extraordinary, wearisome, nerve-racking frustration he put up with for nearly
nine years is hard to express. He repeatedly had to exhort Congress and the thirteen
states to remedy desperate shortages of men, shoes, shirts, blankets, and gunpow-

45 8

r! The Gener a l

der. This meant dealing with selﬁsh, apathetic states and bureaucratic incompetence in Congress. He labored under a terrible strain that would have destroyed a
lesser man. Ennobled by adversity and leading by example, he had been dismayed
and depressed but never defeated. The cheerless atmosphere at Valley Forge was
much more the rule than the exception during the war. Few people with any choice
in the matter would have persisted in this impossible, self-sacriﬁcing situation for
so long. Washington’s job as commander in chief was as much a political as a military task, and he performed it brilliantly, functioning as de facto president of the
country. His stewardship of the army had been a masterly exercise in nation building. In deﬁning the culture of the Continental Army, he had helped to mold the
very character of the country, preventing the Revolution from taking a bloodthirsty
or despotic turn. In the end, he had managed to foil the best professional generals
that a chastened Great Britain could throw at him. As Benjamin Franklin told an
English friend after the war, “An American planter was chosen by us to command
our troops and continued during the whole war. This man sent home to you, one
after another, ﬁve of your best generals, bafﬂed, their heads bare of laurels, disgraced even in the opinion of their employers.”38

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
pa r t f ou r

The Statesman

Bust of George Washington by Jean-Antoine Houdon,
sculpted in 1785.

ch ap ter thirt y-eight

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

American Celebrity

Wi t h pe r f e c t t i m i ng, George Washington made it home to the loving
embrace of his family on Christmas Eve. His return to Mount Vernon made him
acutely aware of the enormous distance he had traveled since he left for the Second
Continental Congress in May 1775. In writing to Lafayette, he noted time’s steady
passage, observing that he had “entered these doors an older man by nine years
than when I left them.”1 He indeed cut a very different ﬁgure from the tentative,
uncertain arriviste of the prewar years. Secure in himself and his place in history,
he little resembled that edgily combative young man who never missed a chance for
self-advancement. That bumptious, sharp-elbowed character would emerge again
sporadically in business dealings but would now coexist uneasily with a far more
mature self.
A heavy snowfall soon cast a hush over Mount Vernon—it was a winter of historic coldness—so that Washington discovered himself “fast locked up in frost and
snow” and sequestered at home by icy gusts and impassable roads.2 Only his wartime trophies, including the banners of captured ﬂags that decorated the downstairs
walls, evoked his extraordinary exploits. This isolation must have been sweetly congenial to Washington after the toilsome years of battle and the attendant lack of
privacy. Ever the dutiful if exasperated son, he planned to visit his mother, but bad
weather intervened, forcing him to defer the trip and enabling him to savor an
unaccustomed solitude.
As he gazed back over the hazardous odyssey he had survived, he wondered at
his own unaccountable preservation, telling Henry Knox, “I feel now, however, as I
conceive a wearied traveler must do who, after treading many a painful step, with

462

r! The Statesm a n

a heavy burden on his shoulders, is eased of the latter, having reached the goal . . .
and from his housetop is looking back and tracing with a grateful eye the meanders
by which he escaped the quicksands and mires which lay in his way and into which
none but the all-powerful guide and great disposer of human events could have
prevented his falling.”3 This hardheaded, practical man increasingly struck a reﬂective tone, experience having forced him to ponder the world more deeply.
Long burdened by wartime correspondence, Washington took a vacation from
letter writing for several blissful days. It took a while to break his military habit of
waking early and revolving in his overcrowded mind the day’s manifold duties. He
kept realizing, with a start, that he “was no longer a public man or had anything to
do with public transactions.”4 On December 28 he composed his ﬁrst letter from
home, proclaiming to New York governor George Clinton, “I am now a private
citizen on the banks of the Potomac . . . I feel myself eased of a load of public care.
I hope to spend the remainder of my days in cultivating the affections of good
men and in the practice of the domestic virtues.”5 These early postwar letters emit
an elegiac whiff, as if Washington thought his best days now lay behind him, and
he dwelt inordinately on his own mortality. Sounding more like a sage than an aging warrior, he portrayed himself, in Old Testament language, as sitting “under the
shadow of my own vine and my own ﬁg tree, free from the bustle of a camp,” as he
told Lafayette. “Envious of none, I am determined to be pleased with all, and this,
my dear friend, being the order for my march, I will move gently down the stream
of life until I sleep with my fathers.”6
For more than a month Washington postponed the trip to his mother due to
inclement weather. When he at last set out for Fredericksburg in February 1784, he
allotted a full week to his sojourn, which soon became enlarged into a state visit.
The Virginia Gazette hailed his arrival in town “on a visit to his ancient and amiable
parent.”7 Washington could not avoid a public dinner and elegant ball in his honor,
capped by a twenty-one-gun salute from local artillery. As best we can tell, Mary
Washington skipped these festivities, but her son voiced the obligatory pieties to
town dignitaries, touting Fredericksburg as “the place of my growing infancy” and
expressing pleasure at “the honorable mention which is made of my revered mother,
by whose maternal hand (early deprived of a father) I was led to manhood.”8
Try though he might, Washington couldn’t completely extricate his thoughts
from politics and feared that the still immature country would blunder into errors
before arriving at true wisdom. As he afﬁrmed, “all things will come right at last.
But, like a young heir come a little prematurely to a large inheritance, we shall wanton and run riot until we have brought our reputation to the brink of ruin.” Only
when a crisis materialized would the country be “compelled perhaps to do what
prudence and common policy pointed out as plain as any problem in Euclid in the

American Celebrity r! 463

ﬁrst instance.”9 This statement tallied with Washington’s often expressed view that
citizens had to feel before they saw—that is, they couldn’t react to abstract problems, only to tangible ones. The long ﬁght against British tyranny, paradoxically,
only strengthened his view that the foremost political danger came not from an
overly powerful central government but from an enfeebled one—“a half-starved,
limping government that appears to be always moving upon crutches and tottering
at every step.”10
The snowbound house was enlivened by young people. The Washingtons ran
something akin to a small orphanage, and the general must have ﬂed sometimes
from the rambunctious shouts of skylarking children to the silence of his study.
As we recall, after Jacky’s death, George and Martha had taken in his two youngest
children, Nelly, now four, and Washy, now two. Although the situation was never
formalized, Washington referred to them as his “adopted” children. Martha seemed
to transfer her affections intact from Patsy and Jacky to Nelly and Washy, including
her propensity to spoil the boy and anguish over his health. “My pretty little dear
boy complains of a pain in his stomach,” Martha wrote in one letter. “. . . I cannot
say but it makes me miserable if ever he complains, let the cause be ever so triﬂing . . .
I hope the almighty will spare him to me.”11 She couldn’t conceive of a happy home
devoid of children. “My little family are all with me,” she exulted to a friend, declaring that, without them, “I almost despair of ever enjoying happiness.”12
This second set of children seemed far happier than the epileptic Patsy and the
feckless Jacky, and family life at Mount Vernon was less troubled than before. When
Robert Edge Pine painted the children, he captured their contrasting natures. A
sprightly girl, clever and sociable, Nelly stares out boldly, even impudently, at the
viewer. Washy has a soft mop of well-brushed hair that falls over his forehead, and
he seems gentle, almost feminine, his thoughts trailing far away. When Washington
hired tutors for them, he sounded far more tolerant and relaxed than he had been
with Jacky and Patsy, saying their education would “be mere amusement, because it
is not my wish that the children should be conﬁned.”13 Though much loved, Washington was sometimes a grandly remote ﬁgure to these two stepchildren. “He was
a silent thoughtful man,” Nelly said years later. “He spoke little generally, never of
himself. I never heard him relate a single act of his life during the war.”14
The Washingtons agreed to provide guidance or ﬁnancial support for an amazing assortment of nieces and nephews. As noted earlier, after her sister, Anna Maria
Dandridge Bassett, died early in the war, Martha pledged to raise her charming
daughter Frances, or “Fanny,” who was now a teenager and had moved permanently
to Mount Vernon. In a Robert Edge Pine portrait, Fanny has pretty features, big
deep-set eyes, a rosebud mouth, and long wavy hair that falls across her shoulder
and slightly exposed bosom. Martha adored Fanny and let her function as an

464

r! The Statesm a n

assistant plantation hostess. “She is a child to me,” she later wrote, “and I am very
lonesome when she is absent.”15 Washington also delighted in Fanny’s “easy and
quiet temper.”16 In fact, the girl with her cheerful, winning personality was universally popular. “There was something so pleasing in her appearance and manner that
even a stranger could not see her without being interested in her welfare” was one
visitor’s impression.17
The bulging household incorporated other young relatives. George Augustine
Washington, the son of Washington’s hard-drinking brother Charles, had been an
aide to Lafayette during the war and was already plagued by a lingering bout of
tuberculosis that would only worsen with the years. Washington was also saddled
temporarily with three children from his late brother Samuel, who had been married ﬁve times and died heavily in debt. “In God’s name,” Washington had wondered to brother Jack earlier in the year, “how did my broth[e]r Sam[ue]l contrive
to get himself so enormously in debt?”18 Samuel’s three children by his fourth
marriage—Harriot, Lawrence Augustine, and George Steptoe Washington—ranged
in age from eight to eleven and had been left indigent. All three presented special
challenges. Harriot, an awkward, slovenly young girl, found herself trapped in a
household of manic perfectionists. Starting in 1784 and for the next eight years,
Washington footed the bill to educate her two brothers at a Georgetown academy,
but they were wild and uncontrollable and a constant trial to Washington, who was
extremely generous with young relatives but quite exacting if they failed to measure
up to his high standards.
By war’s end, Martha Washington was round and matronly in face and form,
a fact recorded by one visitor: “Mrs. Washington is an elegant ﬁgure for a person
of her years . . . She is rather ﬂeshy, of good complexion, has a large, portly double
chin, and an open and engaging countenance.”19 Although her hair was now gray,
she still had smooth, unlined skin, and her eyes were warm and bright. She was fond
of wearing sheer fabrics in light pastel colors that comfortably ﬁt her full ﬁgure. By
her own description, Martha was never either sick or well but hovered somewhere
in between. Perhaps because she was short, she believed in a proud, erect posture
and bought stiff collars for Nelly to encourage her upright carriage. The travelweary Martha was slow to admit that her marital life had now changed forever: her
husband could surrender his commission but not his fame. Later on, in a wistful
mood, she would recollect to Mercy Warren that when her husband returned from
the war that Christmas, she had little thought “that any circumstance could possibly happen to call the general into public life again” and that she “anticipated that
from that moment they should have grown old together in solitude and tranquillity. This, my dear madam, was the ﬁrst and fondest wish of my heart.”20 Whatever
ambitions she might have harbored for her husband’s career had long since been

American Celebrity r! 465

gratiﬁed, and she never dreamed that the curtain would soon rise again on a vast
and thrilling new pageant in their lives.
Whatever the strains of returning to private life, the period between the war and
his presidency was a halcyon time for Washington, who laid aside the gigantic labors
of nation building. Those who had seen him amid the tumult of war were struck by
his happy metamorphosis back into a private citizen. Although he fondly invoked
the “rural amusements” of his country cottage, such pastoral imagery didn’t quite
square with the desperate economic plight he faced upon his homecoming.21 As he
devoted every morning to business matters, the scenes of bucolic harmony he had
envisioned while in uniform faded from the hard collision with reality. For nine
years Mount Vernon had suffered terrible neglect, thinning his fortune. “I made
no money from my estate during the nine years I was absent from it and brought
none home with me,” he told his nephew Fielding Lewis, Jr.22 Great Britain exacted
a high price from American farmers after the war by shutting West Indian markets
that had once been open to the colonists. To further his economic woes, Washington’s debtors paid him in depreciated wartime currency, making it difﬁcult for him
to satisfy his own creditors. While France yearned to welcome the American hero,
Washington told Lafayette that his straitened circumstances precluded an Atlantic
crossing and might “put it forever out of my power to gratify this wish.”23
If Washington thought he could repair his affairs quickly, he was soon disabused, and more than a year after returning to Mount Vernon, he told Henry Knox
despondently that his business affairs “can no longer be neglected without involving my ruin.”24 He had frequently reassured his estate steward, Lund Washington, of
his conﬁdence in leaving his wartime business in his hands. Nevertheless, as the war
drew to a close, he berated Lund for failing to provide adequate ﬁnancial statements
and accused him of keeping him ignorant since Valley Forge. From brother Jack,
Washington learned that his frontier tenants had fallen years behind in their rent,
and he pleaded with Lund to travel west and collect the overdue money, accusing
him of “an unconquerable aversion to going from home.”25 Unknown to Washington as he issued these intemperate charges, Lund had forgone his steward’s salary
since the Valley Forge period. When he discovered it, Washington was mortiﬁed but
had no immediate way of making up the shortfall.
In 1785, beset by growing ﬁnancial troubles, Washington began to edge Lund
aside and took over daily supervision of the ﬁve farms—Muddy Hole, Dogue Run,
River, Union, and Mansion House—that constituted Mount Vernon, which had
burgeoned to seven thousand acres. Now in his early ﬁfties, Washington no longer had time to stay on top of his far-ﬂung operations. When Lund stepped down
as manager after twenty-one years, he was replaced by Washington’s nephew-inresidence, the sickly George Augustine Washington. Although Washington lacked

466

r! The Statesm a n

the time to make the daily rounds, he didn’t wish to relinquish all control of plantation life and instituted a detailed system of weekly reports from each farm. As
he told the departing Lund, “I am resolved that an account of the stock and every
occurrence that happens in the course of the week shall be minutely detailed to me
every Saturday.”26 There never seemed to be enough detail to satisfy his insatiable
appetite for information.
Even as his ﬁnances suffered from his long enforced absence, Washington
needed to keep up a show of prosperity and entertain the stream of visitors, friends
and strangers alike, who descended upon the shrine of Mount Vernon. He was
never able to enjoy fully the respite from national duty that he had so richly earned.
He didn’t cultivate adulation so much as endure it and played the ﬁfty-two-yearold smiling public man. Toward the war’s end he had begun bracing for the rigors
of receiving visitors on a lavish scale. After the British evacuation of New York, he
tried to hire a cook who could whip up a proper dinner for thirty guests at a time.
Reverting to the man of fashion, he asked Lafayette to send him French silver salvers
that could hold up to twelve glasses; where possible, he still attempted to boycott
British goods. He retained his old aristocratic habits, having his arms engraved on
new silverware, and he didn’t see any contradiction between such behavior and the
war he had just waged against British nobility.
In eighteenth-century Virginia, where roadside taverns were sparse and travelers could easily be stranded in transit, feeding and lodging travelers who showed
up unannounced at one’s doorstep were considered necessary marks of hospitality.
The polite Washington was victimized by this tradition as veterans and curiosity
seekers descended on his home in massive numbers. Much of the mystique later attached to the White House ﬁrst crystallized around Mount Vernon, which became
a sort of proto–presidential mansion. Except for Ben Franklin in Paris, Washington
was the ﬁrst American celebrity, and he only partially succeeded at shielding himself from supplicants. Strangers arrived intent upon seeing Washington, who had
to ﬁgure out ways to bar their prying eyes. He often greeted people at the door, only
to hand them off to slaves, then disappeared into his study or rode off to his farms.
“Even friends who make a point of visiting him are left much to themselves, indeed
scarcely see him from breakfast to dinner, unless he engages them in a ride, which is
very agreeable to him,” said a visitor named Elizabeth Ambler Carrington.27 Sometimes, like a dutiful innkeeper, Washington showed up in the room of a sick guest,
proffering a hot cup of tea and showing his basic decency.
He never resolved the problem of the tremendous expenses he incurred in taking care of visitors. Not only did guests devour his food, but their horses freely ate
his forage. “My situation is very little understood by most people,” he explained in
later life. “Whatever may be my property, the income of it is inadequate to my ex-

American Celebrity r! 46 7

penses. Not from any wish or desire I have to live extravagantly, but from unavoidable necessity proceeding from the public walks of life in which I have been and
the acquaintances made thereby, which ﬁll my house continually with company.”28
At a typical dinner, half the people might be guests. “There is not one single ofﬁcer
on the whole continent who will forsake the pleasure of spending a few days with
his General,” said Philip Mazzei, Jefferson’s Florentine-born friend. “. . . The result
is that his house is continuously ﬁlled with strangers who bring with them an even
larger number of servants and horses. As there is no village in the vicinity and no
inn within reach, the General has to take charge of everything.”29
As legions of hopeful tourists made a pilgrimage to this mecca, George and
Martha Washington struggled to retain some modicum of privacy. Sometimes they
behaved like inmates held hostage by an overﬂowing wave of visitors, condemned
to make small talk with complete strangers. One of the sadder lines in Washington’s
copious papers occurs in his diary entry for June 30, 1785, where he notes that he
“dined with only Mrs. Washington, which I believe is the ﬁrst instance of it since my
retirement from public life.”30 One can almost hear the sigh of relief. Washington
admitted to Franklin that “retirement from the public walks of life has not been
so productive of the leisure and ease as might have been expected.”31 Benjamin
Franklin scarcely needed a lesson. “Celebrity may for a while ﬂatter one’s vanity,” he
wrote, “but its effects are troublesome.”32
The nation wouldn’t let Washington enjoy the ease of a private citizen, and he
had to learn to manage his celebrity. One unspoken trick he used to deter unwanted
visitors was to post inadequate signs indicating the way to his house, erecting a natural barrier against intruders. The nine-mile ride between Alexandria and Mount
Vernon confounded travelers, forcing them to traverse bogs, thick woods, and
winding trails; the visitor ﬁles at Mount Vernon abound with comic tales of travelers getting hopelessly lost in this trackless maze. Although Washington weeded out
guests by asking for letters of introduction, he was too civil to turn people away
even if they lacked referrals. When a French ofﬁcer showed up for dinner without
papers, Washington confessed in his diary that “I was at a loss how to receive or
treat him.” Then he added: “He stayed [for] dinner and the evening.”33 One stranger
who arrived in Washington’s absence was astounded by his courteous treatment:
“Immediately on our arrival, every care was taken of our horses, beds were prepared, and an excellent supper provided for us.”34
The visitors’ accounts during these years give many candid glimpses of Washington. Their impressions vary dramatically, suggesting that he reacted quite differently to people—so much so that, at times, he scarcely seemed the same person. He
could be merry and convivial or, if he didn’t care for the guests, silent and morose.
This mutable personality, reﬂecting his shifting levels of trust in his listeners, has

468

r! The Statesm a n

made it hard for historians to form a coherent sense of his personality. Seldom
quotable in person, Washington could never be surprised into confessional statements. But if few visitors came away with treasured table talk, he made his presence
powerfully felt.
A young Scottish visitor, Robert Hunter, left this portrait of Washington’s venerable appearance: “The General is about six foot high, perfectly straight and well
made, rather inclined to be lusty. His eyes are full and blue and seem to express an
air of gravity.”35 He picked up Washington’s fastidious regard for appearance. When
they ﬁrst met, the general “was neatly dressed in a plain blue coat, white cashmere
waistcoat, and black breeches and boots, as he came from his farm.”36 Washington
left him brieﬂy with Martha and Fanny, shed his work clothes, then reappeared in
more fashionable garb, “with his hair neatly powdered, a clean shirt on, a new plain
drab coat, white waistcoat, and white silk stockings.”37 Hunter conjured up a Washington who seemed relaxed after the great labors of war, a man still healthy and vital
who could be elegant in the drawing room and energetic in the ﬁeld. He noted that
Washington was talkative with intimates, but that, cherishing his privacy, he was far
more guarded and laconic with people he distrusted.
Hunter recorded the clockwork regularity of Washington’s days as the latter followed a farmer’s routine of going to bed at nine, then rising with the sun. Mornings
he devoted to the masses of mail that swamped him. “It’s astonishing the packets
of letters that daily come for him from all parts of the world,” noted Hunter.38 With
evident pride, Washington showed him the vast archive of wartime letters he had
transcribed for posterity: “There are thirty large folio volumes of them upstairs, as
big as common ledgers, all neatly copied.”39 Hunter discovered that his study, with
a thousand books shelved behind glass, was the inner sanctum to which he denied
admittance to strangers. As Washington gave him a tour of his extensive ﬁelds and
gardens, Hunter reported that his “greatest pride is now to be thought the ﬁrst
farmer in America.”40 Far from being an aloof boss, Washington often dismounted
from his horse to work alongside slaves and indentured servants, especially to ensure that construction matched his speciﬁcations: “It’s astonishing with what niceness he directs everything in the building way, condescending even to measure the
things himself, that all may be perfectly uniform.”41
While Washington opened up in Hunter’s company, he clammed up with others.
If he didn’t like someone, he would be correct but never warm. As one European
visitor observed, “There seemed to me to skulk somewhat of a repulsive coldness,
not congenial with my mind, under a courteous demeanor.”42 One Dutchman also
came away disgusted: “I could never be on familiar terms with the General—a
man so cold, so cautious, so obsequious.”43 It did not occur to these tourists that
Washington felt burdened by uninvited visitors gaping at him, particularly since he

American Celebrity r! 46 9

wasn’t a backslapping soul who feigned friendship with total strangers. His modesty disappointed those who expected him to narrate the wartime drama especially
for them. “He announces a profound discretion and a great difﬁdence in himself,”
said the French journalist Brissot de Warville. “. . . His modesty is astonishing to
a Frenchman; he speaks of the American war and of his victories as of things in
which he had no direction.”44 Of course, the many volumes of letters upstairs
underscored Washington’s sense of his own overwhelming importance in the war,
but he preferred to let his deeds speak for themselves.
Sharp-eyed visitors noted how Martha Washington, in her cheerful, selfeffacing way, facilitated social interactions, making her husband’s life easier. “As to
his lady, she appears to me to be a plain, good woman, very much resembling the
character of Lady Bountiful,” wrote Captain John Enys. She “is very cheerful and
seems most happy when contributing towards the happiness of others.”45 Neither
plain nor showy, she occupied a congenial middle ground. As a Rhode Island merchant noted, “Mrs. Washington is an elegant ﬁgure for a person of her years . . . She
was dressed in a plain black satin gown with long sleeves” and a gauzy black cap
with black bows. “All very neat, but not gaudy.”46 One snobbish female visitor
professed shock at the doyenne’s unpretentious appearance. She and a friend had
“dressed ourselves in our most elegant rufﬂes and silks and were introduced to her
ladyship. And don’t you think, we found her knitting and with a specked [checked]
apron on!”47
Among the major tourist attractions at Mount Vernon was Washington’s stable
of Thoroughbred horses, especially those he rode during the war, who had earned a
rest. Early in the war his steed of choice had been Blueskin, so named for its bluishgray skin. In 1785 Washington gave the horse to a lady friend, Elizabeth French
Dulany, adding an affectionate note of apology: “Marks of antiquity have supplied
the place of those beauties with which this horse abounded—in his better days.”48
Even more renowned was his chestnut Nelson, who had served at Yorktown and
withstood gunﬁre better than any other horse. After the war, Old Nelson was exempt from all work and able to graze to his heart’s content. “They have heard the
roaring of many a cannon in their time,” one appreciative visitor said of these two
horses. “. . . The General makes no manner of use of them now; he keeps them in a
nice stable, where they feed away at their ease for their past services.”49
For the most part, Washington stuck close to home after his years of military exile and resigned from the vestry of Truro Parish, a position he’d held for twenty-two
years. Some scholars have attributed this to political motives. In the immediate aftermath of the war, Anglican vestrymen still had to vow obedience to the “doctrine
and discipline of the Church of England,” which had George III at its head.50 Obviously George Washington couldn’t submit to such a public pledge without provok-

47 0

r! The Statesm a n

ing a brouhaha. During the next few years, as the Anglican Church distanced itself
from its British roots and evolved into the Protestant Episcopal Church, Washington’s church attendance still remained intermittent. One explanation has been that
a minister once chided Washington for failing to take communion, preaching that
great men needed to set an example for the community. Perhaps taking umbrage,
Washington continued to attend the church but avoided Sundays when communion was offered. One also wonders whether Washington didn’t feel an unseemly
sense of being on public display at church, his presence attracting large crowds and
adding to the already weighty burden of his celebrity.
After the war Washington was a far more voracious reader than generally recognized. Though hardly a Renaissance man on a par with Jefferson and Franklin, he
pursued a broad range of interests throughout his life. Long an attentive reader of
agricultural treatises and other books of practical knowledge, he also read the important literature of his time, and his library included volumes of Alexander Pope,
Jonathan Swift, John Milton, and Oliver Goldsmith, as well as Dr. Johnson’s famous
dictionary. In the spring of 1783, from his Newburgh headquarters, he had ordered
books advertised for sale in a gazette, and one is impressed by the substantial works
on the purchase list. For his eclectic postwar reading he had lined up Voltaire’s Letters to Several of His Friends, John Locke’s An Essay Concerning Human Understanding, and Gibbon’s The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire. Showing
a decided biographical bent, he ordered lives of Charles XII of Sweden, Louis XV
of France, and Peter the Great of Russia. Apparently still hoping to make a trip to
France, he ordered a French dictionary and grammar, although he showed little
aptitude for foreign languages and made no discernible headway.
Though not notable for scintillating repartee, Washington enjoyed the society of writers and never felt intellectually threatened by their company. In May
1785 the lexicographer Noah Webster spent a day at Mount Vernon, angling to get
Washington to support a copyright law in Virginia. In all likelihood, he furnished
Washington with a copy of his Sketches of American Policy, which made the case
for a strong central government. A surprising wheeler-dealer, Webster attempted
to cut a deal with Washington: he would tutor Nelly and Washy gratis in exchange
for unrestricted access to Washington’s papers. Scenting a bad bargain, Washington
spurned the offer.
For ten days in June he entertained a well-known British historian, Catharine
Macaulay Graham, and her younger husband. Taken with his visitor, he told Henry
Knox that a “visit from a lady so celebrated in the literary world could not but be
very ﬂattering to me.”51 A woman with a very long, pale face, sharply accentuated
by a very long, pale nose, she was an expert in English and Roman history. A radical Whig and a distinguished friend to American liberty, she entered into serious

American Celebrity r! 47 1

political talks with Washington. “It gave me pleasure to ﬁnd that her sentim[en]
ts respecting the inadequacy of the powers of Congress . . . coincided with my
own,” Washington told Richard Henry Lee.52 Perhaps Washington was also subtly
screening a potential biographer for himself, for he confessed to his diary: “Placed
my military records into the hands of Mrs. Macaulay Graham for her perusal and
amusem[en]t.”53 Dr. Samuel Johnson memorably satirized the female historian as a
high-minded hypocrite, once asking her to show her faith in her egalitarian beliefs
by inviting her footman to dine at her table. She never forgave Johnson for the
taunt.
Washington’s desire to socialize with literary personalities likely arose from his
belief that writers crowned those who won fame and ended up in history’s pantheon. In 1788, when he steered Lafayette to the American poet Joel Barlow, then
resident in France, Washington described Barlow as “one of those bards who hold
the keys of the gate by which patriots, sages, and heroes are admitted to immortality. Such are your ancient bards who are both the priest and doorkeepers to the
temple of fame. And these, my dear Marquis, are no vulgar functions.”54 Washington went on to say that military heroes, far from being passive, could groom their
own advocates: “In some instances . . . heroes have made poets, and poets heroes.
Alexander the Great is said to have been enraptured with the poems of Homer and
to have lamented that he had not a rival muse to celebrate his actions.”55 The passage shows Washington’s underlying hunger for posthumous glory and how calculating he could be in gaining it. He ended the letter by lauding the golden ages of
arms and arts under Louis XIV and Queen Anne and by expressing the hope that
America would not be found “inferior to the rest of the world in the performance
of our poets and painters.”56
For all of Washington’s professions of modesty, the thought of his high destined
niche in history was never far from his mind. Few historical ﬁgures have so lovingly
tended their image. As we have seen, he had issued detailed instructions for preserving his wartime papers. When the wagon train loaded with these bulky papers
set out for Mount Vernon in November 1783, he fussed over their transport, telling
the lieutenant entrusted with the mission that he shouldn’t cross the Susquehanna
or the Potomac by ferry if the winds were too high or any other dangers arose. As
if the wagons were encrusted with precious jewels, he delivered this warning: “The
wagons should never be without a sentinel over them; always locked and the keys
in your possession.”57 He experienced vast relief when the papers showed up safely
at his home.
No sooner had these documents arrived than a would-be biographer, John
Bowie, and a would-be historian of the Revolution, Dr. William Gordon, emerged
from the woodwork. In an extraordinary tribute, Congress had given Washing-

472

r! The Statesm a n

ton access to its secret papers on the same terms as its members, enhancing the
value of his cooperation to future historians. To maintain the tradition of military
submission to civilian authority, Washington decided not to open his papers until
Congress did likewise with its archives. Washington wasn’t reluctant to disclose the
historical record; he just thought it might seem conceited and presumptuous to do
so ﬁrst and that a congressional decision would make it seem less self-aggrandizing.
Of the two projects, Washington was more troubled by the biography, fearing his
cooperation might smack of vanity. “I will frankly declare to you . . . that any memoirs of my life, distinct and unconnected with the general history of the war, would
rather hurt my feelings than tickle my pride whilst I lived,” he told Dr. James Craik.
“I had rather glide gently down the stream of life, leaving it to posterity to think
and say what they please of me, than by an act of mine to have vanity or ostentation
imputed to me.”58
Washington looked favorably upon William Gordon’s history, as long as Congress ﬁrst gave him license to open up his papers. A dissenting minister from
Roxbury, Massachusetts, Dr. Gordon had been a staunch supporter of the independence movement. When Congress gave Washington its approval to unseal his
papers, the indefatigable Gordon spent more than two weeks at Mount Vernon
in June 1784, reading himself blind all day, pausing only for meals. In a letter to
Horatio Gates written soon afterward, he summarized the scope of Washington’s
extraordinary literary repository: “thirty and three volumes of copied letters of
the General’s, besides three volume of private, seven volumes of general orders,
and bundles upon bundles of letters to the General.”59 When Gordon’s multivolume history appeared in 1788, Washington bought two sets for himself and
urged friends to buy it.
Despite the years of work devoted to conserving his papers, Washington thought
they had not yet attained an acceptable state and planned to dedicate the winter of
1784–85 to rescuing them from “a mere mass of confusion.”60 To his dismay, he
never had time to tidy the letters or “transact any business of my own in the way
of acco[un]ts . . . during the whole course of the winter or, in a word, since my
retirement from public life.”61 He remained the prisoner of a clamorous procession
of visitors. Even more time-consuming were the reams of mail that arrived daily,
badgering him for recommendations, referrals, and answers to war-related queries.
Feeding this ﬂood tide of correspondence was a well-meant congressional decision
to exempt from postage all mail to and from Washington. Someone else of Washington’s Olympian stature might have simply ignored unsolicited letters, but with
his innate courtesy, he replied dutifully to all of them, even at the expense of his
business. Duty had long since become a deadly compulsion that he was helpless to
conquer, however much it exhausted him. During the war his large staff of quick-

American Celebrity r! 47 3

witted young aides had handled his correspondence; and now he complained that
“not in the eight years I served the public have I been obliged to write so much myself as I have done since my retirement” from military service.62
Unable to escape fame even in his own home, Washington felt conﬁned to his
desk, and his health suffered for lack of sufﬁcient exercise. “I already begin to feel
the effect,” he told Henry Knox. “Heavy and painful oppressions of the head and
other disagreeable sensations often trouble me.”63 A physician, possibly James Craik,
advised him that the worrisome head symptoms resulted from excessive paperwork
and that he had to stop. The solution grew crystal-clear to Washington: “I am determined therefore to employ some person who shall ease me of the drudgery of
this business.”64 In July 1785, he hired a young man, William Shaw, as his factotum
to draft letters, organize his papers, and even tutor Nelly and Washy. But Shaw had
a habit of gallivanting about whenever Washington needed him and lasted only
thirteen months.
Far happier was Washington’s association with Lieutenant Colonel David Humphreys, who had served as his aide late in the war. A Yale graduate and former Connecticut schoolmaster, he was a husky young man in his mid-thirties with a dense
thatch of wavy hair, a soft, jowly face, and an engaging gleam in his eyes. Washington doted on Humphreys to the point that John Trumbull said, with only a touch of
mockery, that he was the “belov’d of Washington.”65 Humphreys had turned in such
a stellar performance at Yorktown that Washington honored him with a special
distinction: he had carried the twenty-four captured British ﬂags to Congress and
was presented, in turn, with a commemorative sword. An able writer, Humphreys
drafted many of Washington’s remarks at the stultifying round of receptions that
followed the evacuation of New York.
After the war Humphreys worked in Paris with Jefferson and helped to negotiate commercial treaties. In July 1785 Washington acceded to Humphreys’s request
to write a biography of him. In laying out the conditions of employment, which
would include arranging his papers, Washington smothered the younger man with
attention, promising to provide him with oral reminiscences and access to his archives: “And I can with great truth add that my house would not only be at your service during the period of your preparing this work, but . . . I should be exceedingly
happy if you would make it your home. You might have an apartment to yourself in
which you could command your own time. You would be considered and treated as
one of the family.”66 By now Washington had guaranteed that objectivity would be
impossible for Humphreys, embraced as he was by the American god. In a telling
comment, Washington told his prospective Boswell that he would have undertaken
his own memoir but lacked the time and was also “conscious of a defective education and want of capacity to ﬁt me for such an undertaking.”67 It is striking that

474

r! The Statesm a n

Washington’s earlier insecurity still resided beneath his conﬁdent air. One visitor
picked up an interesting verbal tic of Washington’s that may reﬂect a lack of education, the way he tripped over words: “The general converses with great deliberation
and with ease, except in pronouncing some few words: in which he has a hesitancy
of speech.”68 Such pauses may also have owed something to Washington’s slippery
dentures.
Starting in the summer of 1786, Humphreys came to Mount Vernon to compile
research for his book. His admiring but incomplete narrative of Washington’s life
proved less important than the four-thousand-word marginal commentary penned
by Washington on portions dealing with the French and Indian War. At some point
after returning to Mount Vernon, Washington had assistants transcribe his letters
from that period, and in another instance of old insecurities rearing their head, he
corrected his youthful spelling and grammar and polished awkward passages. Addicted as always to self-control, he opposed inadvertent revelations of self.
During his Mount Vernon stays, Humphreys was a charming, amiable companion of the family. With a deep passion for poetry, he was wont to burst into
recitations on the spur of the moment. He became the roving poet of the plantation, spouting verses en plein air when he quit work for the day. As happened
with Lafayette, Humphreys brought out a youthful idealism in Washington, even
a buried utopian streak. The man who had headed an army for more than eight
years told Humphreys, in biblical cadences, that he longed to see the curse of war
ended: “My ﬁrst wish is to see this plague to mankind banished from the earth
and the sons and daughters of this world employed in more pleasing and innocent
amusements.” He also wanted America to function as the promised land for the
world’s downtrodden: “Rather than quarrel about territory, let the poor, the needy,
and oppressed of the earth . . . resort to the fertile plains of our western country, to
the second land of promise, and there dwell in peace, fulﬁlling the ﬁrst and great
commandment.”69
Slowly, Washington assembled a cadre of bright, capable young men—the
peacetime equivalent of his military family—to assist him with the mounting
stacks of paperwork. In January 1786 General Benjamin Lincoln recommended as a
private secretary twenty-three-year-old Tobias Lear of New Hampshire, a Harvard
graduate who read French and was a ﬂuent letter writer. In reply, Washington explained that such an assistant would also tutor Washy and “will sit at my table—will
live as I live—will mix with the company which resort to the Ho[use].”70 Despite
his unstinting admiration for Washington, Lear expressed one reservation about
working at Mount Vernon: he abhorred slavery. Only when Washington declared
his ultimate intention to free his slaves and said they would meanwhile be better
off under his tutelage than anywhere else did Lear relent. The personal and profes-

American Celebrity r! 475

sional relationship with Lear lasted much longer than that with the self-absorbed
David Humphreys. Lear became yet another of the surrogate sons who supplied the
absence of biological children for George and Martha Washington. The feeling was
reciprocated, as can be seen in Lear’s praise of Martha Washington as “everything
that is benevolent and good. I honor her as a second mother and receive from her
all those attentions which I should look for from her who bore me.”71

ch ap ter thirt y-nine

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Gentleman Farmer

Ge orge Wa sh i ngt on might resign his commission—might spurn an impertinent suggestion that he be anointed king—but he refused to renounce a princely
style in his private life, as if his highest social ambition after the war were to return
to Virginia and resurrect the privileged world he had left behind. He had, in many
ways, been transformed by the war, but he had not yet realized how profoundly the
democratic message of the American Revolution would ﬁlter down to the masses
and even, in the fullness of time, threaten slavery itself. He clung to the tastes of a
British country squire while making few concessions to a more egalitarian ethos.
Strange as it may sound, Mount Vernon after the war did not evolve in notable
ways that reﬂected American independence, except for greater efforts at agricultural modernity.
Many improvements that Washington had ﬁrst projected in the early 1770s
came to fruition only after the long hiatus of the war. Where visitors had once approached Mount Vernon by a straight path, they now rode along a symmetrical
pair of serpentine drives that tantalized them with ﬂickering glimpses of the distant mansion. At the end, right before they alighted, their carriages ran over rough
gravel and curved around a bowling green and a small circular courtyard. Unable
to tell a lie, Washington admitted in his diary that he had “cut down the two cherry
trees in the courtyard.”1 The house was now attached to the outlying buildings by
graceful covered walkways that, instead of shutting out nature, disclosed distant
vistas of natural beauty. All in all, Mount Vernon contained fourteen or ﬁfteen separate buildings, giving newcomers the impression that they had rolled into a small,
bustling rural village.

Gentleman Farmer r! 47 7

The most imposing expansion of the house was the soaring chamber at the
north end, dubbed the New Room or Banquet Hall. The splendid stage set for
many social and political gatherings, it was the closest approximation Washington could obtain to a state dining room. Executed in a grander and more reﬁned
style than anything else in the house—it made the rest seem fairly humdrum by
comparison—the room rose two stories high, its height emphasized by a tall Palladian window. At the time, green and blue were the most expensive imported pigments, prompting a status-conscious Washington to opt for bright green wallpaper,
which gave the room a cheerful buoyancy by day but must have lent guests a lurid
sheen at candlelit dinners. Washington ordered gilded borders that endowed the
green walls with “a rich and handsome look.”2
When he mentioned to Samuel Vaughan of Philadelphia that the room lacked a
chimneypiece, the English-born merchant spontaneously sent one of Italian marble,
ﬂanked by ﬂuted columns and topped by pastoral imagery—farm animals, plows,
contented peasants—evocative of Cincinnatus. This exquisite ornament, shipped
in ten bulky cases, made Washington blush with embarrassment. Always dealing
with an unresolved tension between his aristocratic tastes and republican ideology,
he confessed to discomfort about the chimneypiece. “I greatly fear it is too elegant
and costly for my room and republican style of living,” he told Vaughan’s son.3 In
the end, Washington overcame his doubts and held on to the piece. Clearly preparing to entertain sumptuously, he ordered seventy yards of red and white livery lace
to outﬁt slaves tending guests.
In these early postwar years, Mount Vernon acquired the architectural touches
that became its trademark and marked its owner’s new self-assurance. Most striking
was the two-story piazza fronting the Potomac, supported by eight square wooden
pillars and with an English ﬂagstone walkway. Porches were relatively new in America, and this one transcended anything Washington might have seen, underscoring
his architectural daring. The stately piazza, with expansive views of the Potomac,
lent itself to hospitality. The porch also signaled to river trafﬁc coming around
the bend—one visitor remembered an “amazing number of sloops . . . constantly
sailing up and down the river”—the elevated standing of the plantation’s owner.4
“The view down the river is extensive and most charming,” said Samuel Powel of
Philadelphia, who called Mount Vernon “the most charming seat I have seen in
America.”5 Washington paid a penalty in indoor comfort for his magniﬁcent piazza,
since the projecting roof plunged the rooms on that side into perpetual shadow. On
the other hand, he had Windsor chairs and light portable tables brought onto the
piazza in warm weather, which allowed guests to enjoy alfresco dining, cooled by
river breezes and serenaded by parrots.
Adding grandeur to the west side was an octagonal cupola, surmounted by a

47 8

r! The Statesm a n

weathervane, ﬁgured as the Dove of Peace, with a green olive branch in its black
beak. It was a powerful statement from the former commander in chief, a silent
prayer for peace. The gracious quality of Mount Vernon in the 1780s surely owed
something to Washington’s desire for a restful atmosphere after the backbreaking
years of combat.
The man who won American independence nonetheless remained in thrall to
British fashion. When he told Samuel Vaughan of his desire to redo the New Room
in stucco, he added an anxious aside, as if seeking urgent conﬁrmation—“which,
if I understood you right, is the present taste in England.”6 On the slope between
the piazza and the river, Washington laid out a deer park in the English style, with
a mixed herd of English and American deer—an innovation that forced him to
reduce hunting nearby, since foxhounds might have scared them away. He also
tried to follow the English fashion of planting “live fences” or hedgerows instead
of standard wooden fences. Along the sinuous drives, he laid out a formal English
landscape, fragrant with groves, shrubs, and extensive pleasure gardens that invited
strollers to enter and wander. His garrulous German gardener told anyone who
cared to listen that he had served as gardener to the kings of Prussia and of England. Forming the ornamental centerpiece of the gardens was a handsome brick
greenhouse with seven tall, narrow windows that spanned almost the entire wall.
An uncommon structure in rural Virginia, this enclosure enabled Washington to
grow palm trees and semitropical plants as well as lemons, limes, and oranges. In
the surrounding meadows he selected trees with a discerning artistic eye, and in the
springtime the estate was radiant with the bloom of peach, cherry, apple, apricot,
lilac, and dogwood blossoms.
All this display impressed visitors, often wrongly, with the magnitude of the
owner’s wealth. When one English merchant toured Mount Vernon in 1785, he
stumbled into this understandable error: Washington’s “gardens and pleasure
grounds . . . were very extensive . . . He is allowed to be one of the best informed
as well as successful planters in America.”7 Washington was indeed well informed,
but his success was more problematic. The merchant would have been shocked to
hear Washington grumble that year that “to be plain, my coffers are not overﬂowing
with money.”8 Unable to curtail his free-handed spending and with his crops faring
poorly, he started out 1786 with a paltry eighty-six pounds in cash.
Although Washington delegated authority to managers and overseers, he never
really developed a right-hand man or someone equivalent to him in power. Even
after George Augustine Washington succeeded Lund, Washington kept a tightﬁsted grip on operations, monitoring them through weekly reports, a process so
rigorous that some detected a military mentality at work. Senator William Maclay
later wrote of Mount Vernon as regimented to the point of madness: “It is under

Gentleman Farmer r! 47 9

different overseers. Who may be styled generals . . . The Friday of every week is appointed for the overseers, or we will say brigadier generals, to make up their returns.
Not a day’s work but is noted what, by whom, and where done; not a cow calves or
ewe drops her lamb but is registered . . . Thus the etiquette and arrangement of an
army is preserved on his farm.”9
To repair his damaged ﬁnances, Washington set out for his western holdings in
September 1784, hoping to retrieve lost rents. He was accompanied by Dr. Craik and
his son, his nephew Bushrod Washington, and three slaves. He had never ceased to
be a prophet of the pristine Ohio Country, declaring during the Revolution that
there was “no ﬁner country in the known world than is encircled by the Ohio, Mississippi, and Great Lakes.”10 On the basis of prewar patents, Washington claimed
thirty thousand western acres, with survey rights to an additional ten thousand. On
an abstract level, Washington portrayed the western lands as a new American Eden,
telling the Reverend John Witherspoon, a Presbyterian minister and president of
the College of New Jersey, that “it would give me pleasure to see these lands seated
by particular societies or religious sectaries with their pastors.”11 When it came to
his actual behavior as a landlord, however, Washington never ascended to these
giddy rhetorical heights and could sound like a downright skinﬂint.
The early postwar years witnessed a mad and often lawless scramble for western
lands, and many settlers had little regard for eastern landlords who claimed their
property. Throughout the Revolution Washington received reports of squatters occupying his land while legitimate tenants fell behind on payments. At ﬁrst, inclining
toward leniency, he said that those squatters who improved the land should be allowed to stay at reasonable rents. Giving them the beneﬁt of the doubt, he said they
might have inadvertently settled the land without realizing it was his. By the summer of 1784, however, he had lost all patience. Western rents had become his main
source of revenue, and he decided to take matters into his own hands by personally
dunning recalcitrant tenants. Less than a year after laying down his commission at
Annapolis, the American Cincinnatus, badly strapped for cash, was reduced to a
bill collector.
For this rugged journey across the Appalachian Mountains, Washington loaded
up the horses with a large tent, camp utensils, a boat, medicine, and hooks and lines
for ﬁshing. He retraced the footsteps of earlier journeys into the western country, a landscape rife with youthful memories, including the march with Braddock’s
army. Still a fearless traveler, he didn’t shrink from roughing it—at one campsite he
slept under nothing but his cloak in a torrential downpour—but his diaries contain
more references to fatigue than in earlier years as well as to rain running in rivulets
down the trails.
A man of strongly ﬁxed enthusiasms, Washington was also bent on reviving his

480

r! The Statesm a n

long-standing but stalled project of improving the Potomac River navigation. He
was still bedazzled by the vision of a watery gateway to the Ohio Valley that ran
right by his home. When he arrived at Berkeley Springs, he came under the sway
of a gifted inventor endowed with glib patter, James Rumsey, who had devised a
mechanical boat that could churn upstream against the current. Always open to
innovation, Washington was beguiled by Rumsey’s craft. Spying a way to promote
Potomac trafﬁc, he did more than pay lip service to this device: he issued a written
endorsement for Rumsey, vouching that he had actually seen his ungainly invention move upstream against the current.
When Washington stopped at his property at Great Meadows, scene of the Fort
Necessity debacle, he made no reference in his diary to its bloody history. As before
the war, he scrutinized the western frontier with the coolly appraising eyes of a
landlord. He seemed exclusively concerned with the meadow’s commercial value,
commenting that it would make “a very good stand for a tavern. Much hay may be
cut here when the ground is laid down in grass and the upland, east of the meadow,
is good for grain.”12 Unsentimental about property, he ordered his local agent to
rent the tract “for the most you can get for the term of ten years.”13
In this wilderness area, Washington’s fame counted for little and even exposed
him to heightened danger. Protecting it as their rightful territory, Indians had engaged in violent confrontations with settlers on the northwest side of the Ohio
River. Congress had banned settlers from this region, but speculators were still
drawn by visions of colossal land grabs. “Men in these times talk with as much
facility of ﬁfty, a hundred, and even 500,000 acres as a gentleman formerly would
do of 1,000 acres,” noted Washington, who sounded sympathetic to Indian grievances.14 Upon hearing stories of murdered settlers, he canceled a scheduled trip
down the Ohio. “Had you proceeded on your tour down the river,” one adviser told
him, “I believe it would have been attended with the most dreadful consequences.”
The Indians had seized General James Wilkinson under the mistaken impression
that he was Washington, and only with “much difﬁculty of persuasion and gifts”
had he escaped.15 To Washington’s consternation, the violent clashes with Indians
prevented him from visiting his extensive bounty lands on the Ohio and Great Kanawha rivers—lots measured not in feet but in miles—which were being brazenly
offered for sale by speculators as far away as Europe.
On September 14 Washington had his ﬁrst encounter with the families that
had allegedly invaded his property Millers Run (not far from today’s Canonsburg,
Pennsylvania, southwest of Pittsburgh). While Washington’s deputy, William Crawford, had surveyed the property as early as 1771, squatters contended that they had
come upon an empty tract and occupied it before the patent was granted. If Washington expected special deference in these remote mountain hollows, he quickly

Gentleman Farmer r! 4 81

learned otherwise. On the frontier, he did not enjoy the veneration he did back east,
a rowdy new democratic culture having taken root.
As he bargained with poor, deﬁant settlers, members of a dissenting Presbyterian sect, Washington sounded a different note from his rhapsodic speech to John
Witherspoon about seeding the West with religious sects or from his grandiloquent
boast to Lafayette that Congress had “opened the fertile plains of the Ohio to the
poor, the needy, and the oppressed of the earth.”16 After his ﬁrst meeting with the
Reed family, Washington noted sarcastically their effort “to discover all the ﬂaws
they could in my deed and to establish a fair and upright intention in themselves.”17
At their next meeting the tone turned even more confrontational. To settle the controversy, the Reeds offered to buy the land but balked at the steep price quoted by
Washington. The standoff ended acrimoniously; the family decided to sue him, and
Washington threatened to evict them. Reed family legend contended that a tetchy
Washington responded “with dignity and some warmth, asserting that they had
been forewarned by his agent, and the nature of his claim fully made known; that
there could be no doubt of its validity, and rising from his seat and holding a red
silk handkerchief by one corner, he said, ‘Gentlemen, I will have this land just as
surely as I now have this handkerchief.’”18 The lawsuit wound bitterly through the
courts for two years before Washington emerged victorious. Conciliatory in victory,
he permitted the squatters to lease the property instead of evicting them.
By October 4 Washington had completed his 680-mile trip, which proved his
last visit to the Ohio Country. While the dispiriting journey had failed to satisfy
his economic objectives, it sharpened his views of policies needed to develop the
region. He saw how ﬁckle were the loyalties of the western settlers and how easily they might be lured someday by a designing foreign power. Since Spain had
obstructed American commerce on the Mississippi River, Washington thought the
United States could cement its grip on these inhabitants by offering them navigable
waterways to the eastern seaboard, preferably through Virginia, creating “a smooth
way for the produce of that country to pass to our markets before the trade may get
into another channel.”19 He believed that “commercial connections, of all others,
are most difﬁcult to dissolve,” which foreshadowed his faith as president in enduring commercial rather than political ties with other countries.20 He also feared that
thirteen squabbling states would be powerless to act in a timely fashion as the world
was being swiftly reshaped on the western frontier.

Fa r mor e gr at i f y i ng t o Wa sh i ngt on than bullying hardscrabble farmers was his attempt to modernize postwar agriculture at Mount Vernon. He found
farming congenial to his temperament and talked about it with undisguised relish,

4 82

r! The Statesm a n

but he sometimes sounded more like a yeoman farmer, toiling by the sweat of his
brow, than the master of a vast slave plantation. In 1788 he wrote that “the life of
a husbandman, of all others, is the most delectable . . . To see plants rise from the
earth and ﬂourish by the superior skill and bounty of the laborer ﬁlls a contemplative mind with ideas which are more easy to be conceived than expressed.”21 Many
dinner guests noted that Washington’s ﬂagging attention perked up whenever
agriculture was discussed. Farming was a safe topic for him, deﬂecting conversation from political controversy, but it also ranked as a genuine passion. “Indeed, I
am told that he feels more animation and throws off more of his natural phlegm
when conversing on that topic than on any other,” a young British diplomat later
noted.22
Washington liked to affect a patrician tone about farming, as if it were merely an
amusing pastime, but his livelihood depended upon it. His fascination with scientiﬁc agriculture was spurred initially by an urgent practical need: to ﬁgure out what
to do with soil depleted by tobacco cultivation. He believed devoutly that American
agriculture had to change and looked toward England as the model to emulate. “It
may not in this place be amiss to observe to you that I still decline the growth of
tobacco,” he wrote to George William Fairfax in 1785, “and to add that it is my intention to raise as little Indian corn as may be. In a word, that I am desirous of entering
upon a compleat course of husbandry as practiced in the best farming counties
of England.”23 A curious boast coming from George Washington. With a genuine
yearning for agricultural reform, he experimented with different seeds, grafted fruit
trees, tested grapes for a homegrown Virginia wine, and collected cuttings from
friends. Not to be outdone by Jefferson, he also devised a new agricultural plow that
could seed and harrow ﬁelds at the same time. This was the golden age of amateur
gentlemen scientists, and when Washington wanted to learn whether spermaceti
candles or tallow candles were cheaper, he set up an experiment, recorded how long
it took each type to burn, then computed that spermaceti candles were more than
twice as expensive as tallow.
During the 1780s, with agricultural prices depressed, Washington found it hard
to make any headway as a farmer. In November 1785 he told George William Fairfax
that he never viewed his plantations “without seeing something which makes me
regret having [continued] so long in the ruinous mode of farming which we are
in.”24 The following year, perplexed by what to do, he launched an important correspondence with a renowned English agronomist, Arthur Young, who sent him his
four-volume Annals of Agriculture. Candid about his own inadequacies as a farmer,
Washington asked for advice about more than just the ruinous practices and backward farm implements at Mount Vernon. Rather, he saw the agricultural system of
the whole country as bogged down in outdated methods and was especially critical

Gentleman Farmer r! 4 83

of Virginia planters who exhausted their soil with endless rounds of tobacco, Indian
corn, and wheat. Deciding to conserve his soil through crop rotation, Washington
ordered a variety of new seeds from Young—including cabbage, turnips, rye, and
hop clover—and under Young’s tutelage eventually planted sixty different crops at
Mount Vernon. A severe drought and a boll weevil infestation drastically cut his
wheat yield in 1787. Nonetheless, determined to rotate his crops, he had by 1789
planted wheat, barley, oats, rye, clover, timothy, buckwheat, Indian corn, pumpkins,
potatoes, turnips, peas, and ﬂax. As president, he lent the prestige of his ofﬁce to
espousing a national board of agriculture that could diffuse scientiﬁc information
to farmers.
In 1788 Washington commenced work on a two-story brick and timber barn,
a hundred feet long, which would be “the largest and most convenient one in this
country,” as he bragged.25 This massive construction project taxed the resources of
Mount Vernon, where all 40,000 bricks were made; more than 35,000 board feet of
pine planks and 100,000 juniper shingles were bought ready-made. Washington intended to store his grain and other crops in this commodious structure. “The barn
is so well planned that a man can ﬁll the racks with hay or potatoes easily and without any danger,” noted Brissot de Warville, who appreciated the novelty of both
barn and barnyard, which “were innovations in Virginia, where they have no barns
and do not store fodder for cattle.”26 Starting in 1792, Washington also erected a specialized sixteen-sided barn for threshing wheat. As horses circled around the barn
at a trot, trampling the wheat, the grain fell cleanly between gaps in the wooden
ﬂoorboards to a granary on the lower level.
Always musing about the future of American agriculture, Washington introduced ingenious innovations at a merchant gristmill that he had ﬁrst installed at his
Dogue Run farm in the early 1770s. He recruited a Delaware inventor, Oliver Evans,
who had ﬁgured out a way to automate all the mill elements through gears and
conveyor belts. Powered by a sixteen-foot waterwheel, the mill hoisted the grain by
buckets, ground it, then spread the high-quality ﬂour to cool before it was poured
into barrels for export. The sheer variety of business activities at Mount Vernon
would make President Washington as receptive to the manufacturing visions of an
Alexander Hamilton as to the agrarian dreams of a Thomas Jefferson.
Perhaps nothing better illustrated Washington’s pioneering farm work than his
development of the American mule, a hardy animal representing a cross between
a male donkey (also called a jack) and a female horse. Mules were less fragile than
horses but more docile than donkeys and cheap to maintain. Before Washington
championed these creatures, they had hardly existed in the country. He started
breeding them when he received a gray jack from the king of Spain called Royal
Gift and a black jack called Knight of Malta from Lafayette. Royal Gift was big and

4 84

r! The Statesm a n

lumbering but lacking in animal spark, whereas Knight of Malta was small but
lusty. Washington cunningly bred the two animals and ended up with a jack known
as Compound that merged the size of Royal Gift with the feisty nature of Knight
of Malta. After some early difﬁculties, the resulting donkeys settled down and performed their duties, producing ﬁfty-seven mules at Mount Vernon by century’s
end and enabling Washington to realize his hope to “secure a race of extraordinary
goodness that will stock the country.”27 In addition to his better-known title of
Father of His Country, Washington is also revered in certain circles as the Father of
the American Mule.

chapter forty

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Devil’s Bargain

For a l l t h e ta l k of agricultural modernity at Mount Vernon, there was
something unreal about the entire topic for a plantation economy premised on that
most antiquated and repressive of systems: slavery. As the most glaring negation of
the American Revolution’s ideals, slavery was bound to ignite controversy after the
war. All the talk of liberty clashed with the reality of widespread bondage. Slavery
posed the supreme challenge to the ideas that Washington had imbibed during the
war and tested the pronouncements about peace and understanding that permeated his postwar correspondence. For the Marquis de Lafayette, the notion that
an independent America would tolerate slavery was more than a contradiction in
terms: it was anathema to everything he believed. As he told British abolitionist
Thomas Clarkson, “I would never have drawn my sword in the cause of America if I
could have conceived that thereby I was founding a land of slavery.”1 So profoundly
in earnest was Lafayette that Clarkson called him “as uncompromising an enemy of
the slave trade and slavery as any man I ever knew.”2
As early as February 5, 1783, Lafayette made it overwhelmingly clear in a letter to
Washington that his idol couldn’t evade this touchy subject: “Permit me to propose
a plan to you which might become greatly beneﬁcial to the black part of mankind.
Let us unite in purchasing a small estate where we may try the experiment to free
the Negroes and use them only as tenants.”3 As he pointed out, Washington’s sterling reputation could make this revolutionary act “general practice” in the United
States.4 As impulsive as Washington was cautious, Lafayette gloried in his iconoclasm. “If it be a wild scheme,” he maintained, “I had rather be mad that way than to
be thought wise on the other tack.”5 Lafayette’s abolitionism may have been inﬂu-

4 86

r! The Statesm a n

enced by his wartime association with James Armistead, a slave who served under
him in Virginia and operated as a valuable spy, inﬁltrating the British lines under
the guise of being an escaped slave.
When Washington received Lafayette’s letter, the war was winding down and
he was dwelling on his impaired ﬁnances. His economic well-being depended on
slavery, so that whatever his theoretical sympathy with Lafayette’s idea, he could not
have been thrilled by the timing. Not wanting to disillusion his worshipful protégé, he replied the way a fond father might write to an ardent but impractical son:
“The scheme, my dear Marq[ui]s, which you propose as a precedent to encourage
the emancipation of the black people of this country . . . is a striking evidence of the
benevolence of your heart. I shall be happy to join you in so laudable a work, but
will defer going into detail of the business till I have the pleasure of seeing you.”6
This was Washington’s canny way of crediting Lafayette’s noble project while also
sidestepping any speciﬁc commitment to it.
At his home in Paris, Lafayette ﬂaunted his ties to the American Revolution,
posting a portrait of Washington and American ﬂags on the walls. His infatuation
did not cool with time. He seemed to live in an eternal, high-ﬂown rapture with
Washington and wrote to him in language that was almost ecstatic. In one letter
he labeled Washington “the savior of his country, the benefactor of mankind, the
protecting angel of liberty, the pride of America, and the admiration of the two
hemispheres”—all in a single sentence.7 After the war Washington was powerfully
tempted to go to Paris, especially when a French nobleman assured him that King
Louis XVI and Marie-Antoinette had “expressed their desire to be acquainted with
the circumstances of a life which has so much contributed to the liberty of your
country.”8 Washington felt the full force of this royal favor, which he labeled “one
of the most ﬂattering incidents” of his life.9 When Lafayette pleaded with him to
visit France, Washington had to rule it out because of his ﬁnancial plight and because Martha was “too far advanced in life and is too much immersed in the care
of her little progeny to cross the Atlantic.” Writing like a pious hermit instead of
a world-renowned general, Washington urged Lafayette and his wife to travel to
Mount Vernon “and call my cottage your home . . . You will see the plain manner
in which we live and meet the rustic civility. And you shall taste the simplicity of
rural life.”10
Nothing could stop Lafayette’s triumphant return to America. While projecting
a trip there in the spring of 1783, he wrote to Washington in a typical burst of enthusiasm, “Happy, ten times happy will I be in embracing my dear general, my father,
my best friend.”11 Not until the following March did Lafayette assure Washington
that, before the summer was out, “you will see a vessel coming up [the] Potomac,
and out of that vessel will your friend jump with a panting heart and all the feel-

Devil’s Bargain r! 4 87

ings of perfect happiness.”12 Washington responded with gratitude to the buckets of
Gallic charm that Lafayette poured over his head at every turn.
Upon arriving at Mount Vernon in August 1784, Lafayette was delighted to ﬁnd
a group portrait of himself and his family in an honored place in the parlor. He
bore a cherished gift from Paris, a Masonic apron that Adrienne had embroidered
for the general. Lafayette was instantly entranced by Nelly and Washy. “The general
has adopted them and loves them deeply,” he told his wife. “It was quite funny when
I arrived to see the curious looks on those two small faces who had heard nothing
but talk of me the entire day and wanted to see if I looked like my portrait.”13
Finding Washington busy but relaxed, Lafayette delighted in his company and
treasured their dinner conversations, when they swapped wartime anecdotes. Washington guided him around the grounds and quizzed him about European ﬂowers
that might ﬂourish there. All the while the vexed question of slavery hung heavily
in the air. Earlier in the summer, during William Gordon’s two-week stay, Washington had admitted to a desire to be rid of his slaves and mentioned Lafayette’s
abolitionist plans. “I should rejoice beyond measure could your joint counsels and
inﬂuence produce it,” Gordon responded, “and thereby give the ﬁnishing stroke
and the last polish to your political characters.”14 Unfortunately, we don’t know
the speciﬁcs of the conversation between Washington and Lafayette about slavery.
When Lafayette encountered James Madison, the former said he was now gripped
by three obsessions: the French-American alliance, the unity of the thirteen states,
and “the manumission of the slaves.”15 Madison, a large slave owner, wrote to Jefferson, another large slave owner, that Lafayette’s position on slavery “does him real
honor, as it is a proof of his humanity.”16 After the Revolution it was unquestionably
fashionable to utter such high-minded sentiments, but talk was cheap and direct
action was quite another matter.
While in Richmond, Lafayette had a consequential encounter with James Armistead, the handsome, round-faced slave who had gallantly assisted him during
the war. To help him sue for his freedom, Lafayette furnished him with an afﬁdavit
that testiﬁed to his valor: “His intelligence from the enemy’s camp were industriously collected and most faithfully delivered.”17 Not only did Armistead win his
freedom and a pension from the legislature (which also compensated his master),
but he changed his name in gratitude to James Armistead Lafayette.
Since Lafayette was slated to return to France in December, Washington, in a
loving gesture, volunteered to escort him to his ship in New York—the ﬁrst time
he had ventured out of state since the war. When they reached Annapolis, however,
the two men found themselves trapped in such a tedious round of receptions that
Washington dreaded the ovations yet to come in Philadelphia and New York. So
one day in early December, Washington and Lafayette gave each other an affec-

488

r! The Statesm a n

tionate farewell hug and climbed into their respective carriages. Afterward, in an
affecting letter that showed his powerful, if often suppressed, need for intimacy and
how he equated Lafayette with his own lost youth, Washington told Lafayette of his
turbulent emotions at their parting:
In the moment of our separation upon the road, as I traveled and every hour since,
I felt all that love, respect, and attachment for you with which length of years, close
connection, and your merits have inspired me. I often asked myself, as our carriages
distended, whether that was the last sight I ever should have of you? And tho[ugh] I
wished to say no, my fears answered yes. I called to mind the days of my youth and
found they had long since ﬂed to return no more; that I was now descending the hill I
had been 52 years climbing; and that tho[ugh] I was blessed with a good constitution,
I was of a short-lived family and might soon expect to be entombed in the dreary
mansions of my father’s. These things darkened the shades and gave a gloom to the
picture, consequently to my prospects of seeing you again. But I will not repine—I
have had my day.18

One of Washington’s premonitions in these melancholy musings proved correct: he
never set eyes on Lafayette again.
Back in France, Lafayette showered Washington with gifts, including seven
hounds sent in the custody of John Quincy Adams. He also sent along French
pheasants and nightingales, which Washington had never seen before. All the
while, Lafayette perfected his manumission scheme and acted on it the next year
with breathtaking speed. He bought a large sugar plantation in Cayenne (French
Guiana), on the South American coast, which came with nearly seventy slaves. He
promptly began to educate and emancipate them, paying wages to those old enough
to work, providing schooling for the children, and banning the sale of human beings. To make this scheme self-perpetuating, Lafayette instructed his agent to keep
on adding more lands and freeing more slaves.
In congratulating him, Washington displayed enormous admiration while again
shrinking from any ﬁrm commitment to a comparable project: “The benevolence
of your heart, my dear Marquis, is so conspicuous upon all occasions that I never
wonder at any fresh proofs of it. But your late purchase of an estate in the colony
of Cayenne, with a view of emancipating the slaves on it, is a generous and noble
proof of your humanity. Would to God a like spirit would diffuse itself generally
into the minds of the people of this country, but I despair of seeing it.”19 To set the
slaves “aﬂoat” abruptly, he feared, would “be productive of much inconvenience
and mischief, but by degrees it certainly might, and assuredly ought to be effected
and that, too, by legislative authority.”20

Devil’s Bargain r! 4 8 9

The news of Lafayette’s feat came as Washington was being prodded to take
a public stand on abolishing slavery. Before the war it had required an act of the
royal governor and his council to free a slave. Then in 1782 a new law gave masters
permission to free their own slaves, and hundreds manumitted at least a few. Inﬂuenced by the Revolution, antislavery societies sprang up across Virginia. In 1785
the Virginia legislature debated whether freed slaves should be permitted to stay in
the state—something that might give their enslaved brethren seditious ideas—and
abolitionist petitions were introduced. Washington became the target of a subtle
but persistent campaign by abolitionists to enlist him in their cause. When Elkanah Watson visited Mount Vernon in January 1785, he bore books on emancipation written by British abolitionist Granville Sharpe, founder of the African colony
of Sierra Leone. And then there were people such as Robert Pleasants, a Virginia
Quaker who liberated seventy-eight of his slaves and proclaimed that Washington’s
failure to follow suit would leave an everlasting stain on his reputation.
That May, Thomas Coke and Francis Asbury, two eminent Methodist ministers,
brought to Mount Vernon an emancipation petition that they planned to introduce in the Virginia legislature. Although Washington refrained from signing it, he
voiced “his opinion against slavery,” Asbury recorded in his diary, and promised to
write a letter supporting the measure if it ever came to a vote.21 This typiﬁed Washington’s ambivalent approach to slavery in the 1780s: he privately made no secret of
his disdain for the institution, but neither did he have the courage to broadcast his
views or act on them publicly. After endorsing abolition, he shunted direct action
onto other shoulders. Amid a blistering debate, the Coke-Asbury petition failed in
the Virginia House of Delegates that November, with Madison reporting to Washington, “A motion was made to throw it under the table, which was treated with
as much indignation on one side, as the petition itself was on the other.”22 Such
ﬁerce emotions must have given pause to Washington, if he harbored any unspoken
thoughts about a future return to the political arena.
Washington’s quandary over slavery was thrown into high relief by a visit on
April 9, 1786, from a local slave owner, Philip Dalby, who had recently traveled to
Philadelphia with his slave, a mulatto waiter named Frank. After Frank was spirited
away by a team of Quaker abolitionists, Dalby ﬁled suit in the Pennsylvania assembly and, to drum up support, placed a shrill ad in the Alexandria newspaper,
warning planters about the “insidious” work of Philadelphia Quakers.23 Incensed
over the incident, Washington dashed off a strongly worded letter to his Philadelphia friend Robert Morris that expressed no sympathy for the Quakers, decrying
instead their “acts of tyranny and oppression.”24 Unless these practices ceased, he
warned, “none of those whose misfortune it is to have slaves as attendants will visit
the city if they can possibly avoid it, because by so doing they hazard their property

49 0

r! The Statesm a n

or they must be at the expense . . . of providing servants of another description for
the trip.”25 This wasn’t the only time Washington talked of slavery as a curse visited
on him rather than a system of privilege enforced by him.
At this point in the letter, Washington suddenly remembered that he opposed
slavery and had to justify his righteous indignation about the Quaker actions: “I
hope it will not be conceived from these observations that it is my wish to hold
the unhappy people who are the subject of this letter in slavery. I can only say that
there is not a man living who wishes more sincerely than I do to see a plan adopted
for the abolition of it [slavery], but there is only one proper and effectual mode by
which it can be accomplished, and that by legislative authority. And this, as far as
my suffrage will go, shall never be wanting.”26 Of course, Washington lacked a vote
in the state legislature and took refuge in a position that was largely symbolic. The
idea that abolition could be deferred to some future date when it would be carried out by cleanly incremental legislative steps was a common fantasy among the
founders, since it shifted the burden onto later generations. It was especially attractive to Washington, the country’s foremost apostle of unity, who knew that slavery
was potentially the country’s most divisive issue.
Historians often quote a September 1786 letter from Washington to John Francis Mercer as signaling a major forward stride in his thinking on slavery: “I never
mean (unless some particular circumstance should compel me to it) to possess another slave by purchase, it being among my ﬁrst wishes to see some plan adopted by
the legislature by which slavery in this country may be abolished by slow, sure, and
imperceptible degrees.”27 But this noble statement then took a harsh turn. Washington mentioned being hard pressed by two debts—to retire one of which, “if there
is no other resource, I must sell land or Negroes to discharge.”28 In other words,
in a pinch, Washington would trade slaves to settle debts. Clearly, the abolition of
slavery would have exacted too steep an economic price for Washington to contemplate serious action. A month later Washington made a comment that narrowed the
scope of his possible action: “It is well known that the expensive mansion in which
I am, as it were, involuntarily compelled to live will admit of no diminution of my
income.”29 In other words, for all his rhetorical objections to slavery, Washington
found it impossible to wean himself away from the income it produced. Habituated
to proﬂigate spending and a baronial lifestyle, he was in no position to act forcefully
on his principled opposition to slavery until the very end of his life.
It has long been debated whether Washington’s growing aversion to slavery resulted from moral scruples or from a sense that slavery was a bad economic bargain,
in which masters paid more for slaves’ upkeep than they reaped in proﬁt from their
labor. The latter problem weighed on him in the mid-1780s, when the failure of his
corn crop, the principal food for his slaves, slashed the proﬁtability of his opera-

Devil’s Bargain r! 491

tions. Though he probably never read it, Washington would have agreed with Adam
Smith’s theory in The Wealth of Nations (1776) that slavery was a backward system
because workers lacked economic incentives to improve performance. Slavery grew
especially inefﬁcient for Washington after he switched from labor-intensive tobacco
cultivation to grain production, leaving him with surplus hands. In February 1786
he sat down in his study to tote up the number of slaves at his ﬁve farms and came
up with a ﬁgure of 216. He must have been alarmed to discover that the number of
slave children had risen to a startling 92, or nearly half the slaves, a ﬁgure that guaranteed that his slave population would burgeon from natural increase.
Whenever Washington discussed slavery with other planters, the inefﬁciency of
the system dominated discussion, whereas with Lafayette, Washington sounded as
if he were motivated purely by humanitarian concerns. Writing to Mercer in late
1786, he indicated that he felt burdened by more slaves than he could proﬁtably
employ: “For this species of property, I have no predilection nor any urgent call,
being already overstocked with some kind of it.”30 He haggled with Mercer over
settling money owed to him and expressed his willingness to take six male slaves
in exchange for three hundred pounds of debt. Mercer evidently declined, because
Washington replied, “I am perfectly satisﬁed with your determination respecting
the Negroes. The money will be inﬁnitely more agreeable to me than property of
that sort.”31 Writing to Henry Lee, Jr., on February 4, 1787, Washington again announced that he was “in a great degree principled against increasing my number of
slaves”; then in the next breath, he told Lee to buy him a slave, a bricklayer, whose
sale was advertised in the newspaper.32 Washington declared he would drop the deal
if the slave had a family and refused to be separated. In 1788 Washington accepted
another thirty-three slaves at Mount Vernon in settlement of a debt related to the
estate of Martha’s brother Bartholomew Dandridge.
In charting Washington’s conﬂicting statements about slavery after the Revolution, one begins to sense that he had developed a split personality on the issue. On
the one hand, his views still reﬂected his acquisitive prewar personality that had few,
if any, ethical qualms about slavery. His business behavior had always been his least
attractive side, showing the imprint of early hardship. On the other hand, another
part of his personality reﬂected the countless years of conversations with Lafayette,
Laurens, Hamilton, and other young aides inﬂamed by Revolutionary ideals, when
he was headquartered in the North and uprooted from the southern plantation culture. With a politician’s instinct, Washington spoke to different people in different
voices. When addressing other Virginia planters, he spoke in the cold, hard voice
of practicality, whereas when dealing with Revolutionary comrades, he blossomed
into an altruist.
Nothing better illustrated his humanitarian views on slavery than a famous

49 2

r! The Statesm a n

statement he made to David Humphreys, the young New England poet who resided at Mount Vernon while working on his authorized biography. At some point
in 1788 or early 1789, Washington made an eloquent, if self-serving, statement—
Humphreys may have prettied it up—expressing qualms about slavery and the paternalistic compromises he had forged over the issue: “The unfortunate condition
of the persons whose labor in part I employed has been the only unavoidable subject of regret. To make the adults among them as easy and as comfortable in their
circumstances as their actual state of ignorance and improvidence would admit,
and to lay a foundation to prepare the rising generation for a destiny different from
that in which they were born, afforded some satisfaction to my mind and could
not, I hoped, be displeasing to the justice of the Creator.”33 The passage makes plain
that guilt tugged at Washington’s mind as he struggled to square slavery with his
religious beliefs. The question remains: Did he really make life for the adult slaves
“as easy and as comfortable” as possible and prepare the slave children for a different destiny?
Whether from genuine concern or from patent self-interest, Washington prided
himself on his treatment of his slaves: “It has always been my aim to feed and clothe
[the slaves] well and be careful of them in sickness.”34 While we have no proof that
Washington wished to educate his slaves, we do know that Lund Washington’s wife,
Elizabeth, a devout woman, taught slaves to read and distributed Bibles among
them—an activity that would have been considered taboo on many plantations.
There is no proof that Washington took sexual advantage of his slaves, although
one French visitor noted that many house servants were mulattoes, “some of whom
have kinky hair still but skin as light as ours.”35
In recent years a controversy has raged as to whether Washington might have
fathered a mulatto slave named West Ford, who was born in the immediate aftermath of the Revolutionary War and bore a vague resemblance to the Washington
clan. The controversy ﬁrst surfaced in 1940 but gained a new lease on life in 1998,
when DNA tests strongly pointed to Thomas Jefferson as having had children with
his slave Sally Hemings. This dramatic discovery lent fresh credence to the oral history of mixed-race families that claimed direct descent from America’s slaveholding
founders.
The son of a slave named Venus, West Ford was owned by Washington’s brother
Jack and his wife, Hannah, and grew up on their plantation, Bushﬁeld, in Westmoreland County. When Hannah died around 1801, she singled out West Ford as
the only slave to receive his freedom when he reached twenty-one. Ford’s privileged
status was further conﬁrmed when Jack and Hannah’s son Bushrod, who would
inherit Mount Vernon, gave him 160 acres adjoining the estate. Beyond such undeniable evidence of partiality, legend passed down through two branches of Ford

Devil’s Bargain r! 493

descendants that Venus had identiﬁed George Washington as the little boy’s father
and that he had attended church with Washington and even gone hunting and riding with him.
While historians have learned not to repudiate such stories with knee-jerk rigidity, George Washington’s paternity of West Ford seems highly doubtful. The notion that he might have met and impregnated Venus during a trip that her mistress,
Hannah, made to Mount Vernon seems unlikely. (Washington didn’t visit Bushﬁeld
during the years in question.) Where the Sally Hemings affair was exposed during Jefferson’s lifetime and her son Madison later published a memoir about it,
the West Ford story slumbered suspiciously for a century and a half. With Mount
Vernon invaded by visitors after the Revolutionary War, Washington constantly regretted his lack of privacy, and he would not likely have gambled his vaunted, hardearned reputation by sleeping with a visiting slave. There is also the problem that
Washington was likely sterile, although the problem with having children may have
come from Martha. Perhaps the most compelling evidence against Washington being West Ford’s father is that, in this abundantly documented life, not a single contemporary ever alluded to his having this mulatto child around him. Nor is there a
single reference to Venus or West Ford in his voluminous papers. By contrast, one
notes how frequently the ubiquitous Billy Lee pops up in Washington’s papers or
in contemporary accounts. Had the decorous Washington fathered West Ford, he
most certainly would not have ﬂaunted this lapse by taking him to church or riding
to hounds with him. It is also hard to believe that Washington’s malicious political
enemies during his presidency would not have dredged up this damaging episode
to discredit him. The most likely explanation of West Ford’s singular status is that
he was sired by Jack Washington or one of his three sons, Bushrod, Corbin, or William Augustine.
Washington’s most commendable side was the respect he accorded to slave
marriages, which enjoyed no standing under Virginia law. In April 1787, needing a
bricklayer, he bought a slave named Neptune from a John Lawson. When Neptune
showed up at Mount Vernon, Washington was dismayed to learn that he was distraught at being separated from his wife. Washington at once informed Lawson that
he was “unwilling to hurt the feelings of anyone. I shall therefore, if agreeable to
you, keep him a while to see if I can reconcile him to the separation (seeing her now
and then), in which case I will purchase him; if not, I will send him back.”36 Taking
matters into his own hands, Neptune escaped from Mount Vernon and returned
to Lawson’s plantation and a reunion with his wife. Interestingly enough, Neptune
wasn’t punished for this misbehavior and agreed to a compromise whereby he was
hired out to Washington on a monthly basis.
The most striking case of Washington’s respect for the inner life of slaves was

494

r! The Statesm a n

his constant solicitude for Billy Lee, whom he endowed with the fancy title “Valet
de Chambre” after the war.37 Lee may be the dark-skinned slave standing off in the
shadows of Edward Savage’s famous painting The Washington Family, completed
during the 1790s. In the group portrait, Washington sits at a table with Martha, unfurling a map of the new federal city of Washington, while Nelly and Washy stand
beside them. Off to the right, the nameless slave is a digniﬁed presence in a gray
jacket with one hand thrust into a red waistcoat, his black hair falling straight over
his collar. If Lee is the slave depicted, it would certainly attest to his special place in
the Washington household.
During the war Lee had entered into a romantic liaison with Margaret Thomas,
a free black or mulatto cook on Washington’s staff, and they considered themselves
married. Six months after returning to Mount Vernon, Lee sank into a funk because of his separation from Thomas, who resided in Philadelphia. Under prodding from Lee, Washington agreed to reunite them. The all-powerful Washington
didn’t care for Thomas but submitted to the pleas of the one slave he found it hard
to deny. Contacting his Philadelphia friend Clement Biddle, he laid out the situation, explaining that Margaret Thomas had been “in an inﬁrm state of health for
some time and I had conceived that the connection between them had ceased, but
I am mistaken. They are both applying to me to get her here, and tho[ugh] I never
wished to see her more, yet I cannot refuse his request (if it can be complied with
on reasonable terms) as he has lived with me so long and followed my fortunes
through the war with ﬁdelity.”38 Washington asked Biddle to track down Thomas,
then living with a free black couple, Isaac and Hannah Sills, who also worked as
cooks in Philadelphia. Biddle was instructed to pay Thomas’s passage to Virginia
by coach or ship. We don’t know what happened to Margaret Thomas, and no evidence exists that she ever made it to Mount Vernon. Without question, a free black
or mulatto woman would have dreaded traveling alone to a slave state such as Virginia, even under the auspices of George Washington. At the very least, as a Mount
Vernon cook, she would have been forced to live and work with slaves, while retaining the rights of a free person—hardly a comfortable situation for all involved. One
wonders exactly how Washington planned to negotiate this delicate situation. Did
he expect Billy Lee to continue as a slave while married to a resident cook and free
woman? And how would the other Mount Vernon slaves have reacted to the subversive presence of a free woman of color, wedded to Washington’s favorite slave?
What we do know is that, by the standards of master-slave relationships, Washington remained uncommonly attentive toward Billy Lee. In April 1785 he was surveying land with Lee, who was carrying one of the chains when he slipped and
broke his knee, an injury so severe that Washington had to order a sled to transport
him home. Three years later Lee tripped again and broke the second knee, turning

Devil’s Bargain r! 495

him into a cripple. We know that Lee had an alcohol problem, but we don’t know
whether it was the cause or an effect of these injuries. When two broken knees left
Lee incapacitated, Washington converted him into a cobbler and sometime overseer of other slaves. In later years the outgoing Lee was reputedly a loquacious storyteller as he greeted veterans and exhibited his affection for Washington. Despite
his servitude, he reminisced nostalgically about the war, even wearing a cocked hat
to emphasize his earlier service. Of course, it is impossible to know, as Lee rambled
on, what obscure hurts he concealed at being denied the status of a full-ﬂedged
soldier.
One also wonders to what extent Washington’s attachment to Lee inﬂuenced his
later determination to emancipate his slaves. His proximity to a single slave during
many years of war must have made it harder for him to believe that slaves were inferior beings and that their bondage could be justiﬁed. Lee was not only an expert
hunter and horseman but also an energetic raconteur with a vibrant personality
and rich emotional life that shines through in the smattering of stories about him.
On the other hand, there’s no sense that Washington conﬁded in Lee or treated him
as anything like a peer.
While Washington was never sadistic or abusive toward slaves, he could be a
demanding boss with minimal patience for error. When English farmer Richard
Parkinson visited Virginia in 1798, he picked up scuttlebutt from local planters
that Washington “treated [his slaves] with more severity than any other man.”39
Washington’s temperamental outbursts likely stemmed in part from his unrelenting money problems. He also suffered from a conceptual blind spot about slavery,
tending to regard it as a fair economic exchange: he clothed and fed his workers,
and “in return, I expect such labor as they ought to render.”40 He could never seem
to understand why his slaves might regard this tacit bargain as preposterous. Any
slaves who shirked work, he believed, were cheating him, and he wouldn’t stand for
it. In 1785 he conducted a frosty exchange with a slave whose arm was injured and
in a sling. Washington didn’t see why the man couldn’t work. Grasping a rake in
one hand and thrusting the other in his pocket, he proceeded to demonstrate onehanded raking. “See how I do it,” Washington said. “I have one hand in my pocket
and with the other I work. If you can use your hand to eat, why can’t you use it
to work?”41 Similarly, Washington expected pregnant women and elderly slaves to
work, albeit at less strenuous jobs closer to home.
So intent was Washington on extracting the full measure of work from slaves
that he could be shockingly oblivious to their hardships. Perhaps the most agonizing work at Mount Vernon involved reclaiming swamps. Even in the iciest weather
Washington didn’t relax his grip or halt this grueling outdoor labor. In January and
February 1788 eastern Virginia suffered through a winter so frigid that the Potomac

49 6

r! The Statesm a n

froze for ﬁve weeks and Mount Vernon lay “locked fast by ice,” as Washington told
Henry Knox.42 As the temperature dipped to ten degrees, Washington often found
it too cold to attend meetings away from home. Nevertheless, his hands spent more
than a week taking ice from the frozen river and packing it into the icehouse.
During this deep freeze Washington refused to cancel any slave activities, and
the heavy-duty ﬁeld work went on unabated. On January 3 he noted that the thermometer stood at twenty-ﬁve degrees as he made the chilly rounds of his plantations. Nevertheless everyone was outdoors working. At Dogue Run, he wrote, “the
women began to hoe the swamp they had grubbed in order to prepare it for sowing in the spring with grain and grass seeds.” At Muddy Hole, “the women, after
having threshed out the peas, went about the fencing.” And at another farm, “the
women were taking up and thinning the trees in the swamp, which they had before
grubbed.”43 It is hard to imagine more brutal manual labor than women pulling up
tree stumps in icy swamps in record-setting cold, but Washington seems not to have
found this inhuman scene objectionable and in no way diminished the work. On
February 5 the notably rugged Washington informed Knox that “the air of this day
is amongst the keenest I ever recollect to have felt.”44 When he made the circuit of
his farms the next morning, he introduced an unusual notation: “Rid out, but ﬁnding the cold disagreeable, I returned.”45 Despite this ﬁerce cold, with nine inches of
snow covering the ground, Washington kept everyone busy in the ﬁelds and noted
approvingly in his diary, “Hands of all the places (except the men) working in the
new ground” at the mansion house.46 It was as if Washington feared that even the
slightest concession would lead to a raft of others, so he insisted on getting the daily
quota of work from his slaves.
Like all other plantation owners, Washington had become so accustomed to
slavery that the bizarre began to seem normal. He had always kept a strict separation between his social and professional lives and for a long time went foxhunting
and toured his farms on separate days. Then on January 4, 1786, he began to mix
these two incompatible tasks, riding to hounds and visiting ﬁeld hands at the same
time. “After breakfast, I rid by the places where my Muddy Hole and Ferry people
were clearing,” he wrote in his diary. “Thence to the [grist] mill and Dogue Run
plantations and, having the hounds with me, in passing from the latter toward
Muddy Hole plantation, I found a fox, which, after dragging him some distance
and running him hard for near an hour, was killed by the cross road in front of the
house.”47 Thereafter he routinely combined foxhunting with tours of the outlying
slave plantations. One can only imagine what thoughts passed through the minds
of ﬁeld hands who wearily lifted their heads from stoop labor, only to see the jolly
master and his friends careering past them in the wintry landscape behind a pack
of foxhunting hounds.

ch ap ter fort y-one

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

T he Ruins of the Past

Wh e n Wa sh i ngt on c onse n t e d i n 17 83 to serve as ﬁrst president of the
Order of the Cincinnati, he imagined himself signing on to a fraternal organization that was charitable in intent and incontrovertibly good. So convinced was he
of its virtue that he did not agonize over becoming president the way he mulled
over comparable decisions in his life. Though not a founder of the group, he felt a
fraternal camaraderie with his fellow ofﬁcers and cottoned to the idea of perpetuating their comradeship. He even offered a ﬁve-hundred-dollar gift to invigorate the
Cincinnati. Distracted by other matters, he didn’t heed at ﬁrst the rancorous debates brewing over the organization’s character. “I was conscious that my own proceedings on that subject were immaculate,” he later declared a shade defensively.1
As shown by the slavery issue, Washington didn’t wish to be ensnared in political
controversy or do anything that might mar his hard-won image as the incarnation
of national unity.
But the formation of a hereditary society, with membership inherited through
eldest sons, awakened the hostility toward aristocracy bred by the Revolution.
Blasted as elitist, the society raised the dread specter of a military caste that might
dominate American political life. That Washington lacked a male heir spared him
no criticism. After all, the society’s very name paid tribute to his ineffable mystique.
In hunting down monarchical plots, the new nation displayed an active, often paranoid imagination. In later years Jefferson stated that it had “always been believed”
that some army ofﬁcers, especially Steuben and Knox, had offered a crown to Washington and started the Cincinnati only when he rejected it, hoping the hereditary
order would “be engrafted into the future frame of government and placing Wash-

49 8

r! The Statesm a n

ington still at the head.”2 There was no evidence whatsoever that Steuben and Knox
ever contemplated such an offer.
When Benjamin Franklin’s daughter transmitted to him press reports about the
new society, he replied that he could understand the Chinese practice of honoring
one’s parents, who after all had achieved something. To honor descendants, however, merely from the accident of biology, was “not only groundless and absurd but
often hurtful to that posterity.” Any sort of hereditary society, he declared, would
stand “in direct opposition to the solemnly declared sense” of the new country.3
John Adams also went on the warpath against the Cincinnati, damning the group
as “the deepest piece of cunning yet attempted . . . the ﬁrst step taken to deface the
beauty of our temple of liberty.”4
No sooner had Washington announced the ﬁrst national meeting, to be held
in Philadelphia in May 1784, than he was taken aback by angry rumbles about the
hereditary requirement, an early inkling of the boisterous democratic tendencies
that would reshape the country and challenge the preeminence of the former ofﬁcer corps. Henry Knox, the society’s ﬁrst secretary general, summed up this dissent for Washington: “The idea is that it has been created by a foreign inﬂuence in
order to change our forms of government.”5 Even Lafayette in Paris, heading the
French chapter, wound up embroiled in conﬂict: “Most of the Americans here are
indecently violent against our association . . . [John] Jay, [John] Adams, and all the
others warmly blame the army.”6 For Washington, it was a painful contretemps:
his ﬁrst public act since the war had backﬁred, and it engulfed him in a ﬂaming
controversy. Since the group’s power derived largely from its identiﬁcation with
Washington, he lacked the option of staying aloof and remaining deaf to this rising
storm of criticism.
Always jealous of his reputation for republican purity, Washington hated to
have his integrity questioned. To defuse the controversy, he was eager to eliminate
the group’s more odious features. As he told Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., “If we cannot
convince the people that their fears are ill-founded, we should (at least in a degree)
yield to them and not suffer that which was intended for the best of purposes to
produce a bad one which will be the consequence of divisions.”7 As was his wont, he
responded to criticism by soliciting disparate opinions. He turned to Jefferson, who
predictably faulted the group for relying on “preeminence by birth” and also worried that some future president of the Cincinnati might “adopt a more mistaken
road to glory.”8
By the time of the Philadelphia meeting, Washington was eager to respond to
criticism swirling around the group. Some of it he thought maliciously exaggerated “by designing men to work their own purposes upon terriﬁed imaginations,”
but he acknowledged the genuine kernel of discontent.9 In his inaugural speech,

The Ruins of the Past r! 49 9

he stated categorically that the Society of the Cincinnati must mend its ways. In
notes prepared for the speech, he listed his reform agenda: “Strike out every word,
sentence, and clause which has a political tendency. Discontinue the hereditary part
in all its connections . . . Admit no more honorary members into the society. Reject
subscriptions or donations from every person who is not a citizen of the United
States.”10 Delivering this blunt message, the ordinarily circumspect Washington was
ﬁery and outspoken. As one of those present, Winthrop Sargent, observed, “In a
very long speech, and with much warmth and agitation, he expressed himself on all
the parts of the institution deemed exceptionable and reiterated his determination
to vacate his place in the society, if it could not be accommodated to the feeling and
pleasure of the several states.”11
Washington’s performance in Philadelphia showed that he could be a forceful
orator who spoke at length and with passion if he wanted to. That he often failed to
do so was because he preferred to keep his own counsel and reveal only a tiny portion of his thoughts, keeping his options open. He knew his power before a crowd
of people, as shown during the Newburgh uprising, and could turn on the spigot of
his oratory at will. The speech also showed Washington’s awareness of his unique
political standing—and his willingness to exploit it by threatening to resign if objectionable traits of the Cincinnati were not removed. His emotional comments
also suggest extreme irritation at being dragged into the unwelcome glare of public
controversy. The methodical Washington didn’t like to be taken by surprise. The
French engineer Pierre-Charles L’Enfant had designed for the society an insignia
with a bald eagle, hung from a pale blue and white ribbon. When French ofﬁcers
gave Washington this medal, adorned with diamonds and emeralds, he secreted it
in a drawer and never wore it for fear of being branded a pseudoroyalist.
Although he agreed to serve a three-year term as president, he later said that it
was “much against my inclination,” a way to salve any wounded feelings among his
fellow ofﬁcers.12 His success in purging the society of its disputed features was only
partial. He wanted the group to discard national meetings and limit assemblies to
state chapters, which, among other things, would lower his own high-proﬁle connection with it. Openly opposing him, delegates voted to retain the general gatherings, and several state chapters refused to accept the alterations adopted at the
national meeting, leaving the hereditary feature intact. If Washington had shown
political agility in tackling the group’s problems and juggling conﬂicting demands,
he had also seen that he couldn’t determine the ﬁnal outcome and was reluctant to
be party to something beyond his control.
Having quieted the uproar temporarily, Washington knew that “the jealousies
of the people are rather asleep than removed on this occasion.”13 Had it not been for
his deep sense of solidarity with American and French ofﬁcers and a respect for the

50 0

r! The Statesm a n

group’s laudable work for widows and orphans, Washington probably would have
severed his ties with the Cincinnati and proposed its abolition. The intransigence
of state societies in contesting reforms only hardened his resolve to insulate himself from them. He devised a compromise whereby he remained a ﬁgurehead and
signed ofﬁcial forms, while keeping a self-protective distance, planning all the while
to step down as president before the next general meeting in 1787.
A far happier association was with the Masons. Whatever conspiracy theories
later circulated about the group, the brotherhood provoked no suspicions in lateeighteenth-century America, and Washington seldom missed a chance to salute
their lodges. The group’s soaring language, universal optimism, and good fellowship appealed to him. When he was sent Masonic ornaments late in the war, he
recast the struggle in Masonic imagery, saying that all praise was due “to the Grand
Architect of the Universe, who did not see ﬁt to suffer his superstructures and justice
to be subjected to the ambition of the princes of this world.”14 In June 1784 he was
inducted into the Alexandria lodge as an honorary member, which gave him dual
membership there and in the Fredericksburg lodge. Later elevated to master of the
Alexandria lodge, he earned the distinction of being the only Mason to hold this
post while simultaneously serving as president of the United States. Where he had
kept a wary attitude toward the Cincinnati, he proudly embraced Masonic rituals.
When an elderly resident of Alexandria, William Ramsay, was buried in 1785, Washington noted in his diary that he had not only attended the funeral but “walked in
procession as a free mason, Mr. Ramsay in his lifetime being one and now buried
with the ceremonies and honors due to one.”15
In 1785 Washington formed an institutional tie that led him ineluctably back
into national politics. His western trip the previous autumn had rekindled his fervent faith in the Potomac River as the gateway to America’s interior. After the trip
he lobbied Virginia governor Benjamin Harrison to form a company that would
make the Potomac, with its stony obstructions, waterfalls, and rapids, navigable
to the headwaters of the Ohio. Completing the linkage would require additional
canals, locks, and portages. However partial he was to the Potomac, Washington
also held out the possibility of extending the James River. He pressed Madison and
others in the Virginia House of Delegates to champion the navigation project, then
took up the same cause with Maryland legislators in Annapolis. Since Virginia and
Maryland shared rights to the Potomac, any project required the joint approval of
both states. “It is now near 12 at night,” an exhausted Washington wrote to Madison
from Annapolis on December 28, “and I am writing with an aching head, having
been constantly employed in this business since the 22nd without assistance from
my colleagues.”16 Madison was agog at Washington’s stamina. “The earnestness
with which he espouses the undertaking is hardly to be described,” he remarked to

The Ruins of the Past r! 501

Jefferson, “and shows that a mind like his, capable of grand views . . . cannot bear
a vacancy.”17
Washington’s advocacy of the Potomac project united a private motivation (to
enhance the wealth of western landowners such as himself) with a political motivation (to bind western settlers to the United States and forge a national identity). He
was disturbed by ongoing clashes between settlers and Indians but thought it fruitless to try to stem the restless droves of immigrants pushing ever farther westward.
Although the government couldn’t halt this tide, it could guide it into constructive
channels. “The spirit of emigration is great,” he told Richard Henry Lee. “People
have got impatient and tho[ugh] you cannot stop the road, it is yet in your power
to mark the way.”18
Washington became something of a monomaniac about the Potomac River project, and more than one Mount Vernon visitor was trapped in the talons of this obsession. When Elkanah Watson stayed there in January 1785, he described the inland
navigation scheme as Washington’s “constant and favorite theme.”19 Waving away
questions about the Revolutionary War and dwelling compulsively on the river project, Washington computed the distances from Tidewater Virginia to spots in the interior. “Hearing little else for two days from the persuasive tongue of the great man,”
wrote Watson, “I confess completely infected me with the canal mania.”20
In early January 1785 Virginia and Maryland decided to survey the two potential waterways to the Ohio Country and incorporated a pair of private companies,
the Potomac River Company and the James River Company, to extend those rivers
into the interior. To ﬁnance this extensive work, the legislatures would allow entrepreneurs to charge tolls on the waterways. Imagining that the companies would
be quite lucrative, Washington had no qualms about businessmen booking large
proﬁts as long as their work served the public weal and provided a model for future
government action.
While Washington rejoiced over his legislative victories, the state of Virginia
threw him into a profound dilemma by deeding him a gift of ﬁfty shares of Potomac River Company stock and one hundred shares of James River Company stock
to recognize his services to the state. Having sacriﬁced a salary throughout the war,
Washington was not about to accept payment now; nor did he want to seem vain
or offend his fellow Virginians by brusquely dismissing their kind gesture. He admitted to Governor Harrison that “no circumstance has happened to me since I
left the walks of public life, which has so much embarrassed me.” If he spurned the
gift, he feared, people would think “an ostentatious display of disinterestedness or
public virtue was the source of the refusal.” On the other hand, he wanted to remain
free to articulate his views without arousing suspicions that “sinister motives had
the smallest inﬂuence in the suggestion.”21 He valued his reputation for integrity,

502

r! The Statesm a n

calling it “the principal thing which is laudable in my conduct.”22 Noting that such
“gratuitous gifts are made in other countries,” Washington wanted to establish a
new benchmark for the behavior of public ﬁgures in America and eliminate petty
or venal motives.23
Perplexed, Washington sent a ﬂurry of letters to conﬁdants, asking how to
handle the unwanted gift. Beleaguered by money problems at Mount Vernon, he
nevertheless tried to project the cavalier image of an afﬂuent planter who had far
more money than he needed. Throughout his life he cherished the pose of noblesse
oblige in public service, even if he could scarcely afford it. Referring to his lack
of children, he told Henry Knox airily, “I have nobody to provide for and I have
enough to support me through life in the plain and easy style in which I mean to
spend the remainder of my days.”24 In fact, Washington had insufﬁcient money to
support himself, his wards, and his slaves, and his style of life was scarcely plain
and easy. He came up with an enlightened solution: he would hold the gift shares
in trust for public education, possibly for the creation of “two charity schools, one
on each river for the education and support of the children of the poor and indigent,” especially those who had lost fathers in the war.25 The ﬁnal disposition of the
money was deferred for many years.
To iron out differences between Virginia and Maryland over Potomac navigation, Washington presided over an interstate conference at Mount Vernon in
1785. He was also elected president of the Potomac River Company, for which he
tirelessly proselytized. In early August he climbed into a canoe and undertook
the ﬁrst of his periodic inspection tours of the Potomac, investigating submerged
obstacles at Seneca Falls and Shenandoah Falls by personally shooting the rapids.
He was also involved in hiring a European superintendent and dozens of indentured servants to build the canals and locks. Soon teams of slaves went to work,
their heads shaved to make it more difﬁcult for them to escape without detection.
Washington’s ambition was huge: the lock canal constructed around Great Falls
alone would rank as the biggest civil engineering project in eighteenth-century
America. To carve open the interior, the Virginia legislature authorized the building of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, which would connect the Potomac and
Ohio rivers, and the Kanawha Canal, linking the James with the Great Kanawha
River in western Virginia. Both projects took decades to reach fruition.
A determined man, George Washington reveled in having overcome great
skepticism to establish the Potomac River Company. When Robert Hunter visited
Mount Vernon in November, he noticed that his host engaged in uncharacteristic
gloating: “The general sent the bottle about pretty freely after dinner and gave ‘Success to the navigation of the Potomac’ for his toast, which he has very much [at]
heart, and when ﬁnished will, I suppose, be the ﬁrst river in the world . . . He is

The Ruins of the Past r! 503

quite pleased at the idea of the Baltimore merchants laughing at him and saying it
was a ridiculous plan and would never succeed.”26
The plan to extend navigation of the Potomac inﬂuenced American history in
ways that far transcended the narrow matter of commercial navigation. It created a
set of practical problems that could be solved only by cooperation between Virginia
and Maryland, setting a pattern for a seminal interstate conference at Annapolis
in September 1786 and indeed the Constitutional Convention itself in 1787. Coordinating the efforts of two states conﬁrmed Washington’s continental perspective
and sense of the irreparable harm that could be done by squabbling among states
unconstrained by an effective national government. When Edward Savage painted
The Washington Family, he shrewdly made the Potomac River, wending its way west
in the background, a central element of the composition. Washington continued to
tout the Potomac as “the great avenue into the western country . . . which promises
to afford a capacious asylum for the poor and persecuted of the earth.”27 The Potomac River Company never lived up to these grandiose expectations: in the nineteenth century it went bankrupt, having penetrated no farther than Cumberland in
the foothills of the Allegheny Mountains. But its real value in American politics had
long since been realized.

For a l l t h e hope f u l n e s s of his postwar life, Washington retained wistful
recollections about his prewar existence, especially his relationship with George
William and Sally Fairfax. Wartime duties had precluded him from acting as caretaker of Belvoir, and he was alarmed to hear rumors as early as 1778 that the estate
was “verging fast to destruction.”28 Before the war the Fairfaxes had returned to
England to follow a suit in Chancery, which involved a sizable estate left to George
William by a relative; the case degenerated into a ghastly, never-ending Dickensian
donnybrook. George William told Washington in August 1778 that the case was “as
far from a conclusion as ever, owing to the villainy of my solicitor.”29 Lacking the
income expected from the suit’s resolution and deprived of any money from Virginia, the hitherto rich couple had to retrench drastically. They were both broken in
health and had bought a small cottage near Bath so they could take the spa waters.
There a chastened General John Burgoyne, after his Saratoga defeat, sought out the
couple and hand-delivered a personal letter from General George Washington.
During the last year of the war, Belvoir had been severely damaged by ﬁre, but
for more than a year Washington could neither ﬁnd the time nor muster the nerve
to visit it. Then in late January 1785 he made a midwinter visit and grew awash in
nostalgia. On February 27 he sent a heartfelt letter to George William in which he
described the ravages visited upon their beloved Belvoir:

504

r! The Statesm a n
I took a ride there the other day to visit the ruins—and ruins indeed they are. The
dwelling house and the two brick buildings in front underwent the ravages of the
ﬁre; the walls of which are very much injured. The other houses are sinking under
the depredation of time and inattention and I believe are now scarcely worth repairing. In a word, the whole are, or very soon will be, a heap of ruin. When I viewed
them—when I considered that the happiest moments of my life had been spent
there—when I could not trace a room in the house (now all rubbish) that did not
bring to my mind the recollection of pleasing scenes, I was obliged to ﬂy from them
and came home with painful sensations and sorrowing for the contrast.30

Whenever he gazed longingly toward Belvoir, he admitted, he wished that George
William and Sally Fairfax would return to America and rebuild their residence while
staying at Mount Vernon. He added that Martha joined him in this fervent wish.
This letter is remarkable in two ways. Washington states that the happiest moments of his life were spent not with his wife but with George William and Sally
Fairfax, although one suspects he really had Sally in mind. Does the letter suggest
that George William knew of the romantic liaison between his wife and Washington? Or does it tell us that their relationship was more an affectionate friendship than an adulterous affair, enabling Washington to refer to it with complete
safety? Perhaps it conﬁrms that Washington’s fondness for Sally Fairfax had been a
youthful dalliance that everyone now recognized as such. We will never know the
full truth of this tantalizing but ﬁnally murky story. The letter is also notable in
showing us how incurably sentimental Washington was beneath the surface—he
could experience an eruption of memories so overpowering that he had to ﬂee the
scene.
In reply, George William Fairfax talked of the picturesque valley of dairy farms
in which he and Sally lived and asserted they were too old to contemplate a return
to America. Sally had pored over Washington’s letter with great care, and his description of the ride to Belvoir had provoked an equally strong response in her.
“Your pathetic description of the ruin of Belvoir House produced many tears and
sighs from the former mistress of it,” wrote George William—doubtless what Washington yearned to hear.31 Sally volunteered to send Washington seeds for trees and
shrubs for Mount Vernon, and he reacted with typical gallantry, reassuring George
William that “while my attentions are bestowed on the nurture of [the seeds], it
would, if anything was necessary to do it, remind me of the happy moments I have
spent in conversations on this and other subjects with that lady at Belvoir.”32 So
Washington again openly alluded to his special relationship with Sally Fairfax without fearing repercussions. After years of precarious health, George William Fairfax
died on April 3, 1787. By that point the Constitutional Convention was looming,

The Ruins of the Past r! 505

and Washington, sidetracked by political business, declined to act as American executor of his friend’s estate.
The themes of love and marriage were often on Washington’s mind after the
war. Before it ended, Lund Washington had sounded him out on the prospective
marriage of Jacky Custis’s widow, Eleanor Calvert Custis, to Dr. David Stuart. Washington customarily refrained from giving advice in such situations because if he
supported it, he might push a couple into an unwanted marriage, but if he opposed
it, the young couple would blithely ignore him anyway. Nevertheless he went on to
say that if Eleanor asked him, he would counsel her thus: “I wish you would make
a prudent choice, to do which many considerations are necessary: such as the family and connections of the man, his fortune (which is not the most essential in my
eye), the line of conduct he has observed, and disposition and frame of his mind.
You should consider what prospect there is of his proving kind and affectionate to
you; just, generous, and attentive to your children; and how far his connections will
be agreeable to you.”33 Rather glaringly absent from this eminently reasonable list
is romance—perhaps the sole ingredient lacking in Washington’s otherwise happy,
satisfying match with Martha. At the same time, he knew that genuine friendship
formed the foundation of a marriage, and this, at the very least, he had found in
abundance with his wife.
Martha viewed marriage in a similarly pragmatic light. When her niece Fanny
contemplated marriage to George Augustine Washington, Martha tried to coach
her in sizing up marital prospects. She recommended that Fanny look at a man’s
character and worldly prospects—whether he was honest, upright, hardworking,
and likely to be a good provider. She didn’t mention looks or charm or compatibility or any of the other romantic prerequisites that might preoccupy a modern
woman.
When Fanny and George Augustine decided to get married, the Washingtons
were jubilant about the match of these two young favorites. Before the October
1785 wedding, Washington paid for his nephew to spend time in the West Indies
in an attempt to repair his health. Although the Washingtons invited the young
couple to share the Mount Vernon mansion with them, the suggestion came loaded
with one big caveat. As Washington told Lund, the young couple had been urged
to “make this house their home till the squalling and trouble of children might become disagreeable.”34 By this point, the Washingtons had probably had their ﬁll of
the responsibility of caring for children.
Just as Washington’s postwar years were touched with many intimations of
mortality, so Martha had many somber occasions to reﬂect on life’s brevity. In
April 1785 an express messenger arrived at Mount Vernon bearing a double dose of
dreadful news for her: her mother, seventy-ﬁve-year-old Frances Dandridge, and

50 6

r! The Statesm a n

her last surviving brother, forty-eight-year-old Judge Bartholomew Dandridge, had
died within nine days of each other. These deaths lengthened the already-long list
of family losses Martha had endured, starting with the demise of her ﬁrst husband
and all four of her children. The death of her younger brother meant that, among
her seven siblings, only her youngest sister, Betsy, was still alive. Like the Washingtons, the Dandridge clan seemed doomed to suffer untimely deaths.
The following year George Washington suffered two tremendous blows. He had
always delighted in the bright young men in his military family, often ﬁnding it
easier to befriend these protégés than his peers, and he had felt special warmth for
Lieutenant Colonel Tench Tilghman, who handled his business matters in Baltimore. “I have often repeated to you that there are few men in the world to whom
I am more sincerely attached by inclination than I am to you,” Washington had
assured him.35 Genial and unassuming, Tilghman had entered fully into Washington’s conﬁdence, and the latter was grief-stricken when the younger man died at
age forty-one in April 1786. In a mighty tribute, Washington told Jefferson that his
former aide had “as fair a reputation as ever belonged to a human character,” and he
speculated that he mourned the death more keenly than anyone outside of Tilghman’s own family.36
Perhaps more consequential for America’s future was the demise of General Nathanael Greene at forty-three. Just as Washington and Greene had seen eye to eye on
war-related matters, so they had viewed the country’s postwar turmoil with similar
apprehension. Like Washington, Greene had developed a federal perspective and
feared that the total autonomy of the states would culminate in feuding and anarchy. As he warned Washington, “Many people secretly wish that every state should
be completely independent and that, as soon as our public debts are liquidated, that
Congress should be no more—a plan that would be as fatal to our interest at home
as ruinous to it abroad.”37 Unfortunately, Greene’s personal ﬁnances were in no less
disorderly a state than those of the country at large: he had accumulated such heavy
debts guaranteeing contracts for the southern army that it gave him “much pain
and preyed heavily upon my spirits.”38 He also revealed to Washington in August
1784 that for two months he had experienced a “dangerous and disagree[able] pain”
in his chest, which sounds like heart disease.39 In June 1786, while at his estate near
Savannah, Georgia, he was seized at the table with a “violent pain in his eye and
head,” followed by his death a few days later.40
Washington mourned Greene’s death for many months. Beyond personal grief,
he knew that the country had lost a man cut out for bigger things. He had counted
on Greene as a political ally and kindred spirit and said he regretted “the death of
this valuable character, especially at this crisis, when the political machine seems
pregnant with the most awful events.”41 It seems likely that, had Greene lived, Wash-

The Ruins of the Past r! 50 7

ington would have chosen him as the ﬁrst secretary of war in preference to Henry
Knox. Greene died in such dire economic straits that Washington volunteered to
pay for the education of his son, George Washington Greene. It was yet another
example of Washington’s extraordinary generosity in caring for the offspring of
friends and family, whatever his own ﬁnancial stringency.

ch ap ter fort y-t wo

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

A Masterly Hand

For a m a n w ho e m ph a si z e d h is dis c om f ort when posing for artists,
George Washington dedicated an extraordinary amount of time to having his likeness preserved for posterity. As shown by his constant attention to his papers, he
guarded his fame with vigilance. Sensitive to charges of self-promotion—charges
that seemed to ring in his ears alone—he preferred sitting for artists when he could
cite a plausible political excuse for doing so. Such was the case in the late summer of 1783, when Congress commissioned an equestrian statue of him and gave
the prestigious assignment to artist Joseph Wright, who had the perfect pedigree
to appease Washington’s strict conscience. His mother, Patience Wright, a Quaker
sculptor from Philadelphia, specialized in waxwork portraits. While mother and
son were based in wartime London, she had patented a unique form of espionage
by relaying secret messages to Benjamin Franklin and American politicians at home
through messages sealed inside her waxed heads.
After studying with Benjamin West in London, Joseph Wright returned to
America and received the coveted commission for the Washington statue. He began
with an oil portrait of the general that many deemed “a better likeness of me than
any other painter has done,” Washington conceded.1 Washington was then residing at Rocky Hill, outside Princeton, giving him time for this diversion. Protective
of his image and afraid of appearing pretentious, Washington rebuffed Wright’s
request that he don a Roman toga. As a result, the painting is plain and powerfully
realistic, showing a uniformed but unadorned Washington who eschews the standard props of power. Wright caught the weighty toll that the war years had exacted
on Washington, whose face is long, gaunt, and devoid of animation; his eyes lack

A Masterly Hand r! 50 9

sparkle or luster. The nose is thick and straight and blunter than in earlier portraits.
As Washington commented justly about Wright’s style, “His forte seems to be in
giving the distinguishing characteristics with more boldness than delicacy.”2 The
painting also pinpointed an important quirk of Washington’s face: the lazy right
eye that slid off into the corner while the left eye stared straight ahead.
To prepare for the equestrian statue, Wright crafted a life mask of Washington’s
face with plaster of paris. Cooperating with artists brought out a certain drollery in Washington, and work on the mask led to a charming comic vignette with
Martha Washington. As Washington recalled, the artist “oiled my features over,
and, placing me ﬂat upon my back upon a cot, proceeded to daub my face with
the plaster. Whilst [I was] in this ludicrous attitude, Mrs. Washington entered the
room, and, seeing my face thus overspread with the plaster, involuntarily exclaimed
[in alarm]. Her cry excited in me a disposition to smile, which gave my mouth a
slight twist . . . that is now observable in the bust which Wright afterward made.”3
Although Wright constructed the preparatory bust, he never completed the equestrian statue.
Another eminent artist with a special claim to Washington’s time was Robert
Edge Pine, who had lived near George William and Sally Fairfax in Bath, England.
A vocal supporter of American independence, Pine had consulted the Fairfaxes
about a controversial print Pine executed showing the “oppressions and calamities
of America” and portraying Washington as the country’s heroic liberator, as George
William informed Washington.4 It was a courageous action for an artist with a wife
and six daughters and earned him “so many enemies in this selﬁsh nation that he
is compelled to go to America to seek bread in his profession.”5 There was no way
Washington could reject an artist who kept alive the link with George William and
Sally Fairfax.
On April 28, 1785, Pine arrived at Mount Vernon, intending to paint Washington
for a grand sequence of works about the American Revolution. Earlier in his life,
Washington said, he had been as restive “as a colt is of the saddle” when sitting for
artists, but he was now amused at how docile he had become. “I am so hackneyed
to the touches of the painter’s pencil that I am now altogether at their beck and sit
like Patience on a monument whilst they are delineating the lines of my face.”6 Pine
spent three weeks at Mount Vernon and must have ingratiated himself with the
entire family, for Washington agreed to additional portraits of Martha, all four of
her grandchildren, and Fanny Bassett.
The most elaborate effort to capture Washington’s image was the brilliant,
painstaking work of an illustrious French sculptor. In June 1784 the Virginia legislature decided to commission a statue of Washington “of the ﬁnest marble and
best workmanship” to grace the rotunda of the new state capitol in Richmond.7

5 10

r! The Statesm a n

Governor Harrison turned to Jefferson and Franklin in Paris to identify the “most
masterly hand” for the job.8 Assuming that a European sculptor would simply work
from a painting, Harrison had Charles Willson Peale forward a full-length portrait
of Washington. This simplistic conception of the job scarcely anticipated the complex demands of the formidable genius recruited by Jefferson and Franklin: JeanAntoine Houdon, who was famous for his naturalistic style. The premier sculptor
at European courts, he asked for a colossal fee, but Jefferson bargained him down
to a thousand guineas.
Jefferson and Franklin artfully persuaded Washington to work with the French
sculptor, Jefferson saying that Houdon was “the ﬁrst statuary in the world” and had
excitedly agreed to the assignment. In case Washington didn’t comprehend the high
honor involved, Jefferson mentioned that Houdon was currently ﬁnishing a statue
of Louis XVI and had crafted a celebrated bust of Voltaire. Knowing that Houdon
worked with fanatic intensity, Jefferson thought he should prepare Washington for
the sculptor’s exhausting demands. Houdon was, Jefferson wrote, “so enthusiastically fond of being the executor of this work that he offers to go himself to America
for the purpose of forming your bust from the life, leaving all his business here in
the meantime. He thinks that being three weeks with you would sufﬁce to make
his model of plaster, with which he will return here, and the work will employ
him three years.”9 With two transatlantic crossings ahead of him and a projected
absence from Paris of six months, Houdon insisted that Jefferson take out an insurance policy on his life for that time.
Cognizant of Washington’s highly organized existence, Jefferson took a huge
risk when he told Washington that, if Franklin concurred in selecting Houdon, “we
shall send him over [at once], not having time to ask your permission and await
your answer.”10 Fortunately, Houdon’s sailing was delayed for several months due
to illness. To ensure that Washington didn’t back out, Jefferson informed him that
Houdon had turned down an assignment from Catherine the Great of Russia to
sculpt Washington, “which he considers as promising the brightest chapter of his
history.”11 In a follow-up letter, Franklin said that, since the Europeans despaired of
ever coaxing Washington across the ocean, they needed an excellent bust by Houdon to supply his place.
The only way that Washington could feel comfortable with such royal attention
was to remind everyone that he was a purely passive recipient of the honor. Writing
to Houdon, he stressed that, although the commission was “not of my seeking, I
feel the most agreeable and grateful sensations.”12 On Sunday night, October 2, 1785,
Houdon made a dramatic entrance at Mount Vernon, pulling up to the dock at
eleven p.m. Washington was already in bed when the household was roused by the
famous Frenchman, three young assistants, and an interpreter. In his diary, Wash-

A Masterly Hand r! 5 1 1

ington pointedly noted that Houdon had come from nearby Alexandria, implying
that he could easily have waited until morning instead of pouncing upon him at
night. Anyone who knew Washington’s rigid daily schedule and stern sense of decorum would have avoided this faux pas. A room was hastily prepared for these
newcomers babbling in an exotic tongue.
The conscientious Houdon had brought along calipers and, when he got to
work, proceeded to make meticulous measurements of Washington’s body. He also
asked if he could shadow Washington on his daily rounds and study his face and
movements in social interactions. During the next two weeks he even attended a
funeral with Washington and took part in the wedding of George Augustine Washington and Fanny Bassett. It reveals a good deal about Houdon’s genius that the
most expressive moment for him came when Washington ﬂared up indignantly
as he haggled over a pair of horses; always a tough bargainer, Washington thought
the other trader was asking too much. During this sudden ﬂash of anger, Houdon
thought he spied the inner steel in Washington’s nature.
Methodical in his own habits, Washington was naturally fascinated by the
systematic effort that Houdon poured into each step of the artistic process. On
October 6 the Frenchman began working on a terra-cotta bust that was likely a
preliminary step in creating the full-length sculpture. The bust may have been dried
in a Mount Vernon oven ordinarily reserved for baking. Houdon gave it as a gift
to Washington, who treasured it in his private study for the rest of his life. Many
people credited it as being the best likeness of him ever done. To the extent possible,
Houdon dispensed with artistic conventions and pared down the bust to essential
truths about Washington, making him life-size and lifelike. The sculpted face is
strong and commanding, and the skin smooth, without the crags time later carved
into the cheeks. As Washington turns his head, his shrewdly appraising eyes seem to
scan the far horizon. Washington’s expression is forceful, his determination evident
in his narrow gaze, matched by the muscular strength of his shoulders. Because his
hair isn’t ﬂuffed out at the sides, the bust accentuates the hard, lean strength of his
face. Houdon captured both the aggressive and the cautious sides of Washington,
held in perfect equipoise.
On October 10 Houdon moved on to preparing the plaster of paris for the life
mask. Washington was so riveted by this procedure that he made an extended diary
entry about it, describing how Houdon sifted the plaster until it obtained the consistency of thick cream, then mixed it with water and beat the combination with an
iron spoon. The sculptor himself covered Washington’s face with wet plaster in the
few minutes before it began to harden and inserted a pair of quills in his nostrils for
breathing. Nelly Custis never forgot her fright when she saw Washington laid out
like a corpse in a morgue:

512

r! The Statesm a n
I was only six years old at the time and perhaps should not have retained any recollection of Houdon and his visit, had I not seen the General, as I supposed, dead and
laid out on a table cover[e]d with a sheet. I was passing the white servants hall and
saw, as I thought, the corpse of one I consider[e]d my father. I went in and found the
general extended on his back on a large table, a sheet over him, except his face, on
which Houdon was engaged in putting on plaster to form the cast. Quills were in the
nostrils. I was very much alarmed until I was told that it was a bust, a likeness of the
general, and would not injure him.13

The life mask repaid the effort applied to its preparation, and Houdon proudly
called it “the most perfect reproduction of Washington’s own face.”14 Showing
Washington’s face at rest, the mask’s expression is gentle and pensive yet also powerful because of the strong cheekbones and musculature. Due to the loss of teeth on
the left side, with the attendant bone decay, Washington’s asymmetrical chin slants
down obliquely to the right.
On October 17, as abruptly as they had appeared, Houdon and his assistants
packed up their implements, marched down to the dock, and boarded Washington’s barge for the short ride to Alexandria, where they caught a stagecoach bound
for Philadelphia. Acknowledging Houdon’s tremendous investment of time, Washington praised the French sculptor “for his trouble and risk of crossing the seas.”15
During the winter, Jefferson wrote to say that Houdon had arrived safely in Paris
with the life mask, from which he would sculpt the standing statue for the Virginia
capitol. Jefferson then posed an odd question: How would Washington like to be
costumed in the sculpture? Once again Washington opted for modern dress in lieu
of a Roman toga. The manner in which he expressed this to Jefferson betrayed his
old provincial insecurity, as if he weren’t sure he was entitled to an opinion in the
artistic sphere and feared committing an error:

I have only to observe that not having a sufﬁcient knowledge in the art of sculpture
to oppose my judgment to the taste of connoisseurs, I do not desire to dictate in the
matter. On the contrary, I shall be perfectly satisﬁed with whatever may be judged
decent and proper. I should even scarcely have ventured to suggest that perhaps a
servile adherence to the garb of antiquity might not be altogether so expedient as
some little deviation in favor of the modern custom, if I had not learnt from Colo.
Humphreys that this was a circumstance hinted in conversation by Mr [Benjamin]
West to Houdon. This taste, which has been introduced in painting by West, I understand is received with applause and prevails extensively.16

A Masterly Hand r! 5 13

Washington is quite knowing in his comment, although he advances it with a
touching timidity.
No less a perfectionist than Washington, Houdon toiled for years over the Richmond statue, which wasn’t set in the capitol rotunda until 1796. In the ﬁnal version, Houdon played on the Cincinnatus theme of Washington returning to Mount
Vernon and divesting himself of the instruments of war. Still dressed in uniform,
his outer coat unbuttoned, Washington seems quietly self-possessed, his great labor
ﬁnished. He has exchanged his sword for a walking stick in his right hand while his
left arm rests on a column topped by his riding cape. He is tall and proud, erect and
graceful, as he gazes into the bountiful future of his country. With true humility,
Washington had asked to have the sculpture life-size instead of larger than life, and
Houdon had heeded this noble request.
During that fall of 1785 Washington entertained another French visitor at Mount
Vernon who was much less famous than Houdon but probably no less welcome.
The dentist Jean-Pierre Le Mayeur had stayed in close touch with Washington ever
since he visited the Continental Army’s headquarters in 1783. During the summer
of 1784 he spent enough time with the Washington family to become a close companion and endeared himself to Washy through the gift of a toy wooden horse. We
know that Washington bought nine teeth that year from slaves for either implants
or dentures in his own mouth. Wanting to stay in Le Mayeur’s good graces, Washington promoted his career and furnished him with introductory letters to political
luminaries in Virginia. Le Mayeur was such a frequent visitor at Mount Vernon,
showing up three times in June 1786 alone, that he and Washington became fast
friends. The dentist was a fancier of horseﬂesh, and Washington allowed him to
drop off his mares to be serviced by his famous stallion Magnolio. For all the ingenuity Le Mayeur devoted to Washington’s teeth, he couldn’t seem to arrest the
decay, and Washington continued to lose teeth. Martha Washington had previously
had a cheerier history with her teeth, but by now she too had been ﬁtted out with
dentures in what must have become a new form of marital compatibility.

Ev e n a s Hou d on wor k e d on h is stat u e of Wa sh i ngt on, which
reﬂected a hopeful stance toward America’s future, the latter was heartsick at the
country’s disarray and feared that peace would undo the valiant work accomplished
by the Continental Army. His complaints about the Articles of Confederation were
consistent with those voiced during the war. The government had no real executive
branch, just an endless multiplicity of committees. The few executive departments
were adjuncts of a chaotic, ramshackle Congress, which Washington condemned

514

r! The Statesm a n

as “wretchedly managed.”17 This legislative body required a quorum of nine states
to do business; operated on a one-state, one-vote basis; and could pass major laws
only with a unanimous vote. The United States wasn’t a country but a confederation of thirteen autonomous states, loosely presided over by Congress. The states’
blatant selﬁshness frustrated any effort to run a sound national government, which
had no real enforcement powers over them. As Washington phrased it in a letter,
“We are either a united people under one head . . . or we are thirteen independent
sovereignties, eternally counteracting each other.”18 Americans now deﬁned themselves as the antithesis of everything English, even if that acted to their detriment.
Thanks to congressional impotence, the government was unable to repay creditors who had ﬁnanced the Revolution. The paper issued to them now traded at a
tiny fraction of its face value, and Congress was powerless to redeem it. Still lacking
an independent revenue source, Congress could request money from the states but
not compel them to pay. Meanwhile America was fast becoming an irredeemably
proﬂigate nation. Despite his own checkered history with London creditors, Washington was adamant that Americans should pay their prewar debts to England, as
stipulated in the peace treaty. The federal government also lacked the power to
regulate trade among states or with foreign nations. Many states imposed duties on
goods from neighboring states, and as Madison cynically interpreted it for Jefferson, “the predominant seaport states were ﬂeecing their neighbors.”19 The resulting
trade disputes led to scorching interstate battles. As England imposed restrictions
on American trade in the West Indies, the federal government was helpless to retaliate. Without such power, Washington thought, the United States could never
negotiate commercial treaties or bargain advantageously with other countries. If
the states tried individually to regulate trade, he warned, “an abortion or a manyheaded monster would be the issue.”20
Washington also perceived a pressing need for American military power. Still
hemmed in by hostile foreign nations in North America, the country had a federal
army of fewer than a thousand men. England refused to surrender a string of forts
that stretched in a broad arc from the St. Lawrence River to the Great Lakes and the
Ohio Valley. Spain also ﬁgured as a threat. The peace treaty had granted the United
States the territory between the Appalachian Mountains and the Mississippi. This
produced friction with Spain, which shut the lower Mississippi River to American
commerce, threatening the livelihood of restive western farmers. There was a more
distant threat to peace: in 1785 Barbary pirates from northern Africa began preying
on American merchant vessels, which no longer enjoyed the protection of the British Navy. “Would to Heaven we had a navy to reform those enemies to mankind or
crush them into non-existence,” Washington told Lafayette.21 There was no way to
create a sizable army or navy without shoring up federal power.

A Masterly Hand r! 5 15

Perhaps most disturbing to Washington was the prospect that liberty would descend into anarchy. Some populist demagogue, he feared, might exploit the weakness of a feeble central government to establish a dictatorship. Where Jefferson and
Madison dreaded a powerful national government as the primrose path to monarchy, Washington and Hamilton continued to view a strong central government
as the best bulwark against that threat. “What astonishing changes a few years are
capable of producing!” Washington exclaimed to John Jay in 1786. “I am told that
even respectable characters speak of a monarchical form of government without
horror.”22
George Washington trusted the long-term wisdom of the American people, but
his deep, abiding faith was often qualiﬁed in the short run by a pessimistic view.
In 1786 he expressed this ambivalence to Madison: “No morn ever dawned more
favorable than ours did—and no day was ever more clouded than the present!”23
Washington was amazingly sensitive to America’s unseen audience of European
skeptics. Far from thumbing his nose at such doomsday prophets, he wanted to
prove them wrong and earn their good opinion. In advocating enlarged powers
for Congress, he said that it was “evident to me we never shall establish a national
character, or be considered on a respectable footing by the powers of Europe,” unless this was accomplished.24 That Washington responded so keenly to European
derision reveals, once again, residual traces of his old insularity. On some level he
remained the country cousin, eager to vindicate his country’s worth in the metropolitan hubs of Europe.
As someone who thought people should look to the educated, well-to-do members of the community for leadership, Washington had an instinctive sense of public service. From the time he returned to Mount Vernon after the war, his mind
dwelled actively on political problems. He must have sensed he would be allowed
only a brief interval of repose before being plunged back into the hurly-burly of
politics. As political power reverted back to state capitals, he might have guessed
that the nucleus of any future federal government would come from the general
staff of the Continental Army, which had experienced so dramatically the perils
of an ineffective government. His comforting fantasy of a serene Mount Vernon
retirement began to fade. “Retired as I am from the world,” he told Jay during the
summer of 1786, “I frankly acknowledge I cannot feel myself an unconcerned spectator.” Then he backed away from the implications of that statement: “Yet having
happily assisted in bringing the ship into port and having been fairly discharged, it
is not my business to embark again on a sea of troubles.”25
At times Washington pretended that he was too remote from political affairs to
know what Americans thought about key issues, telling Jefferson, “Indeed, I am too
much secluded from the world to know with certainty what sensation the refusal

5 16

r! The Statesm a n

of the British to deliver up the western posts has made on the public mind.”26 Such
protestations of ignorance ﬂew in the face of several factors: Washington entertained a large, heterogeneous group of visitors at Mount Vernon; he subscribed to
many gazettes; and he conducted a rich correspondence with political intimates.
As early as March 1786 he heard from Jay about a movement gathering force to
revise the Articles of Confederation. While sympathetic, Washington told him that
implementing those changes would require a crisis atmosphere: “That it is necessary to revise and amend the Articles of Confederation, I entertain no doubt. But
what may be the consequences of such an attempt is doubtful. Yet, something must
be done or the fabric must fall.”27 By that summer Washington sounded as if things
had reached a critical impasse, and he described the country’s state as “shameful
and disgusting.”28 In mid-August he believed that a great turning point was at hand.
“Your sentiments, that our affairs are drawing rapidly to a crisis, accord with my
own,” he assured Jay.29
One man shaping Washington’s views was James Madison. On a Saturday evening in early September 1785, Madison had appeared at Mount Vernon and was
quickly closeted in conversation with Washington, lingering through breakfast on
Monday morning. A rigorous political theorist with a coolly skeptical intellect, the
diminutive, bookish Madison was alarmed by the irresponsible behavior of the
state legislatures. Though just thirty-four, he seemed prematurely aged, with thinning hair combed ﬂat atop his head. His dark, intense eyes stared from a pale face
with heavy eyebrows. Only ﬁve foot four and plagued by delicate health, he was
abstemious in his habits. To some, he seemed an austere personality. The wife of
one Virginia politician called him “a gloomy stiff creature,” while another woman
found him “mute, cold, and repulsive.”30 He was wont to croak and mumble, could
scarcely be heard during speeches, and was painfully retiring at ﬁrst meeting. Nevertheless, with his political allies and students of history, Madison could be an
absorbing conversationalist. “He is peculiarly interesting in conversation, cheerful,
gay, and full of anecdote . . . sprightly, varied, fertile in his topics, and felicitous in
his descriptions and illustrations,” wrote Jared Sparks, an early editor of Washington’s papers.31
Appearances could be deceiving with James Madison. However professorial in
manner, he was the largest slaveholder in Orange County, Virginia, and his fragile
health masked a fanatic determination. Never a pushover in political debates, he
plumbed every subject to the bottom and was invariably the best-prepared person
in the room. To prepare for the revision of the Articles of Confederation, he plowed
through an entire “literary cargo” of books that Jefferson forwarded from Paris.32
For a young man, he possessed extensive legislative experience, ﬁrst as an effective
member of Congress and now as a member of the Virginia assembly. A skillful leg-

A Masterly Hand r! 5 1 7

islator, secretive and canny, he exerted his inﬂuence in mysteriously indirect ways.
Political foes who underrated James Madison did so at their peril.
In September 1786, Madison attended a conference in Annapolis ostensibly devoted to interstate commerce. Here commissioners from ﬁve states discussed ways
to resolve the trade disputes roiling the country. The Annapolis conference determined that the only way to cure trade disputes was to perform radical surgery on
the Articles of Confederation. One of the commissioners, Alexander Hamilton,
drafted a bold communiqué calling upon the thirteen states to send delegates to a
convention in Philadelphia in May 1787 that would “render the constitution of the
federal government adequate to the exigencies of the union.”33 Two days after the
Annapolis meeting, Edmund Randolph, head of the Virginia delegation, arrived
at Mount Vernon to brief Washington, who fully endorsed Hamilton’s appeal. In
late October Madison, accompanied by James Monroe, spent another three days at
Mount Vernon and found common ground with Washington as they dissected the
Articles of Confederation. Clearly Madison, Monroe, and Randolph were trying
to cajole Washington from retirement and enlist him in the growing movement to
reform the political structure. He was slowly being swept up in a swelling tide that
he would ﬁnd difﬁcult to resist.
As Washington considered his future role, an outbreak of violence in rural Massachusetts sharpened the reform debate. If ever American history had a useful crisis, it occurred in western Massachusetts in the autumn of 1786. To retire a heavy
debt load, the state had boosted land taxes and thereby provoked the wrath of farmers, many of whom lost their land in foreclosures. Led by Daniel Shays, a militia
captain during the war, thousands of rebels, heaving pitchforks, swarmed into rural
courthouses to menace judges and block foreclosures. Invoking the Revolution’s
militant spirit, many donned old uniforms from the Continental Army. When they
threatened to march on the army arsenal in Springﬁeld, Congress rushed Henry
Knox to the scene to supervise defensive measures. Henry Lee sent Washington
an alarming report about the rebels’ plans to subvert state government, abolish
debt, and redistribute property: “In one word, my dear General, we are all in dire
apprehension that a beginning of anarchy, with all its calamities, has approached.”
Citizens appealed to Washington to go to Massachusetts, saying his steadying presence would “bring them back to peace and reconciliation.”34
The events in Massachusetts struck the law-abiding Washington with horror,
and the pitch of his letters instantly rose in intensity. “But for God’s sake, tell me,
what is the cause of all these commotions?” he asked David Humphreys. If there
were legitimate grievances, why had they not been redressed? If it was merely a
case of licentiousness, why didn’t the government step in at once? “Commotions
of this sort, like snowballs, gather strength as they roll, if there is no opposition

518

r! The Statesm a n

in the way to divide and crumble them.”35 Once again Washington feared disgrace
among Europeans, who would seize upon any lapse to validate their cynical view of
America, and this became a leitmotif of his letters during the Massachusetts crisis:
“I am really mortiﬁed beyond expression that, in the moment of our acknowledged
independence, we should by our conduct verify the predictions of our transatlantic
foe and render ourselves ridiculous and contemptible in the eyes of all Europe.”36
However much he wished to refute these skeptics, Washington had clearly internalized their doubts.
In late October Knox told Washington that the rebels paid little in taxes and had
seized on that issue as a pretext to wage class warfare. He warned of the insidious
spread of a radical leveling doctrine. “They feel at once their own poverty, compared with the opulent,” he said, and want to convert private property into “the
common property of all.”37 Overstating the menace, Knox conjured up a desperate
army of twelve thousand to ﬁfteen thousand young men prowling New England and
challenging lawful government. If this movement spread, he thought, the country
would be drawn into the horror of civil war. From New Haven, David Humphreys
predicted that a civil war would ﬂush Washington from retirement, forcing him
to take sides: “In case of civil discord, I have already told you, it was seriously my
opinion that you could not remain neuter and that you would be obliged, in self
defence, to take part on one side or the other.”38
For Washington, who cherished his retirement, this news must have been disturbing. Not surprisingly, Shays’s Rebellion crystallized for him the need to overhaul the Articles of Confederation. “What stronger evidence can be given of the
want of energy in our governments than these disorders?” he asked Madison. “If
there exists not a power to check them, what security has a man of life, liberty,
or property?”39 What most troubled Washington was that people were ﬂouting a
political order for which they had recently risked their lives: “It is but the other
day we were shedding our blood to obtain the constitutions under which we now
live—constitutions of our own choice and framing—and now we are unsheathing
the sword to overturn them!”40
The Massachusetts uprising terminated in a full-blown military confrontation.
In late January Shays and his followers marched on the Springﬁeld arsenal, intending to seize its stores of muskets and powder, when a Massachusetts militia ﬁred
point-blank into the crowd, killing several rebels. The next day General Benjamin
Lincoln arrived with four thousand soldiers and dispersed the remnants of the dissident army, ending the protest. Even though Washington had supported the overwhelming show of force, once the insurrection was broken, he favored leniency for
the culprits, showing how subtly he could parse the political demands of a complex
situation. That Congress had abdicated its role in squashing the protest again ex-

A Masterly Hand r! 5 19

posed a dangerous vacuum of national power. Madison believed that Shays’s Rebellion “contributed more to that uneasiness which produced the constitution and
prepared the public mind for a general reform” than all the defects of the Articles
of Confederation combined.41 It made it almost certain that George Washington’s
days as a Virginia planter were numbered.

ch ap ter fort y-thr ee

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

A House on Fire

I n l at e 17 8 6 George Washington’s life was again thrown into turmoil when
Madison informed him that the Virginia legislature planned to name him head of
the state’s seven-man delegation at the forthcoming convention in Philadelphia.
Having made no effort to join the group, Washington was cast into a terrible state
of indecision. “Never was my embarrassment or hesitation more extreme or distressing,” he wrote.1 Deep questioning was typical of Washington’s political style.
Holding himself aloof, he had learned to set a high price on his participation, yielding only with reluctance. Whenever his reputation was at stake, he studied every
side of a decision, analyzing how his actions would be perceived. Having learned
to accumulate power by withholding his assent, he understood the inﬂuence of his
mystique and kept people in suspense.
Complicating his attendance in Philadelphia was that he had already declined
to attend the triennial meeting of the Society of the Cincinnati, which by an extraordinary coincidence was also slated for May 1787 in Philadelphia. He had just
sent out a mailing to members, explaining that he would neither attend nor stand
for reelection as president. It irked him that many state chapters had voted down
his proposed reforms, especially the one banning the hereditary provision. He had
wanted to remain with the organization long enough to dispel any speculation that
he had repudiated its principles. Now that the dissent had died down, he thought it
an opportune moment to extricate himself. In declining the invitation, he also cited
the press of private business and “the present imbecility of my health, occasioned
by a violent attack of the fever and ague, succeeded by rheumatic pains (to which
till of late I have been an entire stranger).”2

A House on Fire r! 521

If Washington used his health problems as an excuse, he didn’t conjure them from
thin air. In late August 1786 he had contracted a “fever and ague” that lasted for two
weeks. Since Dr. Craik prescribed the bark of the cinchona tree, a natural source of
quinine, one suspects a recurrence of the malaria that had pestered him as a young
soldier. Despite early illnesses, the younger Washington had been mostly a picture of
ruddy health. Now as aches and pains invaded his body, he was losing his youthful
grace, and he complained to Madison of feeling his rheumatic pains “very sensibly.”3
These pains became so debilitating that he couldn’t “raise my hand to my head or
turn myself in bed.”4 By April 1787, to counter this sharp pain, he had to immobilize
his arm in a sling. He went from having a boundless sense of health to feeling his age
abruptly—what he called “descending the hill”—and may have wondered whether he
possessed the necessary fund of energy for the momentous political challenges ahead.5
Washington may also have worried anew about his poor genetic endowment after his
favorite brother, John Augustine, yet another short-lived Washington male, died suddenly in early January from what Washington called “a ﬁt of gout in the head.” 6
On November 18 Washington explained to Madison that, having spurned the
Cincinnati meeting, he couldn’t attend the Constitutional Convention without being caught in an embarrassing lie, “giving offense to a very respectable and deserving
part of the community—the late ofﬁcers of the American Army.”7 Were it not for
this dilemma, he said, he would certainly attend an event so vital to the national
welfare. He wanted to be true to the principles of the Revolution, but he also wanted
to be faithful to his colleagues, a sacred trust for him. In his 1783 circular letter to the
states, he had solemnly pledged that he would not reenter politics, a public vow that
the honorable Washington took seriously. The mythology that he could not tell a lie
had some basis in fact. He may also have hesitated to attend the Constitutional Convention from a premonition that it would initiate a sequence of events that would
pull him away indeﬁnitely from Mount Vernon. After all, the last time he heeded his
country’s call in a crisis, it had embroiled him in more than eight years of war.
Refusing to let Washington off the hook, Madison argued that his presence in
Philadelphia would enhance the convention’s credibility and attract “select characters” from every state.8 In reply, Washington laid out his deeply conﬂicted feelings about the Cincinnati. He reviewed the organization’s history, telling how it
had started as a charitable fund for widows and saying that he never dreamed it
would give birth to “jealousies” and “dangers” that threatened republican principles.9 Washington stood in an acute bind: he didn’t wish to insult his fellow ofﬁcers,
but he also refused to support measures he deemed incompatible with republican
principles. His response to the predicament shows how delicately he could weigh
conﬂicting claims and cloak the real reason behind an apparent one.
Writing to Governor Edmund Randolph on December 21, Washington formally

522

r! The Statesm a n

declined appointment to the convention, secretly hoping his Virginia associates
would drop the matter. But when Madison learned of Washington’s decision, he
requested that he keep the door ajar “in case the gathering clouds should become so
dark and menacing as to supersede every consideration but that of our national existence or safety.”10 All winter long, Washington rested in a curious limbo vis-à-vis
the convention. “My name is in the delegation to this convention,” he told Jay, “but
it was put there contrary to my desire and remains there contrary to my request.”11
Washington was frankly bafﬂed and, in his time-honored executive style, canvassed friends about how to resolve his dilemma, enlisting Madison, Humphreys,
Knox, and Jay. Each exchange disclosed another layer of doubt on his part. To Humphreys, Washington confessed his fear that the Constitutional Convention might
fail, much as he had been haunted by fear of failure when named commander in
chief in 1775. Failure “would be a disagreeable predicament for any of them [the delegates] to be in, but more particularly so for a person in my situation,” he wrote.12
Since he personiﬁed the country, he stood to lose the most from accusations of
partisanship. On the other hand, this might be a last opportunity to salvage a deteriorating nation. Any failure, he said, could be construed “as an unequivocal proof
that the states are not likely to agree in any general measure . . . and consequently
that there is an end put to federal government.”13 In soliciting opinions, he again
preferred to give a passive appearance to active decisions, making it seem that he
was being reluctantly borne along by fate, friends, or historical necessity, when he
was actually shaping as well as reacting to events. This technique allowed him to
cast himself into the modest role of someone answering the summons of history. It
also permitted him to wait until a consensus had emerged on his course of action.
If Washington could never entirely resist the allure of fame, neither could he openly
welcome it.
Not all of Washington’s advisers thought he should attend. Humphreys reminded him of the potentially illegal nature of the gathering and, consequently, the
huge reputational risk. “I concur fully in sentiment with you concerning the inexpediency of your attending the convention,” he wrote.14 Knox favored Washington’s
going but felt obliged to point out that the Philadelphia convention might be “an
irregular assembly,” even an illegal one, since it would operate outside the amendment process spelled out in the Articles of Confederation. It might even expose
delegates to conspiracy charges. On the other hand, Washington’s presence would
draw New England states that had boycotted the Annapolis conference, converting
it into a truly national gathering. To pique Washington’s interest, Jay sent him a
clairvoyant sketch of a new government divided into legislative, executive, and judicial branches. “Let Congress legislate,” he told Washington. “Let others execute. Let
others judge.”15 The letter foreshadowed the exact shape of the future government.

A House on Fire r! 523

During February and March 1787 Washington alternated between passionate
concern for saving the union and an insistence that he couldn’t go to Philadelphia. He likened the confederacy to a “house on ﬁre,” saying that unless emergency
measures were taken, the building would be “reduced to ashes”; but somebody else
would apparently have to extinguish the blaze.16 Washington’s internal deliberations
began to shift on February 21, when Congress approved a convention “for the sole
and express purpose of revising the Articles of Confederation.”17 While the convention ended up exceeding this mandate, the decision momentarily retired the
legality issue. With the country “approaching to some awful crisis,” he told Knox,
he began to fret about a public outcry if he didn’t go to Philadelphia.18 Suddenly he
seemed to lean in the other direction. “A thought, however, has lately run through
my mind, which is attended with embarrassment,” he conﬁded to Knox in early
March. “It is, whether my non-attendance in this convention will not be considered
as a dereliction to republicanism.”19
Wisely, Washington had allowed the issue to percolate for months, encouraging
the perception that he was following rather than leading events. On March 19 Knox
sent him a letter that may have clinched his decision. He said that he took it for
granted that Washington would be elected president of the convention. If the convention still faltered and produced only a “patchwork to the present defective confederation, your reputation would in a degree suffer.” But if the convention forged a
vigorous new federal government, “it would be a circumstance highly honorable to
your fame . . . and doubly entitle you to the glorious republican epithet ‘The Father
of Your Country.’ ”20 This was the perfect double-barreled appeal to Washington’s
vanity and patriotism. Because of the high caliber of the delegates selected, Knox
wagered that the convention would spawn a superior new system, and “therefore
the balance of my opinion preponderates greatly in favor of your attendance.”21
In retrospect, it seems foreordained that Washington, with his unerring sense
of duty, would go to Philadelphia. He was a casualty of his own greatness, which
dictated a path in life from which he couldn’t deviate. Had he turned down the call
to duty, he would have felt something incomplete in his grand mission to found
the country, but he patently had to convince himself and the world of his purely
disinterested motives. Now he could proceed as if summoned from self-imposed
retirement by popular acclaim.
On March 28 Washington wrote to Governor Randolph and submitted to his
fate: he would indeed attend the convention. He made it clear that he was doing so
involuntarily and only submitting to the entreaties of friends. In Washington’s life,
however, one commitment led ineluctably to the next, and he acknowledged that
his attendance would have “a tendency to sweep me back into the tide of public affairs.”22 To solve his dilemma with the Cincinnati, he planned to go to Philadelphia

52 4

r! The Statesm a n

a week early and address the group, so they would not attribute his attending the
Constitutional Convention instead “to a disrespectful inattention to the Society.”23
Henry Knox was bowled over by Washington’s decision. “Secure as he was in his
fame,” he wrote to Lafayette, “he has again committed it to the mercy of events.
Nothing but the critical situation of his country would have induced him to so
hazardous a conduct.”24 Having made his decision, Washington gave unstinting
support to a convention that would do far more than just tinker with the Articles
of Confederation: like Madison, he wanted root-and-branch reform. He told Knox
that the convention should “probe the defects” of the Articles of Confederation “to
the bottom,” and he worried that some states might not send delegates or would
hobble them with “cramped powers,” fostering an impasse.25 By this point, Washington was clearly primed for decisive action in Philadelphia.

Be for e ta k i ng on t h e bu r de n of A m e r ic a, Washington had to deal
with a piece of unﬁnished family business: the chronic discontent of his mother.
Mary Washington, with her ﬂinty independence, was still stewing with grievances.
Right before John Augustine died in early January, she had written to him to complain of an absence of corn at her four-hundred-acre farm in the Little Falls quarter
of the Rappahannock River. “I never lived soe pore in my life,” she insisted.26 Had
it not been for succor from a neighbor and her daughter, Betty, she contended, “I
should be almost starvd, butt I am like an old almanack, quit out of date.”27 After
Mary’s wartime petition to the Virginia legislature, John Augustine, at George’s behest, had taken charge of her mismanaged property. This letter about her supposed
poverty shows that she did not restrict her whining to her famous son. She had
mixed feelings about allowing others to govern her business. When her late son-inlaw, Fielding Lewis, volunteered to take over her business affairs, Mary Washington
had shot back, “Do you, Fielding, keep my books in order, for your eyesight is better
than mine, but leave the executive management to me.”28
News that Mary was again denigrating him drifted back to George, who wrote
to her in mid-February and enclosed another ﬁfteen guineas. In this stilted letter,
Washington revealed that his relations with her had grown so frosty that the two
hadn’t even communicated after Jack’s death. Indignant at his mother’s accusation
that he was being stingy, he poured out his grievances, explaining in brutal detail
the miserable state of his ﬁnances:
I have now demands upon me for more than 500£, three hundred and forty odd
which is due for the tax of 1786; and I know not where, or when, I shall receive one
shilling with which to pay. In the last two years, I made no crops. In the ﬁrst I was

A House on Fire r! 525

obliged to buy corn and this year have none to sell and my wheat is so bad that I
cannot neither eat it myself nor sell it to others, and tobacco I make none. Those
who owe me money cannot or will not pay it without [law]suits . . . whilst my expenses . . . for the absolute support of my family and the visitors who are constantly
here are exceedingly high; higher indeed than I can support, without selling part of
my estate, which I am disposed to do rather than run in debt . . . This is really and
truly my situation.29

Washington went on to protest that, despite their business agreement, he had received not a penny from his mother’s farm, even though he had paid 122 pounds in
annual rent for her plantation and slaves; either Mary or her overseer had skimmed
off the proﬁts and forwarded nothing to him. Beyond that, he had given her more
than 300 pounds in unpaid loans over a dozen years—all carefully documented in
his ledgers. As a result of her accusations, he told her, “I am viewed as a delinquent
and considered perhaps by the world as [an] unjust and undutiful son.”30 Once
again Washington was preoccupied with a world that might sit in disapproving
judgment upon him. To relieve his mother’s distress, he suggested that she hire out
her servants and live with one of her children. In fact, shortly before his death, John
Augustine had volunteered to take her in.
Anticipating her next request, Washington said that she was welcome to live
at Mount Vernon, but he warned her that “in truth it may be compared to a wellresorted tavern, as scarcely any strangers who are going from north to south, or
from south to north, do not spend a day or two at it. This would, were you to be an
inhabitant of it, oblige you to do one of 3 things, 1st to be always dressing to appear
in company, 2d to come into [it] in a dishabille or 3d to be, as it were, a prisoner
in your own chamber.”31 This image of Mount Vernon as a crowded, noisy inn,
swarming with strangers, was not exactly an inviting one, and Mary never came to
live there. The letter is conspicuously devoid of warmth or family affection: Washington and his mother were simply locked in an unhappy business relationship.
Washington’s reasons for dissuading his mother from living at Mount Vernon conﬁrm that he perceived her as a coarse countrywoman who would be ill at ease in
more polished society.
On March 7 Washington returned to Fredericksburg for what he imagined
would be the “last act of personal duty”—that is, the last time he might see his
aged mother.32 Then in late April, as he prepared to leave for Philadelphia, he was
summoned to Fredericksburg by news that both Mary, who was apparently suffering from breast cancer, and his sister, Betty, were gravely ill. Even though his arm
now rested in a sling from rheumatic pain, Washington made the urgent trip to
Fredericksburg, telling Henry Knox that he was “hastening to obey this melancholy

52 6

r! The Statesm a n

call, after having just bid an eternal farewell to a much loved brother.”33 In correspondence, Washington always sounded like the conscientious son, telling Robert
Morris that he had been called to Fredericksburg for “the last adieu to an honored
parent and an affectionate sister.”34
Although the trip proved a false alarm, Washington found his mother vastly
changed, her illness having “reduced her to a skeleton, tho[ugh] she is somewhat
amended.”35 Oddly, Washington had made no previous reference to her medical situation, which made her complaining far more comprehensible. Betty had improved
as well and was now out of danger. One Fredericksburg resident was shocked by the
transformation in Washington’s own appearance: “Gen[era]l Washington has been
here to see his mother, who has been ill . . . The Gen[era]l is much altered in his
person, one arm swung with rheumatism.”36 After a few days Washington returned
to Mount Vernon, but the trip must have formed a sobering backdrop to his journey to the Constitutional Convention.
On May 9, 1787, shortly after sunrise, George Washington set off for Philadelphia. While his rheumatic misery had abated, he was beset by other complaints, including a violent headache and an upset stomach—perhaps the somatic expression
of his dread about the convention. Until this time Martha Washington had been
the loyal, submissive wife in dealing with her husband’s career. Now, as she saw
George sentenced to life imprisonment in American politics, she began to rebel and
decided to skip the Constitutional Convention. “Mrs. Washington is become too
domestic, and too attentive to two little grandchildren to leave home,” Washington
explained to Robert Morris, “and I can assure you, sir, that it was not until after
a long struggle [that] I could obtain my own consent to appear again in a public
theater.”37 This was a more independent Martha than the one who had rushed off
to her husband’s winter camps despite her fears of travel and gunﬁre.
On Sunday, May 13, Washington arrived at Chester, Pennsylvania, and was escorted into Philadelphia by a long procession of dignitaries and a troop of light
horse. Greeted by booming artillery and saluting ofﬁcers, Washington must have
been reminded of the worshipful attention he had generated during the war.
Despite inclement weather, the sidewalks were densely packed with enthusiastic
throngs. Noted the Pennsylvania Packet, “The joy of the people on the coming of
this great and good man was shown by their acclamation and the ringing of bells.”38
Washington having shed his arm sling, the newspaper expressed joy in ﬁnding “our
old and faithful commander in the full enjoyment of his health and fame.” 39 Washington saw nothing incongruous about arriving in Philadelphia ﬂanked by three of
his slaves, Giles, Paris, and the durable Billy Lee; the fate of such slaves would form a
contentious issue at the convention. Although James Madison hoped that the entire
Virginia delegation would stay at the same lodging house, hard by the Pennsylvania

A House on Fire r! 527

State House, Washington succumbed to the entreaties of Robert Morris and stayed
with him and his wife, Mary.
Guided by a ﬁne sense of decorum, Washington made his ﬁrst courtesy call
on the venerable Benjamin Franklin, whom he had not seen since 1776, and his
elderly host broke open a cask of dark beer to receive him. Washington had long
revered Franklin as a “wise, a great and virtuous man.”40 Throughout the war he
had addressed the older man with exquisite respect, extending to him the title “Your
Excellency” that the rest of the world also applied to him. After the war Franklin
had tried to woo Washington into a joint tour of Europe, which would have made
a sensation by uniting the two most famous Americans. Now, as president of the
Executive Council of Pennsylvania, Franklin was Washington’s only serious rival
for the convention presidency. His medical situation, however, militated against his
selection: he was tormented by gout and kidney stones, even though he tossed off
witticisms about the latter. “You may judge that my disease is not grievous,” he said,
“since I am more afraid of the medicines than of the malady.” 41
The assembly of demigods got off to a rather sluggish start. Although the convention was supposed to begin on May 14, only the Virginia and Pennsylvania
delegations arrived on time, forcing a delay. A punctual man, Washington was
irritated by the absence of a quorum of seven states and groused to George Augustine that the deferrals were “highly vexatious to those who are idly and expensively
spending their time here.”42 Throughout his time in Philadelphia, Washington plied
George Augustine with detailed advice about Mount Vernon, just as he had with
Lund Washington during the war. Two days after the convention opened, he asked
his nephew if he had “tried both fresh and salt ﬁsh as a manure” and recommended
that he plant buckwheat.43 As a farmer, it frustrated him that Philadelphia was being drenched with rain while drought prevailed in Virginia.
The delay thrust Washington into a knotty predicament vis-à-vis the Society of
the Cincinnati, for it suddenly gave him time to attend their meetings. Reluctant
to become more deeply involved, he came up with a clever alternative. Instead of
attending meetings, he dined on May 15 with twenty members of the society, thus
preserving a self-protective distance. Because he didn’t wish to affront old comrades, he accepted reelection as president on May 18, making clear that the actual
duties would devolve on the vice president. That he steered clear of the Cincinnati
was ﬁne with the more diehard members, one saying, “I could almost wish for the
absence of the illustrious chief, whose extreme prudence and circumspection . . .
may cool our laudable and necessary ebullition with a few drops, if not a torrent,
of cold water.”44
While awaiting the convention’s start, Washington hobnobbed with tony members of Philadelphia society, starting with Robert and Mary White Morris. Among

52 8

r! The Statesm a n

his other hosts were the wealthy William Bingham and his beautiful wife, Anne
Willing Bingham, whose splendid house on Third Street formed the centerpiece
of Philadelphia society. There was nothing surprising in Washington’s seeking out
such rich company: their social milieu was the same as his at home. Very receptive,
as always, to the ladies, he noted in his diary any feminine company he shared. He
attended a charity event with Mary White Morris “and some other ladies” to hear a
Mrs. O’Connell deliver a discourse on eloquence.45 Later in the week he attended a
wedding for the daughter of Benjamin Chew, whose stone house in Germantown
had presented such a costly obstacle to the Continental Army. He evidently enjoyed
it: “Drank tea there in a very large circle of ladies.”46 One wonders whether Washington enjoyed this brief vacation from Martha’s company.
Washington renewed an important friendship, formed during the First Continental Congress, with the wealthy, laconic Samuel Powel, a former mayor of Philadelphia, and his sophisticated, entrancing wife, Elizabeth (or Eliza). The Powels
inhabited a three-story rococo mansion on Third Street that was so tastefully opulent that the Chevalier de Chastellux had praised this “handsome house . . . adorned
with ﬁne prints and some very good copies of the best Italian paintings.”47 But during the First Continental Congress, the puritanical John Adams had recoiled from
the “sinful feast” he attended there, which had everything that “could delight the
eye or allure the taste.”48 George Washington had no such trouble with the regal
atmosphere at the Powels’ and was a frequent guest at their soirées.
An immensely charming, erudite, and witty woman, who wrote with literary
ﬂair and elegance, Elizabeth Willing Powel eclipsed her stolid husband and could
have held her own in the spirited repartee of any European salon. The daughter
as well as the wife of a mayor, this socially proﬁcient and politically opinionated
hostess loved to ﬂirt with powerful men, and George Washington fell under her
spell. A portrait by Matthew Pratt shows an extremely handsome older woman
whose low-cut yellow dress and purple sash amply display her voluptuous ﬁgure.
She looks calm and poised, with a penetrating eye and a slightly melancholy air
after the death of her two sons. Elizabeth Powel provided virtually the only instance in his later years when Washington befriended a couple but was much closer
with the wife. She revered Washington, whom she saw on a par with the loftiest
heroes of antiquity. As with George William and Sally Fairfax, Washington was
careful to stay on good terms with Samuel Powel and equally careful to include
Martha Washington in the friendship. Nevertheless, his friendship with Elizabeth
Powel was his only deep, direct one with a woman who qualiﬁed as an intellectual
peer and treated him as such. In this relationship Washington escaped the narrow
bounds of marriage, met Powel alone for teas, and corresponded with her. We have
no evidence that their closeness ever progressed beyond that, but if George Wash-

A House on Fire r! 5 2 9

ington ever contemplated romance with another woman, it surely must have been
Elizabeth Powel.
One of Samuel Powel’s hobbies was making silhouettes, and he got Washington
to sit for one. It was a measure of Washington’s regard for his image that he faulted
the silhouette for a small wattle sagging from his chin and asked Powel to redo the
portrait. The drooping chin was duly excised from the ﬁnished product.
For all his mixing in high society, Washington was an extremely hardworking
delegate at the convention. At some point before it started, he took the ideas for
constitutional reform presented to him by Jay, Knox, and Madison and boiled them
down into a handy digest. Back in 1776 he had delivered a comment on Virginia’s
new constitution that shows how studiously he approached such work: “To form a
new government requires inﬁnite care and unbounded attention, for if the foundation is badly laid, the superstructure must be bad.”49
Because the entire Virginia delegation arrived on time, its members developed
a powerful early cohesion. Headed by Governor Edmund Randolph, the distinguished group included Madison and George Mason; the latter informed his son
that the hardworking Virginians met “two or three hours every day in order to form
a proper correspondence of sentiments.”50 Their deliberations yielded the so-called
Virginia Plan, spearheaded by Madison, which proposed for a tripartite government and proportional representation in both houses of Congress. Madison and
Washington, who favored a vigorous central government, carried the day against
objections from Randolph and Mason, making their strongly nationalist views the
ofﬁcial opening position of the Virginia delegation.
On a rainy Friday, May 25, the convention obtained its seven-state quorum and
began to meet ofﬁcially. It had been decided that Franklin would nominate Washington as president. When the ailing Franklin was grounded by heavy rain, he asked
Robert Morris to nominate Washington in his stead. (When Franklin ﬁnally did
arrive at the sessions, he had to be carried aloft in a sedan chair, hoisted by four convicts from the Walnut Street jail.) The delegates appreciated Franklin’s magnanimous gesture, and Madison wrote that “the nomination came with particular grace
from Pennsylvania, as Dr. Franklin alone could have been thought of as a competitor.”51 After being seconded by John Rutledge, Washington was unanimously
elected the convention president, while Major William Jackson, who had been on
General Lincoln’s wartime staff, became its secretary.
After Washington was chosen, Morris and Rutledge accompanied him to a tall
wooden chair in front, placed on an elevated platform and adorned with a rising
sun on its carved back. Perhaps to conjure up the spirit of 1776 or remind delegates
of his military garb at the Second Continental Congress, Washington appeared in
his old uniform. He made a short acceptance speech, full of vintage touches, includ-

530

r! The Statesm a n

ing confessions of inadequacy and a plea for understanding if he failed—pretty
much the same speech he made after every major appointment in his life. As recorded by Madison, Washington “reminded them of the novelty of the scene of
business in which he was to act, lamented his want of [better qualiﬁcations], and
claimed the indulgence of the house towards the involuntary errors which his inexperience might occasion.”52
The post of president raised Washington to a nonpartisan, nonspeaking role—
ideal for his discreet nature. The Constitutional Convention was yet another situation where the need for national unity imposed a congenial silence upon him. It
spared him the need to voice opinions or make speeches, enabling him to bridge
divisions and restricting his lobbying to the social hours. He followed the debates
closely and later said he “attentively heard and read every oral and printed information on both sides of the question that could be procured.”53 Occasionally he cast
a vote, descending brieﬂy from his Olympian perch, then resumed his high place.
Most of the time he stood forth as a neutral arbiter and honest broker.
Although highly intelligent, Washington lacked a philosophical mind that could
originate constitutional ideas. John Adams once observed that the founding generation had “been sent into life at a time when the greatest lawgivers of antiquity
would have wished to live,” but this particular brand of greatness eluded George
Washington.54 It is hard to picture him springing to his feet in debate or remonstrating over an issue. He was doubtless content to be consigned to the sidelines and
contributed little during the debates. At the same time he lent the proceedings his
tacit blessing, allowing others to act as architects of the new order. He embodied
the public excluded from the secret proceedings, and his mere presence reassured
Americans that the delegates were striving for the public good instead of hatching
a secret cabal behind closed doors.
As convention president, Washington assumed a digniﬁed and sometimes severe air. William Pierce of Georgia recounted how one day a delegate dropped a
copy of some proposed resolutions. This paper was brought to Washington, who
was appalled that someone had so carelessly threatened the secrecy of the deliberations. He promptly rose to chastise the delegates and, as always, had a knack for
projecting suppressed wrath: “Gentlemen, I am sorry to ﬁnd that some one member of this body has been so neglectful of the secrets of the convention as to drop
in the State House a copy of their proceedings, which by accident was picked up
and delivered to me this morning. I must entreat [the] gentlemen to be more careful, lest our transactions get into the newspapers and disturb the public repose by
premature speculations.” He tossed the paper onto the table before him. “I do not
know whose paper it is, but there it is—let him who owns it take it.”55 Washington
donned his hat and strode angrily from the room. Momentarily unable to ﬁnd his

A House on Fire r! 53 1

own copy, Pierce crept to the rostrum with some trepidation and was relieved to see
someone else’s handwriting on the paper. In the end, nobody had the nerve to claim
it and confront Washington. The vignette shows how Washington functioned as the
conscience of the convention and could make this room full of dignitaries feel like
guilty schoolboys, summoned to the headmaster’s ofﬁce for a reprimand.
Washington paid such strict heed to the convention’s secrecy rule that, even in
his diary, he refrained from recording developments, limiting himself to saying, “Attended convention as usual.” Otherwise he drew a discreet veil across the proceedings, dwelling on his social activities. In correspondence, however, he drummed up
support for the convention’s work, telling Jefferson that the central government had
virtually ceased to function and that “unless a remedy is soon applied, anarchy and
confusion will inevitably ensue.”56
A story told of Washington at Philadelphia that may be apocryphal highlights
several truths about his relations with his colleagues. One evening some Continental Army veterans were discussing the general’s aloofness and the way he communicated to people that he didn’t like to be touched or treated familiarly. Gouverneur
Morris, dismissing this as nonsense, said he could be as familiar with Washington
as with anyone else. Alexander Hamilton proposed a wager: he would buy dinner
for a dozen delegates if Morris strode up to Washington, gave him a friendly slap on
the shoulder, and said, “My dear General, how happy I am to see you look so well.”57
Morris tried the experiment—and Washington turned and ﬁxed him with an icy
glare that made Morris regret his error.
The convention sessions, which ran from ten a.m. to four p.m. daily, left considerable time for delegates to tour the city. Wherever Washington went, he was
treated as a head of state, and people ﬂocked after him. “In 1775, we beheld him
at the head of the armies of America, arresting the progress of British tyranny,”
intoned the Pennsylvania Gazette. “In the year 1787, we behold him at the head of a
chosen band of patriots and heroes, arresting the progress of American anarchy.”58
When a local resident, Jacob Hiltzheimer, tried to sneak a peek at the hero at close
range, he found him swallowed up in large crowds. “In the evening [of June 4],” he
wrote, “my wife and I went to Market Street gate to see that great and good man,
General Washington. We had a full view of him and Major [William] Jackson, who
walked with him, but the number of people who followed him on all sides was
astonishing.”59
Perhaps hoping to ﬂee the crowds, Washington rose early in the morning and
took brisk rides with his slave and coachman Giles. Spotted all over Philadelphia
with his slaves, Washington made sure they were suitably dressed for the national
stage, especially Billy Lee. Two days after arriving, Washington went on a special
shopping expedition to get soap powder, a puff, and a black silk handkerchief for

532

r! The Statesm a n

Lee; a month later he bought him two pairs of stockings and a pair of breeches.
The chief consideration was surely that Lee should reﬂect credit on his master, but
one wonders whether Washington felt any extra gratitude for the services Lee had
rendered in the Continental Army. It would also be intriguing to know whether Lee,
Paris, and Giles lingered outside the State House as Washington and the other delegates debated inside the meaning of freedom and the fate of slavery in America.

ch ap ter fort y-four

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Rising Sun

For most of t h e c on v e n t ion, Washington sat in splendid isolation at the
front. On May 29, when Edmund Randolph presented the Virginia Plan, the convention reverted to a committee of the whole, and Nathaniel Gorham temporarily
supplanted Washington in the presidential chair. After June 19 Washington resumed
his place in the high seat that previewed his future status in the federal government. In the early days in Philadelphia he was heartened by the seeming harmony
among the delegates, telling George Augustine that “the sentiments of the different
members seem to accord more than I expected they would, as far as we have yet
gone.”1 The general contours of the system that Jay and Madison had sketched out
for him—a tripartite government, with a bicameral legislature—enlisted general
support. Nonetheless, sharp clashes soon emerged, especially on the explosive issue of representation. On June 6 James Madison spoke in favor of direct election
to the House of Representatives, based on proportional representation—a position
supported by the populous states—and conjured up a vision of a broad, pluralistic
republic. In mid-June William Paterson of New Jersey, champion of the smaller
states, countered with a plan that foresaw states represented equally in Congress.
Though mute on the podium, Washington supported Madison’s view.
Fueled by the apprehensions of smaller states, the amity celebrated by Washington in early June had crumbled by the end of the month. On June 30, the weather
having grown sweltering, Gunning Bedford of Delaware delivered a hot-tempered
tirade, aimed at the larger states, demonstrating just how bruising the discourse had
become. “I do not, gentlemen, trust you,” he told them. He even hinted at secession,
saying apropos of the smaller states that “sooner than be ruined, there are foreign

53 4

r! The Statesm a n

powers who will take us by the hand.”2 Washington and Madison gazed in dismay as
their worst fears of disunion threatened to materialize before their eyes. In early July
a disappointed Alexander Hamilton returned temporarily to New York on business
and dropped a pessimistic note to Washington, saying how “seriously and deeply
distressed” he was by the convention’s divisive sniping: “I fear that we shall let slip
the golden opportunity of rescuing the American empire from disunion, anarchy,
and misery.”3 Hostile to new federal powers, the two other New York delegates,
Robert Yates and John Lansing, Jr., left the convention by July 5, never to return.
Although he held his tongue during the debates, Washington was never a neutral party, and the interminable squabbling only reinforced his view that the country needed a potent central government to override the selﬁsh ambitions of local
politicians. The man associated with so many triumphs shuddered at the prospect
of being associated with public failure. “I almost despair of seeing a favorable issue
to . . . the convention and do therefore repent having had any agency in the business,” he informed Hamilton on July 10, chastising “narrow-minded politicians . . .
under the inﬂuence of local views.”4 In a gentle, almost fatherly way, he begged
Hamilton, the prodigal son, to return to the fold. “I am sorry you went away,” he
said. “I wish you were back. The crisis is equally important and alarming and no
opposition under such circumstances should discourage exertions till the signature
is ﬁxed.”5
While the convention dragged on, Washington drank enormous quantities of
tea at the City Tavern and the Indian Queen, two haunts frequented by delegates. In
his social life, he exhibited expert political instincts and embraced a wide spectrum
of citizens, as if he already saw the presidency looming dimly on the horizon. On
one of his ﬁrst Sundays, he attended a Roman Catholic mass and also dined with
Mark Prager, Sr., a Jewish merchant. On several occasions he joined fraternal dinners hosted by the Irish American Sons of St. Patrick. In early June he yielded to
the importunate General Mifﬂin and reviewed the infantry, cavalry, and artillery of
Philadelphia, as if he were already more than merely president of the convention.
Washington’s Philadelphia itineraries reﬂected his far-ranging interests. Surgeon Abraham Chovet gave him a private tour of his Anatomical Museum, with
its ingenious displays of human ﬁgures. Washington also gratiﬁed his abiding love
of theater by catching plays at the Southwark Theater, which lay beyond Philadelphia’s borders because of a law banning theater performances in the city proper.
He evinced continuing solicitude for artists, sitting for an engraving by Charles
Willson Peale and a portrait by Robert Edge Pine, who needed to touch up work
begun at Mount Vernon two years earlier. In his wanderings, he visited a gristmill
on the Schuylkill River and exhausted the proprietor with questions. “This day,
Gen. Washington, Gen. Mifﬂin and four others of the convention did us the honor

Rising Sun r! 535

of paying us a visit in order to see our vineyard and bee houses,” said Peter Legaux,
a French immigrant. “In this they found great delight, asked a number of questions,
and testiﬁed their highest approbation with my manner of managing bees.”6 At
Franklin’s house, Washington revealed a sharp interest in mechanical inventions,
marveling at a mangle used for pressing items after they were washed.
As always, Washington’s silences were as eloquent at his pronouncements. In late
July he accompanied Robert Morris on a trout-ﬁshing expedition to a creek near
Valley Forge, prompting him to ride over to his old army cantonment. In his diary, Washington mentioned having “visited all the works, which were in ruins, and
the encampments in woods, where the ground had not been cultivated.”7 When he
last saw Valley Forge, it had been cold and gloomy, bare of all foliage. Now it was a
balmy place, lush with summer greenery. The sight undoubtedly stirred deep-seated
memories in Washington, but his diary entry for that day is curiously reticent; even
by Washingtonian standards, it is a gem of emotional evasion. After a one-sentence
allusion to Valley Forge, he continued, “On my return back to Mrs. Moore’s, observing some farmers at work and entering into conversation with them, I received
the following information with respect to the mode of cultivating buckwheat and
the application of the grain.”8 He then listed various ways to sow, plow, and harrow
buckwheat, as if that were the day’s major occurrence. On some level, Washington
felt the powerful lure of the past yet could never articulate it. He proved only a
touch more expansive after visiting the site of the Germantown battle, stating that
he had “contemplated on the dangers which threatened the American Army at that
place.”9 That was his total commentary. Active and forward-looking, Washington
did not amble very often down memory lane, though some dinner guests at Mount
Vernon recalled him reminiscing about the war.
In the absence of Martha’s company, Washington continued to gravitate toward
alluring female society. When he dined at a club composed of the city’s leading gentlemen, he noted that they invited female family members on alternate Saturdays.
Not surprisingly, Washington chose that day to attend, specifying, “This was the
ladies day.”10 Several times he called upon Elizabeth Powel and dusted off a musty
streak of gallantry. As he wrote to her on July 23, “Gen[era]l Washington presents
his respectful compliments to Mrs. Powel and will do himself the honor of calling
upon her at or before 5 o’clock (in his carriage) in hopes of the pleasure of conducting her to Lansdown this evening.”11 From the chivalrous tone of these messages,
one senses that Washington could sometimes enjoy ﬂirtatious banter. A week later,
noting his trout-ﬁshing trip to the Valley Forge area, he declined an invitation to
escort Mrs. Powel to a performance of Sheridan’s School for Scandal: “The Gen[era]
l can but regret that matters have turned out so unluckily after waiting so long to
receive a lesson in the School for Scandal.”12 Washington seldom allowed himself

53 6

r! The Statesm a n

the liberty of jesting with a married lady in this manner. His lighthearted tone with
Elizabeth Powel makes one wonder anew about the role of repressed sexuality in
George Washington’s life. We have no evidence that he ever talked to Martha in
this coy manner, nor is it easy to imagine. For all the happiness of their marriage,
Martha had become his life’s standard prose while Elizabeth Powel, like Sally Fairfax, may have introduced some forbidden spice of poetry. It was as if, during his
extended sojourn in Philadelphia, the footloose Washington permitted himself to
explore sides of his personality that he kept ﬁrmly under wraps at home.

No t l ong a f t e r Washington wrote so gloomily to Hamilton, the Constitutional
Convention experienced a spectacular breakthrough. In mid-July it was agreed that
the small states would be represented equally in the Senate, while the House would
have proportional representation based on population. For Washington and other
Virginia delegates, it was a bitter pill to swallow, threatening to weaken the federal
government critically. Nonetheless, an eminently pragmatic man, Washington accepted the need for painful compromises to form a union, assuring Henry Knox that
the government being shaped by the delegates was “the best that can be obtained at
the present moment, under such diversity of ideas as prevail.”13
Perhaps the most uncomfortable debate hinged on the slavery issue. The abolitionist movement had made considerable headway in New England but was losing
ground in the South after a brief ﬂurry of postwar interest. Slavery was the most
vexing topic at the convention. As Pierce Butler of South Carolina commented,
“The security the southern states want is that their negroes may not be taken from
them, which some gentlemen within or without doors have a very good mind to
do.”14 Employing thinly disguised blackmail, some southern delegates vowed to
quit the convention if anyone interfered with their peculiar institution. “The true
question at present is whether the southern states shall, or shall not, be parties to
the union,” said John Rutledge of South Carolina.15
The delegates agreed that slavery wouldn’t be mentioned by name in the Constitution, giving way to transparent euphemisms, such as “persons held to service
or labor.” Slaveholders won some substantial concessions. For the purposes of representation in the House of Representatives and the Electoral College, they would
be able to count three-ﬁfths of their slave population. This was no mean feat: slaves
made up 40 percent of the population in Virginia, for instance, and 60 percent in
South Carolina. The slave trade would also be shielded from any tampering for at
least twenty years. Through a fugitive slave clause, masters would be able to reclaim
runaway slaves in free states—a provision George Washington would liberally employ in future years. Referring to these hard-fought victories for the southern states,

Rising Sun r! 53 7

the abolitionist William Lloyd Garrison would later castigate the Constitution as “a
covenant with death and an agreement with hell.”16
Whatever his own nascent abolitionist views, George Washington wasn’t about
to make an open stand at the convention and joined other delegates in daydreaming
that slavery would fade away at some nebulous future date. Isolated critics branded
Washington a hypocrite for clinging to his slaves after a revolution fought in the
name of freedom. At the Massachusetts convention that ratiﬁed the Constitution,
one speaker deplored his status as a slaveholder. “Oh, Washington, what a name
he has had! How he has immortalized himself!” he exclaimed, then remarked that
Washington “holds those in slavery who have as good a right to be free as he has.
He is still for self and, in my opinion, his character has sunk 50 percent.”17 A Massachusetts newspaper, echoing this charge, regretted that Washington had “wielded
the sword in defense of American liberty yet at the same time, was, and is to this
day, living upon the labors of several hundreds of miserable Africans as freeborn
as himself.”18
The debate over the executive branch was likewise steeped in controversy. Delegates had difﬁculty conceiving a mighty presidency that did not look suspiciously
like a monarchy, and they trod gingerly in this treacherous territory. The idea of a
separate executive branch with a president independent of the legislature and able
to veto its laws was regarded as heretical in some quarters. Benjamin Franklin so
distrusted executive power that he pushed for a small executive council instead of
a president. In advancing this idea, he had the courtesy to note, with a ﬁgurative
nod toward Washington, that the ﬁrst president would likely be benevolent, but he
feared despotic tendencies in his successors.
That the delegates overcame their dread of executive power and produced an
energetic presidency can be traced directly to Washington’s imperturbable presence. Pierce Butler doubted that the presidential powers would have been so great
“had not many members cast their eyes toward General Washington as president
and shaped their ideas of the powers to a president by their opinion of his virtue.”19 As convention president, Washington sat through extensive discussions of
what was turning into his job description. There was a tacit assumption that, the
ofﬁce having been conceived with him in mind, Washington would serve as the ﬁrst
president. With his image before their eyes, the delegates were inevitably governed
by their hopes instead of their fears. Still, with memories of the Revolution fresh,
they reserved signiﬁcant powers for Congress, endowing it, for instance, with the
authority to declare war, thereby avoiding the British precedent of a monarch who
retained this awesome power.
For all his inscrutable silence, Washington disclosed speciﬁc views several times
during the convention. When Elbridge Gerry proposed a constitutional limit of

53 8

r! The Statesm a n

three thousand men in any standing army, Washington supposedly remarked drily
that “no foreign enemy should invade the United States, at any time, with more
than three thousand troops.”20 At the end of the convention, he also took a decidedly democratic stand on the question of how many people each congressman
should represent, opting for thirty thousand instead of forty thousand to ensure
“security for the rights and interests of the people.”21 Blessed by Washington, the
convention adopted this change unanimously, in a striking instance of his irresistible appeal. That Washington was an exponent of an energetic presidency was
also evident when he voted for requiring a three-fourths majority in Congress to
override a presidential veto. Despite Washington’s backing, it was reduced to a twothirds majority to forestall abuses of executive power.
Whatever pleasure he derived from being away from Mount Vernon had disappeared by September 9, when he wrote to George Augustine that the convention
would likely wind up its deliberations within a week: “God grant I may not be
disappointed in this expectation, as I am quite homesick.”22 The long hours and
sedentary job must have proved an ordeal for him. A day earlier the convention
had convened a committee on style, with Gouverneur Morris as its head, to give the
Constitution its ﬁnished form. The foppish, peg-legged Morris was a delightful bon
vivant with considerable verbal resources who relished Washington’s “cool, steady
temper.”23 Washington, in turn, enjoyed Morris’s lively ﬂow of quips, his “ﬁrst-rate
abilities,” and his “lively and brilliant imagination.”24 It was Morris who drafted the
great preamble to the Constitution that began with the memorable ﬂourish “We the
People.” On September 12 delegates received printed copies of the ﬁnal document,
and as he led them through it, Washington personally inserted the changes that had
been approved while the committee on style was hard at work.
Whatever his misgivings about individual provisions, Washington was no lukewarm supporter of the ﬁnal document. As he later expressed it, the Constitution
was “the result of a spirit of amity and mutual concession” and more coherent than
anyone had a right to expect from so many discordant delegates with passionate
opinions.25 It struck him as “little short of a miracle,” he told Lafayette, that “delegates from so many different states . . . should unite in forming a system of national government so little liable to well-founded objections.”26 In another letter he
said, “It approached nearer to perfection than any government hitherto instituted
among men.”27 Especially sensitive to allegations that the president was vested with
excessive power, he stressed the numerous safeguards put in place, telling Lafayette
that the new constitution “is provided with more checks and barriers against the
introduction of tyranny . . . than any government” previously devised by mortals.28
As president, Washington went so far as to say that the “invisible hand” of providence had been manifest in the enactment of the Constitution.29

Rising Sun r! 539

In correspondence Washington admitted to imperfections in the new charter
but trusted to the amendment process to reﬁne it. The Constitutional Convention
was no conclave of sages in Roman togas, handing down eternal truths engraved
in marble, and he wondered how long the document would last. He parted company with Edmund Randolph, who refused to sign the Constitution unless it provided for a second convention to enact necessary amendments. For Washington,
the beauty of the document was that it charted a path for its own evolution. Its very
brevity and generality—it contained fewer than eight thousand words—meant it
would be a constantly changing document, susceptible to shifting interpretations.
It would be left to Washington and other founders to convert this succinct, deliberately vague statement into a working reality. He also knew that the American public
needed to contribute its share; the Constitution “can only lay the foundation—
the community at large must raise the ediﬁce.”30 Benjamin Franklin shared this
view. Legend claims that as he left the State House, Franklin bumped into Elizabeth
Powel, who inquired about the form of government produced inside. “A republic,
madam, if you can keep it,” Franklin replied.31 Powel later claimed that she had
no recollection of the famous retort, but she did say that “the most respectable,
inﬂuential members of the convention” had gathered at her house and that “the all
important subject was frequently discussed” there.32
On Monday, September 17, 1787, the convention’s last day, the delegates adopted
the Constitution “unanimously,” although there was poetic license in the use of the
word. It had taken four long months to attain this historic agreement. After starting
out with 55 delegates—all of them white and male, and many afﬂuent—the convention had suffered a high rate of attrition, with only 42 present at the end; of those, 39
signed the document. Eleven states approved the Constitution; Alexander Hamilton signed individually as the sole remaining delegate from New York. Rhode Island
had boycotted the convention altogether. To Madison, Washington explained how
important “the appearance of unanimity” was in presenting the Constitution to
Congress: “Not everyone has opportunities to peep behind the curtain, and as the
multitude often judge from externals, the appearance of unanimity in that body, on
this occas[io]n, will be of great importance.”33 It was a telling comment from a man
who placed a premium on political stagecraft.
Of the three convention holdouts, two came from Virginia—Edmund Randolph and George Mason—and happened to be close friends of Washington; the
third was Elbridge Gerry of Massachusetts. As heir apparent to the presidency,
Washington undoubtedly took offense when Mason declared that the new government “would end either in monarchy or a tyrannical aristocracy” and complained
that the Constitution “had been formed without the knowledge . . . of the people.”34
Their thirty-year friendship did not survive their heated split. “Col. Mason left

5 40

r! The Statesm a n

Philad[elphi]a in an exceeding ill humor,” Madison afterward told Washington. “He
returned to Virginia with a ﬁxed disposition to prevent the adoption of the plan if
possible. He considers the want of a Bill of Rights as a fatal objection.”35 The convention’s secrecy rule deplored by Mason had stimulated candor but was immediately blasted by critics and engendered a thousand conspiracy theories. “I am sorry
they began their deliberations by so abominable a precedent as that of tying up the
tongues of their members,” Jefferson complained to John Adams.36 To guarantee
conﬁdentiality, William Jackson, the convention secretary, burned all loose scraps
of paper and entrusted the ofﬁcial journals to George Washington’s care—another
act of tremendous faith in his integrity.
On the ﬁnal day, Benjamin Franklin mentioned to some delegates that during
the previous months he had often stared at the presidential chair in which Washington sat with its image of the sun: “I have often and often in the course of the session . . . looked at that [sun] behind the president without being able to tell whether
it was rising or setting. But now at length I have the happiness to know that it is
a rising and not a setting sun.”37 After Franklin dispensed this famous aperçu, the
delegates adjourned to the City Tavern for one last round of drinks. In sending
the Constitution to Congress, Washington wisely made an understated case for approval, noting the conciliatory spirit that had led to its passage: “That it will meet
the full and entire approbation of every state is not perhaps to be expected . . . That
it is liable to as few exceptions as could reasonably have been expected, we hope and
believe.”38
On September 18, accompanied by John Blair of Virginia, Washington boarded
his newly varnished coach and set out for Mount Vernon. The two men traveled in
high style, Washington having refurbished his vehicle in Philadelphia, outﬁtting it
with glass panes, brass plates, stuffed cushions, and a new carpet. In his eagerness to
return home, he was misled into an uncharacteristic error. Near the Head of Elk he
had to ford a river swollen by torrential rains. Instead of waiting for the turbulent
waters to subside, the overly eager Washington decided to take the carriage across an
“old, rotten, and long disused” bridge, as he described it.39 One of the two harnessed
horses suddenly slid off the bridge and nearly dragged the other horse, along with
the baggage-laden carriage, into the foaming waters. Only the prompt intervention
of some nearby millers, who managed to disengage the ﬁrst horse from its harness,
prevented the total destruction of the carriage and Washington’s belongings.
At sunset on September 22 Washington’s coach pulled up before the mansion
house at Mount Vernon. That he was ready to resume his everyday life is evident
in his diary, where he jotted down his absence of “four months and 14 days.”40 The
precision of detail suggests how onerous Washington considered the lost time, and
he bewailed to a correspondent having “sacriﬁced every private consideration and

Rising Sun r! 5 4 1

personal enjoyment” to attend the convention.41 What he discovered upon returning home conﬁrmed his latent anxieties about his neglected business affairs. As he
told Henry Knox, he “found Mrs. Washington and the family tolerably well, but
the fruits of the earth almost entirely destroyed by one of the severest droughts
(in this neighborhood) that ever was experienced. The crops generally below the
mountains are injured, but not to the degree that mine and some of my neighbors’
are here.”42 For Washington, this dispiriting discovery reenacted a now-familiar tale
of making huge private sacriﬁces whenever he was forced to be away from home
for public service.

ch ap ter fort y-fiv e

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Mounting the Seat

Th e C onst i t u t ion cherished by generations of Americans was ﬁercely controversial at ﬁrst, producing heated polemics on both sides. So that its legitimacy
would derive from the people, not the state governments, the framers required
ratiﬁcation by a special convention in each state; the document would be activated
when nine states approved. By all accounts, Washington overﬂowed with enthusiasm for the new charter. When Richmond merchant Alexander Donald stayed at
Mount Vernon in early October 1787, he was impressed by Washington’s ebullient
advocacy. “I never saw him so keen for anything in my life as he is for the adoption of a new form of government,” Donald informed Jefferson.1 The months in
Philadelphia, however trying, had given Washington a needed respite from business worries and revived his faltering health. “He is in perfect good health,” Donald
wrote, “and looks almost as well as he did twenty years ago.”2
Everybody recognized the signal importance of Washington’s imprimatur
on the new charter, reassuring a public skittish about such fundamental change.
His cachet emboldened advocates (called federalists) even as it undermined critics (called antifederalists). “I have observed that your name [attached] to the new
constitution has been of inﬁnite service,” Gouverneur Morris wrote. “Indeed, I am
convinced that, if you had not attended the convention and the same paper had
been handed out to the world, it would have met with a colder reception . . . As it is,
should the idea prevail that you would not accept of the presidency, it would prove
fatal in many parts.”3
One Boston newspaper regretted that the combined prestige of Washington and
Franklin in favor of the Constitution made “too strong an argument in the minds

Mounting the Seat r! 5 43

of many to suffer them to examine, like freemen, for themselves.”4 Some antifederalists took refuge in hyperbole, portraying the Constitutional Convention as a
baleful nest of conspirators—a charge given some resonance by the secret nature
of the proceedings. “The evil genius of darkness presided at its birth; it came forth
under the veil of mystery,” wrote an opponent who styled himself “Centinel.”5 That
Washington and Franklin had mingled among those conspirators made it more difﬁcult to defame the enterprise. To bypass this problem, “Centinel” depicted Washington as an unwitting tool of “aspiring despots” who were “prostituting the name
of a Washington to cloak their designs upon your liberties.”6 Washington dismissed
such conspiracy theories as preposterous: “At my age and in my circumstances,
what sinister object or personal emolument had I to seek after in this life?”7
After a pleasing October visit from Elizabeth and Samuel Powel, Washington
had to cope with another frigid winter at Mount Vernon. Severed from the outside
world by snow, he stayed in touch by mail with federalists in many states. Resigning himself to a common eighteenth-century practice, he assumed that his letters
would be opened, telling Lafayette, “As to my sentiments with respect to the merits
of the new constitution, I will disclose them without reserve (although by passing
through the post ofﬁces they should become known to all the world) for, in truth, I
have nothing to conceal on that subject.”8
While preserving an air of Olympian detachment, Washington moved stealthily
in the background of the ratiﬁcation process, one of his chief worries being that
the Constitution’s detractors would prove more adept than its advocates. Although
he admitted to defects in the charter, he tended to regard supporters as righteous
and reasonable, opponents as wrongheaded and duplicitous. As a stalwart realist,
he thought it dangerous to demand perfection from any human production and
questioned “the propriety of preventing men from doing good, because there is
a possibility of their doing evil.”9 When Lieutenant John Enys stopped by Mount
Vernon in February, Washington explained that he had followed doggedly the constitutional debates, consuming all the pertinent literature. “He said he had read
with attention every publication,” Enys wrote, “both for and against it, in order to
see whether there could be any new objections, or that it could be placed in any
other light than what it had been in the general convention, for which . . . he said
he had sought in vain.”10
New York quickly emerged as a major locus of dissent, and Madison, based there
as a delegate in the waning days of the Confederation Congress, warned Washington of a powerful backlash gathering force: “The newspapers here begin to teem
with vehement and virulent calumniations of the proposed gov[ernmen]t.”11 After
leaving the convention in July, Hamilton had ﬁred anonymous salvos in the New
York press against Governor George Clinton, who felt threatened by centralized

544

r! The Statesm a n

power. On September 20 the Clinton forces retaliated with vicious glee, accusing
Hamilton of insinuating himself into Washington’s good graces during the war.
Said the nameless critic: “I have also known an upstart attorney palm himself upon
a great and good man, for a youth of extraordinary genius and, under the shadow
of such a patronage, make himself at once known and respected. But . . . he was at
length found to be a superﬁcial, self-conceited coxcomb and was of course turned
off and disregarded by his patron.”12 This remark hatched an enduring mythology
of a wily Hamilton tricking the dunderheaded Washington into supporting him.
Distraught over these accusations, the hypersensitive Hamilton appealed to
Washington to rebut the notion that he had imposed himself upon the commander
in chief and had then been dismissed by him: “This, I confess, hurts my feelings
and, if it obtains credit, will require a contradiction.”13 By return mail, Washington
laid both falsehoods to rest: “With respect to the ﬁrst, I have no cause to believe that
you took a single step to accomplish [it] or had the most distant [ide]a of receiving
an appointment in my [fam]ily till you were invited thereto. And [with] respect to
the second . . . your quitting [it was] altogether the effect of your own [choic]e.”14
To combat vocal foes of the Constitution in New York, Hamilton published in
late October the ﬁrst essay of The Federalist under the pen name “Publius” and
rushed a copy to Washington. Washington had told David Humphreys that the
Constitution’s acceptance would depend upon “the recommendation of it by good
pens,” and The Federalist must have seemed a case of answered prayers.15 Indeed,
the federalists possessed the preponderance of literary talent. “For the remaining
numbers of Publius,” Washington informed Hamilton, “I shall acknowledge myself
obliged, as I am persuaded the subject will be well handled by the author.”16 The
perceptive Washington saw that The Federalist transcended journalism and would
take on classic status, telling Hamilton that “when the transient circumstances and
fugitive performances which attended this crisis shall have disappeared, that work
will merit the notice of posterity.”17
In November, when Madison sent Washington the ﬁrst seven installments of
The Federalist, he admitted in conﬁdence to being one of its unnamed authors and
urged Washington to convey the essays to inﬂuential Virginians who might get
them published. Without tipping his hand, Washington became a secret partner
in the Federalist enterprise, transmitting the essays to David Stuart in Richmond.
“Altho[ugh] I am acquainted with some of the writers who are concerned in this
work,” wrote Washington, playing things close to the vest, “I am not at liberty to
disclose their names, nor would I have it known that they are sent by me to you
for promulgation.”18 To maintain the ﬂow of reprints in Virginia, Madison sent
Washington packets of new Federalist essays and bound editions as they appeared.
Curiously, Washington had not ﬁgured out that John Jay was the third member of

Mounting the Seat r! 5 45

the Federalist triumvirate. When a letter appeared in a Baltimore paper announcing
that Jay had denounced the Constitution as “a wicked conspiracy,” Madison had to
reassure Washington that the letter was “an arrant forgery.”19 In March, Henry Knox
ﬁnally let the cat out of the bag: “The publication signed Publius is attributed to the
joint efforts of Mr. Jay, Mr. Madison and Colo. Hamilton.”20
By mid-January 1788 the Constitution had been adopted by decisive margins in
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Georgia, and Connecticut. These early victories were deceptive, however, for closely contested state conventions lay ahead. The
most formidable opposition, Washington surmised, would be marshaled in New
York and Virginia. As the biggest, richest, and most populous state, Virginia had to
be the linchpin of any union. While he believed that most Virginians stood foursquare behind the Constitution, Washington conceded the inﬂuential nature of its
opponents, especially George Mason, Edmund Randolph, and Patrick Henry, who
he feared would stoop to demagoguery. With these dissenting delegates, Washington engaged in low-key lobbying, telling Randolph that the new charter was “the
best constitution that can be contained at this epoch and that this or a dissolution
of the union . . . are the only alternatives before us.”21 In a sign of subtle disenchantment with Virginia, Washington observed that it was “a little strange that the men
of large property in the south should be more afraid that the constitution should
produce an aristocracy or a monarchy than the genuine democratical people of
the east.”22 It is hard not to see a veiled criticism of southern slavery behind this
comment.
As he awaited its convention, Washington knew that, if Virginia failed to join
the union, he would be ineligible for the presidency. After the ﬁrst ﬁve states voted
for the Constitution, political wrangling intensiﬁed over the future leadership of
the impending government. In Massachusetts, scheduled to hold the sixth ratifying convention, federalists tried to woo a wavering John Hancock by promising to
support him for vice president if Washington ran for president. They also intimated
that, if Virginia didn’t ratify and Washington couldn’t run for president, they would
line up solidly behind Hancock for the top job.
By May, Massachusetts, Maryland, and South Carolina had also ratiﬁed the
Constitution, bringing the total to eight states, one short of the magic number
needed to enact it. This put additional pressure on the states that were about to
hold their conventions. Washington followed the cascading victories with mounting excitement. “The plot thickens fast,” he told Lafayette. “A few short weeks will
determine the political fate of America for the present generation and probably
produce no small inﬂuence on the happiness of society through a long succession
of ages to come.”23
In early June, as Washington visited his “aged and inﬁrm mother” in Fredericks-

5 46

r! The Statesm a n

burg, national attention turned to the Virginia Ratifying Convention.24 Though he
was ailing and felt “extremely feeble,” James Madison delivered astounding oratory
on behalf of the new charter.25 Washington’s nephew Bushrod, awed by Madison’s
talents, reported to Mount Vernon that Madison had spoken “with such force of
reasoning and a display of such irresistible truths that opposition seemed to have
quitted the ﬁeld.”26 In a pivotal shift, Governor Randolph capitulated and teamed
up with the federalists from fear that Virginia would be ostracized if it didn’t ratify.
This argument gained additional currency when New Hampshire became the ninth
state to ratify and ended all suspense about the Constitution’s future. Still unaware
of what had happened in New England, Virginia four days later approved the Constitution by a ten-vote margin. In late July New York became the eleventh state to
sign on, leaving only Rhode Island and North Carolina beyond the pale of union.
Not until June 28 did Washington receive news of the Virginia and New Hampshire victories. He must have known that these tidings would carry in their wake
an insistent plea for him to become the ﬁrst president. In backing the new charter,
Washington had waged an enormous high-stakes campaign, and his prestige soared
even higher with its enactment. “Be assured [Washington’s] inﬂuence carried this
government,” declared James Monroe.27
The town of Alexandria blazed with lights in celebration of the Constitution
as the news ricocheted up and down the Potomac by precisely timed discharges
of cannon. When Washington rode to Alexandria for a festive dinner, he “was met
some miles out of town by a party of gentlemen on horseback and escorted to the
tavern, having been saluted on his way by the light infantry company in a respectful manner,” he told Charles Cotesworth Pinckney.28 On June 3 he welcomed the
triumphant Madison back to Mount Vernon but found him worn down by the
tremendous campaign he had conducted. With paternal delicacy, Washington advised the younger man “to take a little respite from business” and linger at Mount
Vernon: “Moderate exercise and books occasionally, with the mind unbent, will be
your best restoratives.” He coaxed the harried Madison into staying for four days,
during which time the two men remained in seclusion for many hours, discussing
practical details of the upcoming government.
With the Constitution having squeaked by in Virginia, George Washington
owed an incalculable debt to Madison for making his presidency possible. Some
Virginia foes of the new charter reacted graciously in defeat. By shifting ground,
Edmund Randolph had redeemed his political future, later telling Washington that
“the constitution would never have been adopted, but from a knowledge that you
had once sanctiﬁed it and an expectation that you would execute it.”29 Quite different was the obstinacy of George Mason, which provoked a caustic aside from
Washington: “Pride on the one hand and want of manly candor on the other will

Mounting the Seat r! 5 47

not, I am certain, let him acknowledge an error in his opinions . . . though conviction should ﬂash on his mind as strongly as a ray of light.”30 What bothered
Washington was less Mason’s opposition than his bullheaded rigidity. Of Mason’s
followers, he said, “They are in the habit of thinking that everything he says and
does is right and (if capable) they will not judge for themselves.”31 As later became
clear, George Washington refused to appoint anyone to the new government who
had been overtly hostile to the Constitution that brought it into being.
Once the Constitution was adopted, Washington could not evade the question
of whether he would serve as president. He stood in a league of his own, his stature
inimitable. Like other founders, he regarded any open interest in power as unbecoming to a gentleman. As a result, he preferred to be drawn reluctantly from private
life by the irresistible summons of public service. He eschewed the word president,
as if merely saying it might connote an unsavory desire on his part. As with attending the Constitutional Convention, he again worried that people would think he
had yielded to the allure of worldly pomp and had cynically broken his pledge not
to return to public life. His usual besetting fears of failure also reemerged. Years
later, chatting conﬁdentially with Madison, Washington recalled that “he had from
the beginning found himself deﬁcient in many of the essential qualiﬁcations [for
president], owing to his inexperience in the forms of public business, his unﬁtness
to judge of legal questions and questions arising out of the constitution.”32 Once
again he was preoccupied with presumed taunts and criticisms, the inner voice of
his own unspoken fears.
For both political and psychological reasons, Washington needed to undergo
a protracted period of indecision about the presidency. Part of him felt genuinely
burdened by public life, especially since he experienced “the increasing inﬁrmities
of nature,” as he told Lafayette.33 He was torn, as always, by unacknowledged ambition mingled with self-doubt. During his October visit to Mount Vernon, Alexander Donald felt that Washington’s pro forma denial of interest in the presidency
masked his true feelings. “As the eyes of all America are turned towards this truly
great and good man for the ﬁrst president, I took the liberty of sounding him upon
it,” Donald told Jefferson. “He appears to be greatly against going into public life
again, pleads in excuse for himself his love of retirement and his advanced age. But,
notwithstanding of these, I am fully of opinion he may be induced to appear once
more on the public stage of life.”34
Having been lionized for renouncing power at the war’s end, Washington found
it hard to concede normal human ambition. In the Columbian Magazine of November 1787, a poet calling himself “Cinna” wrote rapturous verses that cast him
in superhuman terms. Evoking the universal fraud and avarice of a corrupt age,
“Cinna” held forth Washington as the rare exception, the man “Whom boundless

548

r! The Statesm a n

trust ne’er tempted to betray, / Nor power impelled to arbitrary sway.”35 Such idolatry made it difﬁcult for Washington to be truthful about his feelings. He also had to
reckon with heightened paranoia after the convention, a widespread apprehension
that the new president might transform himself into a king. The only way he could
proceed, it seemed, was to show extreme reluctance to become president, then be
swept along by others.
As his name was bruited about for president, Washington was caught in an excruciating predicament. Merely to broach the topic, even in strict conﬁdence with
friends, might seem to betray some secret craving on his part. As he later confessed
to Hamilton, he dared not seek advice: “For situated as I am, I could hardly bring the
question into the slightest discussion, or ask an opinion, even in the most conﬁdential manner, without betraying, in my judgment, some impropriety of conduct.”36
For this reason he must have been grateful to friends who talked to him forthrightly
about the presidency. A month after Washington left Philadelphia, Gouverneur
Morris told him that among the “thirteen horses now about to be coupled together,
there are some of every race and character. They will listen to your voice and submit
to your control. You therefore must, I say, must mount this seat.”37 From abroad,
Lafayette cheerfully added his voice to the chorus: “I beg you, my dear general, do
not refuse the responsibility of the presidency during the ﬁrst few years. You alone
can make this political machine operate successfully.”38 This was a powerful argument for Washington, who had gone to Philadelphia feeling that the war would be
incomplete without a new Constitution; now, he knew, the Constitution would be
incomplete without an effective new government.
Perhaps the most subtly persuasive pleas emanated from Hamilton, who could
easily picture himself holding a signiﬁcant place in a Washington administration.
He stalked Washington for the presidency with all the cunning at his disposal, piling up every good, unselﬁsh reason for running. In mid-August 1788 he wrote to
Washington and introduced the forbidden subject but never used the word president. He presented the ﬁrst presidency as the logical, nay inevitable, sequel to the
Constitutional Convention for Washington: “You will permit me to say that it is
indispensable you should lend yourself to [the new government’s] ﬁrst operations.
It is to little purpose to have introduced a system, if the weightiest inﬂuence is not
given to its ﬁrm establishment in the outset.”39 Washington had to undergo this
ritual of spurning the proffered crown. “On the delicate subject with which you
conclude your letter, I can say nothing,” Washington replied. “For you know me
well enough, my good Sir, to be persuaded that I am not guilty of affectation when I
tell you, it is my great and sole desire to live and die, in peace and retirement, on my
own farm . . . while you and some others who are acquainted with my heart would
acquit, the world and posterity might probably accuse me of inconsistency and am-

Mounting the Seat r! 5 49

bition.”40 So among those whose opinion Washington considered was posterity. He
portrayed himself as paralyzed by indecision and referred to the “dreaded dilemma
of being forced to accept or refuse” the presidency.41 Whenever he mused about the
problem, he told Hamilton, he “felt a kind of gloom upon my mind.”42
As their exchanges continued, Hamilton upped the stakes, telling Washington
he had no choice but to assume the presidency. Now older and more self-conﬁdent
than the wartime aide-de-camp, Hamilton addressed Washington as a peer. The
success of the new government was hardly self-evident, and only Washington, he
argued, could put the new Constitution to a fair test. If the ﬁrst government failed,
“the framers of it will have to encounter the disrepute of having brought about a
revolution in government, without substituting anything that was worthy of the effort.”43 Hamilton contended that Washington’s refusal to become president would
“throw everything into confusion.”44 This was what Washington yearned to hear:
that overwhelming necessity demanded that he make the supreme sacriﬁce and
serve as president.
Washington believed that the new government needed a fair trial and an auspicious start. He always credited the power of ﬁrst impressions and now imagined
that “the ﬁrst transactions of a nation, like those of an individual upon his ﬁrst
entrance into life, make the deepest impression.”45 With Madison, he employed a
powerful metaphor: “To be shipwrecked in sight of the port would be the severest
of all possible aggravations to our misery.”46
Beyond the image projected by the ﬁrst government, also important was the
fact that the ﬁrst president, in conjunction with Congress, would shape its institutional structure. In Madison’s words, the ﬁrst two years would “produce all the
great arrangements under the new system and . . . may ﬁx its tone for a long time to
come.”47 Washington knew this, but the prospect of such crushing responsibilities
only intensiﬁed his dilemma. Having sat through the Constitutional Convention,
he knew the sketchy nature of Article II, which dealt with the presidency: “I should
consider myself as entering upon an unexplored ﬁeld, enveloped on every side with
clouds and darkness.”48 He also knew the presidency would convert him into a partisan ﬁgure, threatening his chaste reputation as the personiﬁcation of America. In
this vein, the Federal Gazette of Philadelphia worried that his wartime reputation
would be blotted as he shifted from the “ﬁelds of military glory” into “the thorncovered paths of political administration.”49
The public clamor for Washington to become president arose from his heroism, his disinterested patriotism, and his willingness to surrender his wartime
command. Another, if minor, factor was his apparent sterility and lack of children,
which made it seem that he had been divinely preserved in an immaculate state to
become the Father of His Country. In March 1788, in listing the arguments for elect-

550

r! The Statesm a n

ing Washington, the Massachusetts Centinel included this one: “As having no son—
and therefore not exposing us to the danger of an hereditary successor.”50 This was
a plausible fear at a time when monarchs routinely made dynastic marriages and
when people worried that European powers would subvert the new republican government. John Adams expressed to Jefferson his relief that Washington would be
a childless president: “If General Washington had a daughter, I ﬁrmly believe she
would be demanded in marriage by one of the royal families of France or England,
perhaps by both; or, if he had a son, he would be invited to come a courting to Europe.”51 To sway Washington to run, Gouverneur Morris slyly alluded to his childless state: “You will become the father to more than three millions of children.”52
Assailed by doubts, Washington decided to serve only if convinced that “very disagreeable consequences” would result from his refusal.53 As the election drew near, he
made it plain that accepting the presidency would be his life’s most painful decision.
“Be assured, my dear sir,” he told Lafayette, “I shall assume the task with the most
unfeigned reluctance and with a real difﬁdence, for which I shall probably receive no
credit from the world.”54 One way Washington reconciled himself to the job was to
regard it as a temporary post that he would occupy only until the new government
was established on a ﬁrm footing. In early October 1788 he conﬁded to Hamilton
that, if he became president, it would be with the hope “that at a convenient and
an early period my services might be dispensed with and that I might be permitted
once more to retire.”55 In fact, Washington later admitted to Jefferson that he had
not planned to serve out a single term as president and had been “made to believe
that in 2 years all would be well in motion and he might retire.”56 It seems safe to say
that Washington never dreamed he would serve out even one full term as president,
much less two. Had he realized that his decision would entangle him in eight more
years of arduous service, he likely would never have agreed to be president.
The thing that, at a stroke, ended Washington’s vacillation was the timetable set
up by Congress for the election: presidential electors would be chosen in January
1789 and then vote in February. With his rather formal personality, Washington was
lucky that he didn’t need to engage in electioneering, for he lacked the requisite
skills for such campaigning. Had he been forced to make speeches or debate on the
stump, he would not have fared very well. Tailor-made for this transitional moment
between the patrician style of the colonial past and the rowdy populism of the Jacksonian era, Washington could remain incommunicado as the electors voted.
In late January he was heartened by signs of a resounding victory for federalists
in the ﬁrst congressional elections, showing broad-gauged support for the Constitution. “I cannot help ﬂattering myself [that] the new Congress on account of
the . . . various talents of its members will not be inferior to any assembly in the
world,” he told Lafayette.57 This would only have enhanced the presidency’s attrac-

Mounting the Seat r! 55 1

tions for Washington. If his election was predictable, it wasn’t foreordained that he
would win unanimously. In mid-January Henry Lee foresaw that even antifederalist
electors would feel obliged to vote for Washington. Casting their votes on February
4, 1789, they vindicated Lee’s prediction: all 69 electors voted for Washington, making him the only president in American history to win unanimously.
Lee also forecast with accuracy that the vote for vice president would be far
more competitive. Under electoral rules then in force, each elector cast two ballots, the victor becoming president and the runner-up vice president. About the
vice president, Washington remained studiously neutral, saying only that he would
probably come from the powerful state of Massachusetts—which boiled down to a
competition between John Adams and John Hancock. By early January Washington
had heard that Adams was the likely choice, and he let it be known that he was “entirely satisﬁed with the arrangement for ﬁlling the second ofﬁce,” especially since it
would forestall the election of an antifederalist.58
In retrospect, it seems certain that Washington would have outstripped Adams,
but some were concerned that Adams might be popular enough in the northern
states to edge out Washington as president. An unscrupulous campaign by antifederalists might sabotage Washington’s candidacy by withholding votes for him. To
prevent such a ﬁasco, Hamilton suggested privately to a few electors that they withhold votes from Adams to ensure Washington’s victory. As it turned out, Hamilton’s
fears were grossly exaggerated: Washington’s 69 votes far outpaced the 34 cast for
Adams and 9 for John Jay. Vain and thin-skinned, Adams felt demeaned by receiving only half as many votes as Washington. Hamilton had not attempted to undercut Adams so much as to protect the presidency for Washington. Nonetheless, when
Adams later learned of this covert campaign, he was outraged and faulted Hamilton
for unconscionable duplicity, poisoning relations between the two men.
Supposed to assemble on March 4, the new Congress could not put together a
quorum for another month. The reason for the delay spoke poorly for the country:
the delegates had been hampered by the “extreme badness of the roads,” Henry
Knox informed Washington.59 Confronted by many problems, the country could
ill afford this anxious interregnum. It was a discouraging start, making America
look like the backward nation of rude bumpkins derided by British Tories. Washington’s election remained unofﬁcial until the new Congress mustered a quorum
in early April. Since a landslide victory for him was widely assumed, Washington
would have been entitled to travel to New York for the opening of Congress. But
detained by a punctilious regard for form, he refused to budge until Congress ofﬁcially counted the votes on April 6. Things had proceeded much as Washington had
wished: instead of seeming to clutch at power, he had let it descend slowly upon his
shoulders, as if deposited there by the gentle hand of fate.

552

r! The Statesm a n

Just as Washington had renounced his salary as commander in chief of the Continental Army, so he tried to waive his presidential salary, but Congress insisted
adamantly that he accept it. It proved a handsome $25,000 per annum compared
to $5,000 for the vice president and $3,500 for the secretaries of state and treasury.
Washington’s desire to forgo a salary blended his past and present selves: he wanted
to display his customary noblesse oblige and advertise his freedom from ﬁnancial
care, while also acting as the ideal public servant, devoid of mercenary motives. It
was his way of emphasizing that he was less a professional politician than a gentleman graciously donating his time. In truth, Washington could not afford such magnanimity, and as he prepared for the presidency, he struggled to straighten out his
disordered ﬁnances. He breathed not a word of his ﬁnancial troubles to his political
associates, who never knew of the handicaps he overcame.
From an economic standpoint, the period after Washington’s return to Mount
Vernon in December 1783 had been complicated by numerous setbacks. The persistent failure of his corn and wheat crops, thanks in part to a severe chinch bug
infestation, had slashed his income drastically. The elements conspired against him
again when the drought of the summer of 1787 gave way to the chilly winter of
1787–88. All the while Washington’s expenses ballooned from entertaining guests
and renovating Mount Vernon’s buildings. In a painful comedown, he had been
forced repeatedly to dun delinquent debtors. Short of cash, he suffered the indignity of having to press an indebted widow for money from her husband’s estate, a
task so ghoulish he felt obliged to apologize: “I beg leave to add that it is from the
real want of [money] I make such frequent and pressing applications.”60
On the eve of the Constitutional Convention, Washington had thrown up his
hands in despair, confessing to Lund Washington that he could not balance his
books: “My estate for the last 11 years have not been able to make both ends meet . . .
I mention this for no other purpose than to show that, however willing, I am not
able to pay debts unless I could sell land—which I have publicly advertised, without ﬁnding bidders.”61 As the convention proceeded, Washington, at his wit’s end,
told George Augustine that he knew no more “than the man in the moon where I
am to get money to pay my taxes”—a shocking admission for a man universally
touted as the ﬁrst president.62 The failure of his corn crop obligated him to buy
eight hundred barrels of corn to feed his army of slaves. Preoccupied with money,
Washington hoped the ratiﬁcation of the Constitution would reverse the country’s
real estate deﬂation and alleviate his plight. The day before the Constitution was
signed, Washington notiﬁed his land agent in western Pennsylvania that he now
expected higher prices for his property: “I cannot consent to take two dollars an
acre for the land in Washington County. If the government of this country gets well
toned and property perfectly secured, I have no doubt of obtaining the price I have

Mounting the Seat r! 553

ﬁxed on the land, and that in a short time.”63 This turned out to be wishful thinking.
Forced to eliminate debt by selling land, he put up for sale a staggering 32,373 acres
in the Ohio Country.
As the ratifying conventions progressed, Washington felt a direct ﬁnancial stake
in their outcome, hoping the Constitution would restore American credit. He told
one business colleague that the loss of his corn crop and his inability to recoup
money from debtors had “caused more perplexity and given me more uneasiness
than I ever experienced before from the want of money.”64 Trapped in this predicament, he looked for salvation to the government paper he owned. These promissory notes, used to ﬁnance the Revolution, had shed most of their value because of
collapsing conﬁdence in the Confederation Congress. Washington had kept these
notes, he said, “without having an idea that they would depreciate as they were
drawn for interest . . . The injustice of this measure is too obvious and too glaring
to pass unobserved.”65 Washington understood ﬁrsthand the need for Alexander
Hamilton’s ﬁscal program as treasury secretary.
In the spring of 1788 Washington’s contemporaries would have been shocked
to know that his western taxes for 1785, 1786, and 1787 stood in arrears and that he
had posted his lands there for sale to pay them off. Hardly wishing to be a scofﬂaw
at this juncture, Washington tried to pay his taxes promptly with tobacco notes and
IOUs that he had received early in the Revolution for supplying articles to the Fairfax County militia. When he learned that Greenbrier County, where the property
was located, would not accept such forms of payment, he was enraged. The Father
of His Country was being treated with barefaced contempt for ﬁnancial stresses
arising from his wartime sacriﬁce. “I have been called upon for taxes and threatened
at the same time with a sale of the land after June, if the money is not paid before, by
the sheriff of Greenbrier County,” he wrote. “As I have been suffering loss after loss
for near[ly] ten years, while I was in the public service and have scarcely had time to
breathe since . . . this procedure seems to me to be a little hasty.”66 In another sign of
his eroding ﬁnancial position, on three occasions he rebuffed the sheriff of Fairfax
County when he came around to collect taxes due on Mount Vernon.
By June Washington had paid his outstanding taxes but still seemed cursed by
biblical extremes of weather that descended on him with unnerving regularity.
“The rains have been so frequent and abundant on my plantations that I am, in
a manner, drowned,” he complained to David Stuart. “What will become of my
corn is not easy, at this moment to decide. I am working it ankle deep in water and
mud.”67 All of Washington’s hopes of becoming a model scientiﬁc farmer had been
scuttled by bad weather.
As Virginia and New York ratiﬁed the Constitution during the summer of 1788,
Washington’s plight had only worsened. That August he told Dr. Craik that “with

55 4

r! The Statesm a n

much truth, I can say I never felt the want of money so sensibly since I was a boy
of 15 years old, as I have done for the last 12 months, and probably shall do for 12
months more to come.”68 In other words, Washington foresaw that, if he served as
president, he would assume the job amid a full-blown ﬁnancial crisis. The subsequent year must have been a strange interlude: his name was being bandied about
for president as he struggled desperately with his debt load. The day after Christmas
1788 he informed his business agent that “I have never before felt the want of cash
so severely as at present.”69 Finally, in early March 1789, after the Electoral College
unanimously chose him as president, he took an unprecedented step to salvage his
ﬁnances. He had suffered a treble blow: another year of poor crops, a continuing
inability to collect debts except through long, tedious lawsuits, and the failure to
sell land at decent prices. At this nadir of his business life, he sought a loan from a
Captain Richard Conway of Alexandria. As he told Conway, “I am inclined to do
what I never expected to be reduced to the necessity of doing—that is, to borrow
money upon interest. Five hundred pounds would enable me to discharge what I
owe in Alexandria . . . and to leave the state (if it shall not be permitted me to remain at home in retirement) without doing this, would be exceedingly disagreeable
to me.”70
No sooner had Washington received the ﬁve hundred pounds from Conway at
6 percent interest than he had to request another hundred pounds two days later for
“the expenses of my journey to New York, if I go thither.”71 It was an extraordinary
admission: Washington needed money to attend his own inauguration as president.
Even though he was shortly to receive a presidential salary, he would have to defray
the expenses of the executive mansion, imposing yet another gargantuan tax upon
his shrinking wealth. One can only imagine Washington’s humiliation in cadging
money on the eve of his presidency. It would have been especially tough on the
tender pride of a man who liked to emit an air of comfortable prosperity. That his
second request for money apparently failed could only have aggravated matters.
On March 31, 1789, Washington drew up instructions for George Augustine
Washington to guide his supervision of Mount Vernon in his absence. Washington
had implicit faith in his nephew’s integrity and entrusted him with a general power
of attorney. For the next eight years, however distracted he was by his country’s affairs, Washington would demand weekly reports down to the minute particulars of
wind and weather, and he would send long weekly responses.
Washington’s money anxiety had often expressed itself in a sharp tone toward
subordinates at Mount Vernon. His ﬁnancial troubles now added to his recurring
frustration with personnel. As his funds dwindled in 1785, he had turned his wrath
against his miller. “My miller (William Roberts) is now become such an intolerable
sot, and when drunk so great a madman,” he complained, “that, however unwill-

Mounting the Seat r! 555

ing I am to part with an old servant (for he has been with me 15 years) I cannot
with propriety or common justice to myself bear with him any longer.”72 With little
conﬁdence in his employees and a deeply rooted reluctance to delegate authority,
Washington could not have relished the thought of being absent from Mount Vernon again during his presidency.
A scalding letter that he wrote to his head carpenter, Thomas Green, on March
31, 1789—little more than two weeks before his departure for his inauguration—
shows how insecure he felt about leaving his money-losing estate. Always on guard
against alcohol abuse, which he branded “the ruin of half the workmen in this
country,” Washington was exasperated by Green’s intractable drinking problem. He
warned him that if George Augustine found him unfaithful to his engagements,
“either from the love of liquor [or] from a disposition to be running about—or
from proneness to idle[ness] when at your work,” his nephew had full power “to
discard you immediately and to remove your family from their present abode.”73
Not content to leave it at that, Washington grew hotter under the collar, reminding Green that drinking left “a body debilitated, renders him unﬁt . . . from the execution of [work]. An aching head and trembling limbs, which are the inevitable
effects of drinking, disincline the hands from work. Hence begins sloth and that
listlessness, which end in idleness.” Washington warned him sternly that for the
same wages he paid him, he could hire “the best workmen in this country.”74 It was
a curiously graceless letter for a man about to ascend to the highest ofﬁce in the
land. Clearly George Washington worried dreadfully about money and whether
Mount Vernon would lapse back into the dilapidated state he had found it in more
than ﬁve years earlier. Now he also had to wonder whether his depleted wealth
would support the enhanced celebrity he was about to enjoy as ﬁrst president of
the United States.

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
pa r t f i v e

The President

President George Washington,
painted by Gilbert Stuart, 1795–1796.

ch ap ter fort y-si x

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

The Place of Execution

Th e c ongr e s siona l de l ay in certifying Washington’s election as president
only allowed more time for doubts to fester as he faced the herculean task ahead.
He savored his wait as a welcome “reprieve,” he told Henry Knox, adding that his
“movements to the chair of government will be accompanied with feelings not unlike those of a culprit who is going to the place of his execution.”1 His “peaceful
abode” at Mount Vernon, his fears that he lacked the requisite skills for the presidency, the “ocean of difﬁculties” facing the country—all gave him pause on the eve
of his historic journey to New York.2 In a letter to Edward Rutledge, he made it seem
as if the presidency were little short of a death sentence and that, in accepting it, he
had given up “all expectations of private happiness in this world.”3 In many ways,
the presidency had already come to Mount Vernon as Washington was besieged by
obsequious letters from ofﬁce seekers. “Scarcely a day passes in which applications
of one kind or another do not arrive,” he told a correspondent.4 To simplify his life
and set a high standard for future presidents, Washington refused to favor friends
or relations in making appointments.
The day after Congress counted the electoral votes, declaring Washington the
ﬁrst president, it dispatched Charles Thomson, the secretary of Congress, to bear
the ofﬁcial announcement to Mount Vernon. The legislators had chosen a ﬁne emissary. A well-rounded ﬁgure, known for his work in astronomy and mathematics,
the Irish-born Thomson was a tall, austere man of inborn dignity with a narrow
face and keenly penetrating eyes. He couldn’t have relished the trip to Virginia,
which was “much impeded by tempestuous weather, bad roads, and the many large
rivers I had to cross.”5 Yet he rejoiced that the new president would be Washington,

56 0

r! The Pr esident

whom he revered as singled out by providence to be “the savior and father” of the
country.6 Having known Thomson since the Continental Congress, Washington
esteemed him as a faithful public servant and exemplary patriot.
Around noon on April 14, 1789, Washington ﬂung open the door at Mount Vernon and greeted his visitor with a cordial embrace. Once in the privacy of the mansion, he and Thomson conducted a stiff verbal minuet, each man reading from a
prepared text. Thomson began by declaring, “I am honored with the commands of
the Senate to wait upon your Excellency with the information of your being elected
to the ofﬁce of the President of the United States of America” by a unanimous vote.7
He read aloud a letter from Senator John Langdon of New Hampshire, the president pro tempore: “Suffer me, sir, to indulge the hope that so auspicious a mark of
public conﬁdence will meet your approbation and be considered as a sure sign of
the affection and support you are to expect from a free and enlightened people.”8
There was something deferential, even slightly servile, in Langdon’s tone, as if he
feared that Washington might renege on his pledge and refuse to take the job. Thus
was greatness once again thrust upon George Washington.
Any student of Washington’s life might have predicted that he would acknowledge his election in a short, self-effacing speech, loaded with disclaimers. “While
I realize the arduous nature of the task which is conferred on me and feel my inability to perform it,” he replied to Thomson, “I wish there may not be reason for
regretting the choice. All I can promise is only that which can be accomplished by
an honest zeal.”9 This sentiment of modesty jibed so perfectly with Washington’s
private letters that it could not have been feigned: he wondered whether he was ﬁt
for the post, so unlike anything he had ever done. The hopes for republican government, he knew, rested in his hands. As commander in chief, he been able to wrap
himself in a self-protective silence, but the presidency would leave him with no
place to hide and would expose him to public censure as nothing before.
Because the vote counting had been long delayed, Washington felt the crush
of upcoming public business and decided to set out promptly for New York on
April 16, accompanied in his elegant carriage by Thomson and David Humphreys.
His diary entry conveys a sense of foreboding: “About ten o’clock, I bade adieu to
Mount Vernon, to private life, and to domestic felicity and, with a mind oppressed
with more anxious and painful sensations than I have words to express, set out for
New York . . . with the best dispositions to render service to my country in obedience to its call, but with less hope of answering its expectations.”10 He sounded like
someone marching off, head bowed, to the gallows. Waving goodbye was Martha,
who wouldn’t join him until mid-May. She watched her husband of thirty years
depart with a mixture of bittersweet sensations, wondering “when or whether he
will ever come home again.” She had long doubted the wisdom of this ﬁnal act in

The Place of Execution r! 5 61

his public life. “I think it was much too late for him to go into public life again,”
she told her nephew, “but it was not to be avoided. Our family will be deranged as
I must soon follow him.”11
Determined to travel rapidly, Washington and his entourage set out each day at
sunrise and put in a full day on the road. Along the way he hoped to keep ceremonial distractions to a minimum, but he was soon disabused: eight exhausting days
of festivities lay ahead. He had traveled only ten miles north to Alexandria when
the townspeople waylaid him with a dinner, lengthened by the mandatory thirteen
toasts. Adept at farewells, Washington was succinctly eloquent in response: “Unutterable sensations must then be left to more expressive silence, while, from an aching heart, I bid you all, my affectionate friends and kind neighbors, farewell.”12
Before long, Washington saw that his journey would form the republican equivalent of the procession to a royal coronation. As if already a seasoned politician, he
left a trail of political promises in his wake. While in Wilmington, he addressed the
Delaware Society for Promoting Domestic Manufacturers and imparted a hopeful message: “The promotion of domestic manufactures will, in my conception,
be among the ﬁrst consequences which may naturally be expected to ﬂow from an
energetic government.”13 Arriving in Philadelphia, he was met by local dignitaries
and asked to mount a white horse for his entry into town. When he crossed a bridge
over the Schuylkill, it was wreathed with laurels and evergreens; at one point a cherubic boy, lowered above him by a mechanical device, popped a laurel crown onto
his head. Recurrent cries of “Long Live George Washington” conﬁrmed what James
McHenry had already told him before he left Mount Vernon: “You are now a king
under a different name.”14
As Washington entered Philadelphia, he found himself, willy-nilly, at the head
of a full-scale parade. Twenty thousand people lined the streets, their eyes ﬁxed
on him in wonder. “His Excellency rode in front of the procession, on horseback,
politely bowing to the spectators who ﬁlled the doors and windows by which he
passed,” reported the Federal Gazette, noting that church bells rang as Washington
proceeded to his old haunt, the City Tavern.15 After the bare-knuckled ﬁght over the
Constitution, the newspaper editorialized, Washington had brought the country together: “What a pleasing reﬂection to every patriotic mind, thus to see our citizens
again united in their reliance on this great man who is, a second time, called upon
to be the savior of his country!”16 By the next morning Washington had grown
tired of the jubilation. When the light horse cavalry showed up to accompany him
to Trenton, they discovered he had sneaked out of the city an hour earlier “to avoid
even the appearance of pomp or vain parade,” reported one newspaper.17
As Washington approached the bridge over Assunpink Creek in Trenton, the
spot where he had stood off the British and Hessians, he saw that the townsfolk had

562

r! The Pr esident

erected a magniﬁcent ﬂoral arch in his honor with the words “December 26, 1776”
sewn from leaves and ﬂowers. Another ﬂowery sentence proclaimed, “The Defenders
of the Mothers will also Defend the Daughters.”18 As he rode closer, thirteen young
girls, robed in spotless white, walked forward with ﬂower-ﬁlled baskets, scattering
petals at his feet. Astride his horse, tears standing in his eyes, he returned a deep bow
and noted the “astonishing contrast between his former and actual situation at the
same spot,” declaring he would never forget the present occasion.19 With that, three
rows of women—young girls, unmarried ladies, and married ones—burst into a
fervent ode on how he had saved fair virgins and matrons alike. Beneath his public
composure, the adulation only crystallized Washington’s self-doubt. “I greatly apprehend that my countrymen will expect too much from me,” he wrote to Rutledge.
“I fear, if the issue of public measures should not correspond with their sanguine
expectations, they will turn the extravagant . . . praises which they are heaping upon
me at this moment into equally extravagant . . . censures.”20 There was no way, it
seemed, that he could lower expectations or escape public reverence.
As Washington approached New York City, a parallel journey from Mount
Vernon was in progress that, in many ways, was no less fascinating. Billy Lee, the
slave and manservant with whom he had shared so many exploits, longed to join
Washington for the inauguration. Once a physical specimen perhaps as imposing
as his master, Lee had by now fractured both knees, but he still wanted to make
the journey and serve in the presidential household, where he would have to climb
three ﬂights of stairs. Dubious that Lee could do it, Washington tried to dissuade
him from coming. Nevertheless he always found it difﬁcult to resist Lee’s pleas and
ﬁnally consented that he should travel to the inauguration with Tobias Lear.
When Lear and Lee reached Philadelphia around April 19, Lee’s inﬂamed knees
made it impossible for him to soldier on. Lear contacted Clement Biddle and asked
if he could minister to Lee until the slave was ready to complete his journey. “Will
appears to be in too bad a state to travel at present,” Lear wrote. “I shall therefore
leave him and will be much obliged to you if you will send him on to New York as
soon as he can bear the journey without injury, which I expect will be in two or
three days. I shall pay his expenses . . . He dresses his knee himself and therefore
will stand in no need of a doctor, unless it should grow worse.”21 In a remarkable act
of faith in Lee’s ﬁdelity as a slave, Lear left him in Philadelphia while he proceeded
to New York. For more than a month, Biddle gave Lee excellent care, calling in two
doctors to treat his knee. He even had a steel brace manufactured at “heavy expense” that enabled him to walk, though with difﬁculty.22 The care lavished on Billy
Lee again conﬁrms that Washington treated him in a singular way among his slaves
and dealt with him as a man whose pride and feelings had to be taken into account.
From his behavior, it is clear that Washington felt the need to reason with Lee, as

The Place of Execution r! 5 63

if he were an employee, instead of simply bossing him about as a slave. Of course,
Lee’s exceptional treatment only pointed up the powerless state of other slaves.
Although Lee missed the inauguration, he still yearned for a job in the presidential household. A few days after Washington was inaugurated, Lear wrote to Biddle
and tried again to discourage Lee from coming to New York, pointing out that “he
cannot possibly be of any service here” and expressing the hope that he would catch
the “ﬁrst vessel that sails for Alex[andri]a” after he recuperated.23 Lee remained obdurate. Submitting to the slave’s wish, Lear instructed Biddle that, if Lee was “still
anxious to come on here, the president would gratify him, altho[ugh] he will be
troublesome. He has been an old and faithful serv[an]t. This is enough for the
president to gratify him in every reasonable wish.”24 On June 22 Lear informed
Biddle that “Billy arrived here safe and well.”25 Again, Lear spared no expense with
Lee, who was brought by coach from the ferry stop to the presidential mansion.
To dress him up for his new duties, Lear went out and got him suitable stockings.
Unwilling to spurn Lee’s demand for a place in the executive residence, Washington
allowed him to work there, probably as a butler, during his ﬁrst term, even though
Lee had, by some accounts, become difﬁcult and temperamental.

By now s at e d w i t h a du l at ion, Washington preserved a faint hope that he
would be allowed to make an inconspicuous entry into New York and pleaded with
Governor George Clinton to spare him further hoopla: “I can assure you, with the
utmost sincerity, that no reception can be so congenial to my feelings as a quiet entry devoid of ceremony.”26 But he was fooling himself if he imagined he might slip
unobtrusively into the temporary capital. Never reconciled to the demands of his
celebrity, Washington still fantasized that he could shuck that inescapable burden.
When he arrived at Elizabethtown on April 23, an impressive phalanx of three senators, ﬁve congressmen, and three state ofﬁcials awaited him. He must have intuited,
with a sinking sensation, that this welcome would eclipse even the frenzied receptions in Philadelphia and Trenton. Moored to the wharf was a special presidential
barge, glistening with fresh paint, constructed in his honor and equipped with an
awning of red curtains in the rear to shelter him from the elements. To nobody’s
surprise, the craft was steered by thirteen oarsmen in spanking white uniforms.
As the barge drifted into the Hudson River, Washington made out a Manhattan
shoreline already “crowded with a vast concourse of citizens, waiting with exulting
anxiety his arrival,” a local newspaper said.27 Many ships anchored in the harbor
were garlanded with ﬂags and banners. If Washington gazed back at the receding
Jersey shore, he would have seen that his craft led a huge ﬂotilla of boats, including
one bearing the portly ﬁgure of Henry Knox. Some boats carried musicians and

564

r! The Pr esident

female vocalists on deck, serenading Washington across the waters. “The voices of
the ladies were superior to the ﬂutes that played with the stroke of the oars in Cleopatra’s silken-corded barge,” was the imaginative verdict of the New York Packet.28
These wafted melodies, enhanced by repeated cannon roar and thunderous acclaim
from crowds onshore, again oppressed Washington with their implicit message of
high expectations. As he conﬁded to his diary, the intermingled sounds “ﬁlled my
mind with sensations as painful (considering the reverse of this scene, which may
be the case after all my labors to do good) as they are pleasing.”29 To guard himself
against later disappointment, he seemed not to allow himself the smallest iota of
pleasure.
When the presidential barge landed at the foot of Wall Street, Governor Clinton,
Mayor James Duane, James Madison, and other luminaries welcomed him to the
city. The ofﬁcer of a special military escort stepped forward briskly and told Washington that he awaited his orders. Washington again labored to cool the celebratory
mood. “As to the present arrangement,” he replied, “I shall proceed as is directed.
But after this is over, I hope you will give yourself no further trouble, as the affection of my fellow-citizens is all the guard I want.”30 Nobody seemed to take the hint
seriously.
The streets were solidly thronged with well-wishers, and it took Washington a
full hour to arrive at his new residence at 3 Cherry Street, tucked away in the northeastern corner of the city, a block from the East River, near the present-day Brooklyn Bridge. One week earlier the building’s owner, Samuel Osgood, had agreed to
lease it to Congress as the temporary presidential residence. The descriptions of
Washington’s demeanor en route to the house conﬁrm that he ﬁnally surrendered
to the general high spirits, especially when he viewed the legions of adoring women.
As Elias Boudinot told his wife, Washington “frequently bowed to the multitude
and took off his hat to the ladies at the windows, who waved their handkerchiefs
and threw ﬂowers before him and shed tears of joy and congratulation. The whole
city was one scene of triumphal rejoicing.”31
America’s second-largest city, with a population of about thirty thousand, New
York was a small, provincial town compared to European capitals. Lavishly appointed carriages sped through streets heaped with horse droppings and rubbish.
Rich and robust, New York already had a raucous commercial spirit that grated on
squeamish sensibilities. “New York is less citiﬁed than Philadelphia,” said a French
visitor, “but the bustle of trade is far greater.”32 Before the war John Adams, passing
through town, huffed that “with all the opulence and splendor of this city, there
is very little good breeding to be found. There is no modesty. No attention to one
another. They talk very loud, very fast, and all together.”33 Although Vice President
Adams had arrived before Washington, the town did not endear itself to him on this

The Place of Execution r! 5 65

trip either. Congress had failed to locate a residence for the new vice president, who
lodged with John Jay for several weeks.
New York had not yet recovered fully from the dislocations of the war. First Americans and then Britons had uprooted trees and fences for ﬁrewood, leaving weedstrewn lots in their path. In the aftermath of the British occupation, said Mayor Duane,
New York resembled a place that “had been inhabited by savages or wild beasts.”34 The
great conﬂagration that consumed a quarter of the city in 1776 had left behind blocks
of rubble and skeletal houses, some of them yet to be razed. Like many ports, New
York catered to a rough, brawling population of sailors and traders and boasted more
than four hundred taverns. One French visitor in the 1790s expressed surprise that the
city had “whole sections given over to streetwalkers for the plying of their profession”
and that it was ﬁlled with “houses of debauchery.”35 With its wealthy merchants and
brawny laborers, the city already presented a picture of vivid extremes.

Though t h e C onst i t u t ion s a i d no t h i ng about an inaugural address,
Washington, in an innovative spirit, contemplated such a speech as early as January
1789 and asked a “gentleman under his roof ”—David Humphreys—to draft one.36
Washington had always been economical with words, but the collaboration with
Humphreys produced a wordy document, seventy-three pages long, which survives
only in tantalizing snippets. In this curious speech, Washington spent a ridiculous
amount of time defending his decision to become president, as if he stood accused
of some heinous crime. He denied that he had accepted the presidency to enrich
himself, even though nobody had accused him of greed: “In the ﬁrst place, if I have
formerly served the community without a wish for pecuniary compensation, it can
hardly be suspected that I am at present inﬂuenced by avaricious schemes.”37 Addressing a topical concern, he disavowed any desire to found a dynasty, pleading his
childless state. Closer in tone to future inaugural speeches was his ringing expression of faith in the American people. He devised a perfect formulation of popular
sovereignty, writing that the Constitution had brought forth “a government of the
people: that is to say, a government in which all power is derived from, and at stated
periods reverts to, them—and that, in its operation . . . is purely a government of
laws made and executed by the fair substitutes of the people alone.”38 Showing an
Enlightenment spirit, he generalized the American Revolution into a movement
blazing a path toward the universal triumph of freedom: “I rejoice in a belief that
intellectual light will spring up in the dark corners of the earth; that freedom of
inquiry will produce liberality of conduct; that mankind will reverse the absurd
position that the many were made for the few; and that they will not continue slaves
in one part of the globe, when they can become freemen in another.”39

566

r! The Pr esident

This ponderous speech never saw the light of day. Washington sent a copy to
James Madison, who wisely vetoed it on two counts: it was much too long, and its
lengthy legislative proposals would be interpreted as executive meddling with the
legislature. Instead, Madison drafted for Washington a far more compact speech
that avoided tortured introspection. A whirlwind of energy, Madison would seem
omnipresent in the early days of Washington’s administration. He drafted not only
the inaugural address but also the ofﬁcial response by Congress and then Washington’s response to Congress, completing the circle. This service established Madison,
despite his major role in the House, as a preeminent adviser and conﬁdant to the
new president. Oddly enough, he was not troubled that his advisory relationship to
Washington might be construed as violating the separation of powers.
Washington knew that everything he did at the swearing-in would establish a
tone for the future. “As the ﬁrst of everything in our situation will serve to establish
a precedent,” he reminded Madison, “it is devoutly wished on my part that these
precedents may be ﬁxed on true principles.”40 He would shape indelibly the institution of the presidency. Although he had earned his reputation in battle, he made
a critical decision not to wear a uniform at the inauguration or beyond, banishing fears of a military coup. Instead, he would stand there aglitter with patriotic
symbols. To spur American manufactures, he would wear a double-breasted brown
suit made from broadcloth woven at the Woolen Manufactory of Hartford, Connecticut.41 The suit had gilt buttons with an eagle insignia on them; to complete his
outﬁt, he would wear white hosiery, silver shoe buckles, and yellow gloves. Washington already sensed that Americans would emulate their presidents. “I hope it
will not be a great while before it will be unfashionable for a gentleman to appear in
any other dress,” he told Lafayette, referring to his American attire. “Indeed, we have
already been too long subject to British prejudices.”42 To burnish his image further
on inauguration day, Washington powdered his hair and wore a dress sword on his
hip, sheathed in a steel scabbard.
The inauguration took place at the building at Wall and Nassau streets that had
long served as New York’s City Hall. It came richly laden with historical associations, having hosted John Peter Zenger’s trial in 1735, the Stamp Act Congress of
1765, and the Confederation Congress from 1785 to 1788. Starting in September 1788,
the French engineer Pierre-Charles L’Enfant had remodeled it into Federal Hall, a
suitable home for Congress. L’Enfant introduced a covered arcade at street level
and a balcony surmounted by a triangular pediment on the second story. As the
people’s chamber, the House of Representatives was accessible to the public, situated in a high-ceilinged octagonal room on the ground ﬂoor, while the Senate met
in a second-ﬂoor room, buffering it from popular pressure. From this room Washington would emerge onto the balcony to take the oath of ofﬁce. In many ways,

The Place of Execution r! 5 6 7

the ﬁrst inauguration was a hasty, slapdash affair. As with all theatrical spectacles,
rushed preparations and frantic work on the new building continued until a few
days before the event. Nervous anticipation spread through the city as to whether
the two hundred workmen would complete the project on time. Only a few days
before the inauguration, an eagle was hoisted onto the pediment, completing the
building. The ﬁnal effect was stately: a white building with a blue and white cupola
topped by a weathervane.
A little after noon on April 30, 1789, following a morning ﬁlled with clanging
church bells and prayers, a contingent of troops on horseback, accompanied by
carriages loaded with legislators, stopped at Washington’s Cherry Street residence.
Escorted by David Humphreys and Tobias Lear, the president-elect stepped into
his carriage, which was trailed by foreign dignitaries and crowds of joyous citizens.
The procession wound slowly through the narrow Manhattan streets, emerging
two hundred yards from Federal Hall. After alighting from his carriage, Washington strode through a double line of soldiers to the building and mounted to the
Senate chamber, where members of Congress awaited him expectantly. As he entered, Washington bowed to both houses of the legislature—his invariable mark of
respect—then occupied an imposing chair up front. A profound hush settled on
the room. Vice President Adams rose for an ofﬁcial greeting, then informed Washington that the epochal moment had arrived: “Sir, the Senate and House of Representatives are ready to attend you to take the oath required by the constitution.” “I
am ready to proceed,” Washington replied.43
As he stepped through the door onto the balcony, a spontaneous roar surged
from the multitude tightly squeezed into Wall and Broad streets and covering every
roof in sight. This open-air ceremony would conﬁrm the sovereignty of the citizens
gathered below. Washington’s demeanor was stately, modest, and deeply affecting:
he clapped one hand to his heart and bowed several times to the crowd. Surveying
the serried ranks of people, one observer said they were jammed so closely together
that “it seemed one might literally walk on the heads of the people.”44 Thanks to his
simple dignity, integrity, and unrivaled sacriﬁces for his country, Washington’s conquest of the people was complete. A member of the crowd, the Count de Moustier,
the French minister, noted the solemn trust between Washington and the citizens
who stood packed below him with uplifted faces. As he reported to his government,
never had “sovereign reigned more completely in the hearts of his subjects than
did Washington in those of his fellow citizens . . . He has the soul, look, and ﬁgure
of a hero united in him.”45 One young woman in the crowd echoed this when she
remarked, “I never saw a human being that looked so great and noble as he does.”46
Only Congressman Fisher Ames of Massachusetts noted that “time has made havoc”
upon Washington’s face, which already looked haggard and careworn.47

568

r! The Pr esident

The sole constitutional requirement for the swearing-in was that the president
take the oath of ofﬁce. That morning a congressional committee decided to add
solemnity by having Washington place his hand on a Bible during the oath, leading
to a frantic, last-minute scramble to ﬁnd one. A Masonic lodge came to the rescue
by providing a thick Bible, bound in deep brown leather and set on a crimson velvet
cushion. By the time Washington appeared on the portico, the Bible rested on a
table draped in red velvet.
The crowd grew silent as New York chancellor Robert R. Livingston administered the oath to Washington, who was visibly moved. As he ﬁnished the oath, he
bent forward, seized the Bible, and brought it to his lips. Washington felt this moment from the bottom of his soul: one observer noted the “devout fervency” with
which he “took the oath and the reverential manner in which he bowed down and
kissed the Bible.”48 Legend has it that he added “So help me God,” though this line
was ﬁrst reported sixty-ﬁve years later. Whether or not Washington actually said it,
very few people would have heard him anyway, since his voice was soft and breathy.
For the crowd below, the oath of ofﬁce was enacted as a kind of dumbshow. Livingston had to lift his voice and inform the crowd, “It is done.” He then intoned:
“Long Live George Washington, President of the United States.”49 The spectators
responded with huzzas and chants of “God bless our Washington! Long live our
beloved President!”50 They celebrated in the only way they knew, as if greeting a
new monarch with the customary cry of “Long Live the King!”
When the balcony ceremony was concluded, Washington returned to the Senate chamber to deliver his inaugural address. In an important piece of symbolism,
Congress rose as he entered, then sat down after Washington bowed in response.
In England, the House of Commons stood during the king’s speeches, so that the
seated Congress immediately established a sturdy equality between the legislative
and executive branches.
As Washington began his speech, he seemed ﬂustered and thrust his left hand
into his pocket while turning the pages with a trembling right hand. His weak voice
was barely audible. Fisher Ames evoked him thus: “His aspect grave, almost to sadness; his modesty, actually shaking; his voice deep, a little tremulous, and so low as
to call for close attention.”51 Those present attributed Washington’s low voice and
fumbling hands to anxiety. “This great man was agitated and embarrassed more
than ever he was by the leveled cannon or pointed musket,” said Senator William
Maclay in sniggering tones. “He trembled and several times could scarce make out
to read, though it must be supposed he had often read it before.”52 Washington’s
agitation might have arisen from a developing neurological disorder or might simply have been a bad case of nerves. The new president had long been famous for
his physical grace, but the sole gesture he used for emphasis in his speech seemed

The Place of Execution r! 5 6 9

clumsy—“a ﬂourish with his right hand,” said Maclay, “which left rather an ungainly impression.”53 For the next few years Maclay would be a close, unsparing
observer of the new president’s quirks and tics.
In the ﬁrst line of his inaugural address, Washington expressed anxiety about
his ﬁtness for the presidency, saying that “no event could have ﬁlled me with greater
anxieties” than the news brought to him by Charles Thomson.54 He had grown
despondent, he said candidly, as he considered his own “inferior endowments from
nature” and his lack of practice in civil government.55 He drew comfort, however,
from the fact that the “Almighty Being” had overseen America’s birth: “No people can be bound to acknowledge and adore the invisible hand, which conducts
the affairs of men, more than the people of the United States.”56 Perhaps referring
obliquely to the fact that he suddenly seemed older, he called Mount Vernon “a
retreat which was rendered every day more necessary, as well as more dear to me,
by the addition of habit to inclination and of frequent interruptions in my health
to the gradual waste committed on it by time.”57 In the earlier inaugural address
drafted with David Humphreys, Washington had included a disclaimer about his
health, telling how he had “prematurely grown old in the service of my country.”58
Setting the pattern for future inaugural speeches, Washington did not delve into
minute policy matters but outlined the big themes that would govern his administration, the foremost being the triumph of national unity over “local prejudices or
attachments” that might subvert the country or even tear it apart.59 National policy
needed to be rooted in private morality, which relied on the “eternal rules of order
and right” ordained by heaven itself.60 On the other hand, Washington refrained
from endorsing any particular form of religion. Knowing how much was riding on
this attempt at republican government, he said that “the sacred ﬁre of liberty, and
the destiny of the republican model of government, are justly considered as deeply,
perhaps as ﬁnally staked, on the experiment entrusted to the hands of the American
people.”61
After this speech, Washington led a broad procession of delegates up Broadway,
along streets ﬂanked by armed militia, to an Episcopal prayer service at St. Paul’s
Chapel, where he was given his own canopied pew. After these devotions ended,
Washington had his ﬁrst chance to relax until the evening festivities. That night lower
Manhattan was converted into a shimmering fairyland of lights. From the residences
of Chancellor Livingston and General Knox, Washington observed the ﬁreworks at
Bowling Green, a pyrotechnic display that ﬂashed in the sky for two hours. Washington’s image was displayed in transparencies hung in many windows, throwing glowing images into the night. Such a celebration, ironically, would have been familiar to
Washington from the days when new royal governors arrived in Williamsburg and
were greeted by bonﬁres, ﬁreworks, and illuminations in every window.

57 0

r! The Pr esident

All of New York was astir with the evening festivities, and Washington had
trouble returning to Cherry Street with Tobias Lear and David Humphreys. “We returned home at ten on foot,” wrote Lear, “the throng of people being so great as not
to permit a carriage to pass through it.”62 The comment shows how closely people
pressed against Washington in the thickly peopled streets. By the time he went to
bed, he had initiated many enduring customs for presidential inaugurations, including the procession to the swearing-in venue, taking the oath of ofﬁce en plein
air, delivering an inaugural speech, and holding a gigantic celebration that evening.
Because Martha was still absent, the inaugural ball was deferred until May.
The odyssey of George Washington from insecure young colonel in the French
and Indian War, through his tenure as commander in chief of the Continental Army,
and now to president of the new government, must have seemed an almost dreamlike progression to him. Perhaps nothing underlined this improbable turn of events
more than the extraordinary fact that while Washington had debated whether to
become president that winter, on the other side of the ocean King George III had
descended into madness. In late January Samuel Powel conveyed this startling piece
of news to Washington: “I do not recollect any topic which, at present, occupies
the conversation of men so much as the insanity of the king of Great Britain. I am
told . . . that Dr. Franklin’s observation upon hearing the report was that he had
long been of opinion that the King of Great Britain was insane, tho[ugh] it had not
been declared to the world till now.”63
There was nothing vindictive in Washington’s nature, no itching for retribution, and he reacted with sympathy to news of the king’s malady. “Be the cause
of the British king’s insanity what it may,” he told Powel, “his situation . . . merits
commiseration.”64 The strangely contrasting fates of the two Georges grew stranger
still in late February, when Gouverneur Morris reported from Paris an unlikely
development in the king’s madness. “By the bye,” he wrote to Washington, “in the
melancholy situation to which the poor King of England has been reduced, there
were, I am told, in relation to you, some whimsical circumstances.” In a deranged
ﬁt, wrote Morris, the king had “conceived himself to be no less a personage than
George Washington at the head of the American Army. This shows that you have
done something or other which sticks most terribly in his stomach.”65 The delusion proved ﬂeeting. On April 23, 1789, exactly one week before George Washington
was sworn in to cheering crowds, George III recovered so miraculously from his
delusional state that a thanksgiving service was conducted at St. Paul’s Cathedral
in London. It is hypothesized by some that he had suffered from a rare hereditary
disorder called porphyria, a condition not properly diagnosed until the twentieth
century. Restored to his senses, he had to contemplate the sobering reality that the

The Place of Execution r! 57 1

upstart George Washington, who had once scrounged for advancement in his royal
army, now served as president of an independent American republic.

M a rt h a Wa sh i ngt on wa sn ’t t h r i l l e d at being ﬁrst lady and, like her
husband, talked about the presidency as an indescribable calamity that had befallen
her. She professed a lack of interest in politics, having told her niece Fanny the previous year that “we have not a single article of news but politic[s], which I do not
concern myself about.”66 Whether she was really so blasé about politics, or merely
preferred not to express her opinions, is unclear. The tone of her letters grew wistful as she thought about New York. She and her husband had already sacriﬁced
more than eight years to the war, and after so much hardship Mount Vernon had
seemed like their long-deserved sanctuary. Now Washington’s presidency would
likely eliminate any chance for a private ﬁnal phase of their lives. Martha couldn’t
have found it easy to be married to a man who was also married to the nation, but
she understood his reasoning in becoming president, telling Mercy Otis Warren
that she could not blame him “for having acted according to his ideas of duty in
obeying the voice of his country.”67
Martha Washington never deﬁed her husband openly, but when forced to do
anything against her will, she could be quietly willful. She would pout and sulk
and drag her feet in silence. In one letter Washington said that he wanted to be
“well ﬁxed at New York” before he sent for her, but one suspects that Martha’s delay
reﬂected her disinclination to leave Virginia.68 A few days after his inauguration,
Washington wrote with some urgency to George Augustine, asking him to hasten
Martha’s departure, “for we are extremely desirous of seeing her here.”69 This suggests that her delay had lasted longer than expected. By that point, Washington
knew that she would miss the ceremonial ball planned for May 7 at the Assembly
Rooms on Broadway. Evidently Martha’s presence had been anticipated, for a special elevated sofa had been created that would enable the president and ﬁrst lady to
preside in state over the celebration.
On May 14 Washington’s nephew, nineteen-year-old Robert Lewis, arrived at
Mount Vernon to escort his aunt to New York and discovered with amazement that
“everything appeared to be in confusion.”70 Martha was still supervising the packing in an unusually chaotic scene for this well-organized woman. Finally on May
16, with one wagon heaped with nothing but baggage, she piled into her coach with
her two grandchildren, Nelly and Washy, accompanied by a retinue of six slaves. As
a crowd of slaves clustered around the departing group, emotions ran high. “The
servants of the house and a number of the ﬁeld Negroes made their appearance

572

r! The Pr esident

to take leave of their mistress,” Robert Lewis recorded in his journal. “Numbers
of these poor wretches seemed greatly agitated, much affected. My aunt equally
so.”71 The slaves’ tears were surely genuine, but one wonders whether they were
shed for the six friends and family members being forcibly relocated to New York;
perhaps the remaining slaves feared mistreatment at the hands of overseers in the
Washingtons’ absence. Martha decided to take two personal slaves, Molly (or Moll)
and a sixteen-year-old mulatto girl named Ona (or Oney) Judge, who had become
her favorite. Two other slaves, Austin and Christopher Sheels, would act as waiters
in New York, while Giles and Paris, who had accompanied Washington to the Constitutional Convention, would reprise their roles as coachmen.
The Martha Washington who set out for New York was a more matronly woman
than the doughty wife who showed up regularly at the Continental Army camp
each winter. Like her husband, she now wore spectacles on occasion. Ever dutiful,
she did her best to live up to her new station on the national scene. With political instincts to rival her husband’s, she had ordered green and brown wool from
Hartford to make riding costumes for herself and was lauded in the press for being
“clothed in the manufacture of our country.”72
En route to New York, Martha had no better luck than her husband in escaping
the hordes who competed to greet her. Nevertheless, as she got her ﬁrst taste of being ﬁrst lady—the term was not adopted until later administrations—she experienced a rising sense of excitement. Upon reaching the outskirts of Philadelphia, she
was hailed by the state’s chief executive, and a cavalry honor guard conducted her
into town. On May 27 the new president took time out from his duties to receive his
wife at Elizabethtown, where she got the same tumultuous reception bestowed on
him a month earlier. As Martha wrote appreciatively to Fanny, the welcoming committee had come “with the ﬁne barge you have seen so much said of in the papers,
with the same oarsmen that carried the P[resident] to New York.”73 Little Washy
Custis was ﬂabbergasted by the boat ride and by the grand parade that swept up
the entire party the moment the big, burly governor of New York, George Clinton,
received them on the Manhattan side. Meanwhile sister Nelly spent hours at the
window on Cherry Street, transﬁxed by the fancy carriages passing down below.
No sooner had she arrived in the capital than Martha learned that she would be
a prop in an elaborate piece of political theater. One day after her arrival, she had
to host a dinner for congressional leaders, and the day after that, all of New York
society seemed to cram into the Cherry Street mansion for her ﬁrst reception—a
function for which she had not been consulted. She was plunged into a giddy whirl
of activity. “I have not had one half hour to myself since the day of my arrival,” she
told Fanny in early June.74 She narrated this abrupt transformation with a note
of quiet wonder: the woman who had been dubious about this new life sounded

The Place of Execution r! 57 3

positively breathless with amazement. She had been taken in hand by a professional
hairdresser, a novel experience for her. “My hair is set and dressed every day and
I have put on white muslin habits for the summer,” she wrote home in early June.
“You would, I fear, think me a good deal in the fashion if you could but see me.”75
The town was enchanted with Martha Washington, whose conviviality offset
her husband’s reserve. She won over the toughest critic: the wife of the vice president, who found her the perfect republican counterpart of her husband. “I took
the earliest opportunity . . . to go and pay my respects to Mrs. Washington,” Abigail
Adams informed her sister. “She received me with great ease and politeness. She is
plain in her dress, but that plainness is the best of every article . . . Her hair is white,
her teeth beautiful, her person rather short than otherwise.”76 The favorable impression grew upon second viewing: “Mrs. Washington is one of those unassuming
characters which create love and esteem. A most becoming pleasantness sits upon
her countenance and an unaffected deportment which renders her the object of
veneration and respect.”77
A pragmatic woman, Martha Washington resigned herself to the duties of a
presidential wife, but a distinct touch of discontent lingered. She was quietly rebellious, chaﬁng at her restricted freedom. In late October she unburdened herself to
Fanny: “I live a very dull life here and know nothing that passes in the town. I never
go to the public place. Indeed, I think I am more like a state prisoner than anything
else.” She complained of “certain bounds set for me which I must not depart from.
And as I cannot do as I like, I am obstinate and stay at home a great deal.”78 Obviously there were limits to her acquiescence, and she adopted an increasingly satiric
tone when talking about the fashionable people of New York. When she sent Fanny
a watch, she described it as “of the newest fashion, if that has any inﬂuence on your
taste.” Then she added tartly: “It will last as long as the fashion—and by that time
you can get another of a fashionable kind.”79
At year’s end Martha Washington aired her frustrations to Mercy Otis Warren,
pointing out that her grandchildren and Virginia family constituted the major source
of her happiness: “I shall hardly be able to ﬁnd any substitute that would indemnify
me for the loss of a part of such endearing society.”80 She knew other women would
gladly swap places with her: “With respect to myself, I sometimes think the arrangement is not quite as it ought to have been—that I, who had much rather be at home,
should occupy a place with which a great many younger and gayer women would be
prodigiously pleased.”81 But she would not rail against her destiny: “I am still determined to be cheerful and to be happy in whatever situation I may be, for I have also
learned from experience that the greater part of our happiness or misery depends
upon our dispositions and not upon our circumstances.”82 To the end of her life, Martha Washington would speak forlornly of the presidential years as her “lost days.”83

ch ap ter fort y-sev en

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Acting the Presidency

Wh e n Ge orge Wa sh i ngt on be c a m e pr e si de n t, the executive departments had not yet been formed or their chieftains installed, so he placed unusual
reliance on his personal secretaries, whom he dubbed “the gentlemen of the household.”1 He put a premium on efﬁciency, good manners, discretion, and graceful writing. The staff mainstay was Harvard-educated Tobias Lear, the agreeable young man
brought up from Mount Vernon. In these early days Lear was a man for all seasons:
dashing off private letters for Washington, cranking out dinner invitations, tending ﬁles, tutoring grandchildren, accompanying Washington on afternoon strolls
or Martha on shopping sprees. So trusted was Lear that he kept the household accounts, and Washington turned to him for petty cash. His loyalty had no limits. “I
have never found a single thing that could lessen my respect for him,” Lear remarked
of Washington. “A complete knowledge of his honesty, uprightness, and candor in
all his private transactions has sometimes led me to think him more than a man.”2
When Lear married Polly Long in April 1790—Martha called her “a pretty, sprightly
woman”—the Washingtons invited the young couple to share their household, enriching their lives with an extended family as they had done at Mount Vernon.3
For a second secretary, Washington retained David Humphreys, with his agile
pen. Now seasoned by diplomatic experience in Paris with Jefferson, Humphreys
advised Washington on questions of etiquette and was anointed chamberlain, or
master of ceremonies, for the administration. The third team member was Major
William Jackson, an orphan from South Carolina who had won high marks as secretary of the Constitutional Convention, having taken notes of the deliberations
while preserving their secrecy—a man of discretion after Washington’s own heart.

Acting the Presidency r! 575

The closest that Washington came to a security guard, Jackson remained a protective presence at his side, whether he was out walking, riding, or performing ofﬁcial
duties. Rounding out the group were Thomas Nelson, Jr., son of the late Virginia
governor, and Washington’s young nephew Robert Lewis, who had escorted his
aunt Martha to New York.
Among members of Congress, James Madison stood in a class by himself in his
advisory capacity to Washington. When he ran for Congress, Madison had consulted
Washington about how to campaign without descending to crass electioneering. It
is not surprising that Washington leaned on Madison early in his presidency, since
nobody possessed a more nuanced grasp of the Constitution. In 1789 Congress had
to shape both the executive and the judicial branches, which would act to enhance
Madison’s prestige. Gradually, as the three branches of government assumed more
separate characters and political differences between the two men surfaced, Madison shed his advisory role.
By the time Washington was sworn in, the federal government had already been
set in motion; the ﬁrst order of business was to generate money to guarantee the
new government’s survival. Three weeks before the inauguration, Madison introduced in the House a schedule of duties on imported goods to provide revenues.
Nothing better proclaimed the new government’s autonomy: the impotent Confederation Congress had never commanded an independent revenue stream.
Washington’s ﬁrst days in ofﬁce were dominated by seemingly trivial symbolic
issues that spoke to larger questions about the character of the new government.
“Many things which appear of little importance in themselves . . . at the beginning
may have great and durable consequences, from their having been established at the
commencement of a new general government,” Washington instructed Vice President Adams.4 Every action, he knew, would be subjected to exhaustive scrutiny:
“My political conduct . . . must be exceedingly circumspect and proof against just
criticism, for the eyes of Argus [the hundred-eyed monster in Greek mythology]
are upon me and no slip will pass unnoticed.”5 Washington had long felt those
searching eyes trained upon him and would try hard as president to be a paragon.
Of the various government posts, it was the presidency that had the potential
to slip into monarchy and subvert republican government, so every decision made
about it aroused a ﬁrestorm of controversy. For many Americans, presidential
etiquette seemed like the back door through which aristocratic corruption might
inﬁltrate the system. On April 23 the Senate appointed a committee to devise suitable titles for addressing the president. Vice President Adams favored highfalutin
ones. “A royal, or at least a princely, title, will be found indispensably necessary to
maintain the reputation, authority, and dignity of the president,” he insisted.6 The
ﬁnal Senate recommendation was absurdly pretentious: “His Highness, the Presi-

57 6

r! The Pr esident

dent of the United States of America, and Protector of their Liberties.”7 Sensitive to
criticism that high-ﬂown titles were reminiscent of monarchy, Washington gladly
accepted the simpler form adopted by the House: “The President of the United
States.” An approving Madison later noted that Washington had been irritated by
efforts to “bedizen him with a superb but spurious title.”8 The controversy served
notice on Washington that such matters had powerful resonance as the new republic tried to ﬁnd digniﬁed forms that didn’t smack of European decadence. “Nothing
could equal the ferment and disquietude occasioned by the proposition respecting
titles,” David Stuart wrote from Virginia. “As it is believed to have originated from
Mr. Adams and [Richard Henry] Lee, they are not only unpopular to an extreme,
but highly odious.”9
For Washington, the etiquette issue was also related to how he would preserve
his privacy and sanity as president. From the time he occupied the Cherry Street
mansion, he found himself hounded by legislators, ofﬁce seekers, veterans, and
well-wishers. Before long, he felt himself under siege, unable to accomplish any
work. After making inquiries, he learned that presidents of the Confederation Congress had been “considered in no better light than as a maitre d’hotel . . . for their
table was considered as a public one.”10 As in everything else, Washington operated
in uncharted waters. “I was unable to attend to any business whatsoever,” he told
Stuart, “for gentlemen, consulting their own convenience rather than mine, were
calling from the time I rose from breakfast—often before—until I sat down to dinner.”11 With his days cluttered with ceremonial visits, Washington complained, “I
had no leisure to read or answer the dispatches which were pouring in from all
quarters.”12 As he tried to barricade himself from strangers, he wondered how he
could avoid the extremes of either rebufﬁng visitors in a “mimickry of royalty” or
becoming so secluded that he would shut out important communications. In short,
how to ﬁnd the “discriminating medium”?13
As he had always done, Washington solicited written opinions from several advisers, including Adams, Madison, Hamilton, Jay, and Robert R. Livingston, from
which he would distill his preferred policy. The hallmark of his administration
would be an openness to conﬂicting ideas. In wartime Washington had urged ofﬁcers to ﬁnd a happy medium between being too close to and too remote from
their men. Now, in remarkably similar language, he told Madison that he wanted
to avoid the “charge of superciliousness” if he held himself too aloof, as well as
the diminished presidential dignity that might arise from “too free an intercourse
and too much familiarity.”14 In many ways, Washington’s solution borrowed from
two worlds, adapting kingly traditions to a republican ethos. Presidential conduct
would be true to revolutionary principles but imbued with the forms of polite society that Washington had known his entire life.

Acting the Presidency r! 57 7

To strike a proper balance, Hamilton suggested that Washington hold weekly
levees—the term was borrowed from royal receptions—in which visitors could
chat with him. The president would enter, remain half an hour, make small talk
with guests, then disappear. A man of congenital formality, who kept an impenetrable zone of privacy around himself, Washington did not enjoy socializing with
strangers, so Hamilton’s scenario held an obvious appeal. The latter also suggested
dinners with small groups of legislators, especially senators who shared with the
president constitutional responsibilities, such as concluding foreign treaties and
approving major appointments. “This makes them, in a degree, his constitutional
counselors,” Hamilton noted.15 He also recommended that Washington refuse invitations to dine elsewhere, lest it impair presidential authority. Washington sympathized with any proposal that curtailed his social obligations. “I have no relish for
formal and ceremonious engagements,” he explained to James McHenry, “and only
give in to them when they cannot be avoided.”16
To handle the stampede of people wishing to see him, Washington decided to
hold his levees every Tuesday afternoon at three p.m. The newspapers let it be known
that, on other days, visits would “not be agreeable” to the president.17 Guests would
need introductions from suitable personages. Ordinarily Washington’s secretaries
would assist them from their carriages, but the president was capable of performing this courtesy when ladies and old comrades came calling. When the widows of
Nathanael Greene and Richard Montgomery appeared, for instance, Washington
went outside to help them down from their carriages.
The president was a punctual man, and, precisely at three, the folding doors
of his dining room were ﬂung open to guests; at three-ﬁfteen, they were shut to
further visitors. By the time guests arrived, Washington had struck a stately pose
by the ﬁreplace, encased in rigid protocol. The room was largely empty, most of
the furniture having been cleared to make space. Since Washington’s hearing was
failing, David Humphreys announced him and his visitors in a raised voice. At the
ﬁrst levee Humphreys announced Washington in such a loud, pompous voice that,
according to Madison, Washington shot him a reproachful look.
In a well-directed sequence, visitors came in and bowed to Washington, who
then bowed in return before they took their place in a standing circle. With an excellent memory for names, Washington seldom required a second introduction. In
a manner that reminded some of European kings, Washington never shook hands,
holding on to a sword or a hat to avoid direct contact with people. Slowly he made
the round of standing visitors, chatting brieﬂy with each, then resuming his original position by the ﬁreplace. Then the guests, moving like so many marionettes,
came up to him one by one, bowed, and went their way. The reception concluded
promptly at the stroke of four. Like a stage actor leaving nothing to chance, Wash-

57 8

r! The Pr esident

ington reproduced this ritual exactly each week. Small wonder that John Adams
said that if Washington “was not the greatest president, he was the best actor of the
presidency we have ever had.”18
One guest, describing the president’s magniﬁcent presence, recalled
the tall manly ﬁgure of Washington clad in black velvet; his hair in full dress, powdered and gathered behind in a large silk bag; yellow gloves on his hands; holding a
cocked hat with a cockade in it, and the edges adorned with a black feather about an
inch deep. He wore knee and shoe buckles; and a long sword, with a ﬁnely wrought
and polished steel hilt, which appeared at the left hip; the coat worn over the sword,
so that the hilt, and the part below the folds of the coat behind, were in view. The
scabbard was white polished leather.19

From the description, one can see how meticulously Washington fashioned the image that he broadcast to the world. Walter Buchanan, a New York physician, left a
revealing tale of a visit to the Cherry Street mansion during the president’s ﬁrst
Fourth of July in ofﬁce. When told that a small delegation from the Society of the
Cincinnati had appeared on his doorstep, Washington disappeared upstairs, donned
his black velvet suit and dress sword, then invited the veterans in for cakes and wine.
“On their departure,” noted Buchanan, “the general again retired and came down
to dinner in his usual costume of pepper-and-salt colored clothes.”20
The Tuesday-afternoon levees, wooden and boring, were excruciating affairs,
unrelieved by spontaneity. Washington’s heroic stature, an essential part of his
strength, was turned into a plaster cast that imprisoned him. During these scripted
functions, people found it impossible to engage in substantive discussions with
him, and perhaps that was the point. The taciturn Washington could see people
without worrying that they would solicit him for jobs or pump him for political
opinions. In searching for the happy medium between “much state” and “too great
familiarity,” Washington largely succeeded in ﬁnding it.21 Despite the benign look
in his eye, he managed to preserve a certain ofﬁcial distance. “He is polite with dignity,” Abigail Adams attested that spring, “affable without formality, distant without
haughtiness, grave without austerity, modest, wise, and good.”22
Since Washington’s Tuesday levees were limited to men, he and Martha decided
that she would entertain female visitors every Friday evening from seven to ten,
serving tea, coffee, ice cream, and lemonade. The plump little Martha, seated on a
sofa as guests entered, enjoyed sampling the desserts. She dressed well but avoided
jewelry as inappropriate for the new republic and was addressed by the democratic
nomenclature of “Mrs. Washington.” Never a sparkling talker, she was invariably a
capable one, falling easily into conversation with people and making even complete

Acting the Presidency r! 57 9

strangers feel welcome. Usually seated at her right elbow was Abigail Adams, who
noted how Washington chided anyone who violated protocol: “The president never
fails of seeing that [the seat] is relinquished for me, and having removed ladies several times, they have now learnt to rise and give it to me.”23
Dispensing with hat and sword, Washington made a minor concession to informality by wearing a brown coat on Friday evenings. More relaxed than at his
own levees, he circulated and chatted amiably with guests, displaying “a grace, dignity, and ease that leaves Royal George far behind him,” Abigail Adams reported.24
Washington delighted in the company of pretty women, who found his appeal
only heightened by the presidency. “The young ladies used to throng around him
and engage him in conversation,” said one visitor. “There were some of the wellremembered belles of that day, who imagined themselves to be favorites with him.
As these were the only opportunities which they had of conversing with him, they
were disposed to use them.”25 Another observer noted that Washington seemed less
austere at his wife’s teas, where he “talks more familiarly with those he knows and
sometimes with the ladies.”26 Washington never engaged in ﬂirtatious looks, but he
unquestionably paid special attention to women in attendance. “The company this
evening was thin, especially of ladies,” he complained in his diary after one Friday
soirée.27 Because the Washingtons rose early, Martha often terminated the gatherings before the allotted ten o’clock deadline, saying that she and the president had
to go to bed.
Even as the Washingtons sought an optimal balance between presidential splendor and republican austerity, an opposition press emerged that accused them of
trying to foist a monarchy on the country. For anyone who had seen the opulence
of Versailles or Windsor Castle, such accusations would have seemed wildly overblown. But every revolution breeds fears of counterrevolution, and worries about a
reversion to monarchism were perhaps predictable after a war against royal absolutism. Each morning as he read the gazettes, Washington was stung by commentary
on his receptions. Berating his dinners, the Daily Advertiser warned readers that
“in a few years we shall have all the paraphernalia yet wanting to give the superb
ﬁnish to the grandeur of our american court! The purity of republican principle
seems to be daily losing ground . . . We are on the eve of another revolution.”28 Even
Martha’s rather wholesome Friday-night gatherings were depicted darkly in some
quarters as “court-like levees” and “queenly drawing rooms.”29 When Washington’s
birthday was celebrated in February 1790 as a national holiday, purists disparaged it
as yet another showy monarchical exercise.
Among the leading critics of Washingtonian excess was William Maclay, the
caustic senator from Pennsylvania with a thin, bony face. The son of Scotch-Irish
Presbyterian immigrants, Maclay had a pronounced populist streak that predis-

580

r! The Pr esident

posed him to spot signs of incipient monarchy. In June 1789 he recorded his private
fears that fancy people around town had seduced the president: “Indeed, I entertain
not a doubt but many people are aiming, with all their force, to establish a splendid
court with all the pomp of majesty. Alas, poor Washington, if you are taken in this
snare, how will the gold become dim?”30
In copious diary entries, written with the satirical eye of a gadﬂy, Maclay left
vivid impressions of President Washington in social situations during his ﬁrst term.
An eager purveyor of gossip, Maclay was scarcely objective, taking a mordant, often
jaundiced, view of people. Sometimes his tattle was downright mean-spirited, as
when Robert Morris’s wife told him of a presidential dinner at which she bit into
a dessert only to ﬁnd it full of rancid cream. When informed of it, the president
“changed his plate immediately. But, she added with a titter, Mrs. Washington ate a
whole heap of it.”31 His observations could be laced with patent envy: “No Virginian
can talk on any subject but the perfections of Gen[era]l Washington.”32
Nonetheless, Maclay left some priceless glimpses into the social world of George
and Martha Washington, whom he satirized as boors and bumpkins, overshadowed
by more elegant couples they were trying to impress. He reported Washington’s
misery in social settings, picking up little ﬁdgety habits that showed him enduring
these occasions rather than enjoying them. He did not realize how much Washington hated dealing with so many strangers. In trying to impart dignity to presidential
protocol, Washington sometimes became frozen in this studied role, eliminating
the levity and conversational ﬂow that enlivened at least some dinners at Mount
Vernon or with his military family during the war.
Every other Thursday the Washingtons held an ofﬁcial dinner at four p.m. The
president, seeking geographic diversity, often tried to balance northern and southern legislators on his guest list. If guests were even ﬁve minutes late by the hall clock,
they found the president and his company already seated. Washington would then
explain curtly that the cook was governed by the clock and not by the company. In
his diary, Maclay described a dinner on August 27, 1789, in which George and Martha Washington sat in the middle of the table, facing each other, while Tobias Lear
and Robert Lewis sat on either end. John Adams, John Jay, and George Clinton were
among the assembled guests. Maclay described a table bursting with a rich assortment of dishes—roasted ﬁsh, boiled meat, bacon, and poultry for the main course,
followed by ice cream, jellies, pies, puddings, and melons for dessert. Washington
usually downed a pint of beer and two or three glasses of wine, and his demeanor
grew livelier once he had consumed them.
Maclay painted a deadly portrait of Washington at one dinner as a veteran bore,
devoid of conversation except platitudes, and very jittery: “The president kept a fork
in his hand when the cloth was taken away—I thought for the purpose of picking

Acting the Presidency r! 5 81

nuts. He ate no nuts, but played with the fork, striking on the edge of the table with
it.”33 Washington could neither relax nor converse spontaneously, leading Maclay to
conclude that “it was the most solemn dinner ever I ate at . . . The ladies sat a good
while and the bottles passed about, but there was a dead silence almost.”34
On March 4, 1790, Maclay wrote an account of another stiﬂing dinner and again
portrayed a consistently somber Washington: “The president seemed to bear in his
countenance a settled aspect of melancholy. No cheering ray of convivial sunshine
broke thro[ugh] the cloudy gloom of settled seriousness. At every interval of eating
or drinking, he played on the table with a fork or knife, like a drumstick.”35 Sitting
at Washington’s right side, John Adams fared no better at the hands of Maclay, who
derided the vice president as “mantling his visage with the most unmeaning simper
that ever dimpled the face of folly.”36 Senator Samuel Johnston of North Carolina,
who attended the same dinner, was entranced by it: “I have just left the president’s,
where I had the pleasure of dining with almost every member of the Senate. We had
some excellent champagne and after it, I had the honor of drinking coffee with his
lady, a most amiable woman. If I live much longer, I believe that I shall at last be
reconciled to the company of old women for her sake.”37
Two months later, ﬁnding Washington in better spirits, Maclay provided a possible clue to the awkward silences of earlier gatherings: “Went to dine with the
president, agreeable to invitation. He seemed more in good humor than ever I saw
him, tho[ugh] he was so deaf that I believe he heard little of the conversation.”38
That Washington’s hearing had deteriorated—not surprising after eight years of
roaring cannon—may explain the gruesome conversational gaps that Maclay so
freely mocked. Deafness can be an isolating experience, especially for a president.
People would naturally have waited for him to respond to statements before proceeding with the conversation; to conceal his deafness, a self-conscious Washington
may well have feigned hearing what they said and sat there in silence. It was yet
another sign of the aging process that had transformed the once dashing, athletic
Washington.
On January 20, 1791, Maclay, a lame duck senator, attended a last dinner with
the president. Though Maclay had developed into a sharp political opponent, the
president still treated him with instinctive decorum, not the royal hauteur of his
imaginings. Maclay took a ﬁnal measure of the man, and his description shows how
dramatically time had altered Washington: “Let me take a review of him as he really
is. In stature about six feet, with an unexceptionable make, but lax appearance. His
frame would seem to want ﬁlling up. His motions rather slow than lively, tho[ugh]
he showed no signs of having suffered either by gout or rheumatism. His complexion pale, nay, almost cadaverous. His voice hollow and indistinct owing, as I believe,
to artiﬁcial teeth before in his upper jaw.”39

5 82

r! The Pr esident

Washington had clearly undergone a startling change. Described as “lusty” by
Robert Hunter in 1785, he was now slow and shufﬂing. Instead of being ruddy with
buoyant health, he was gaunt and “cadaverous.” Where earlier observers had commented on his well-padded muscles, Washington’s frame now wanted “ﬁlling up.”
And the voice was again described as thin and whispery. An unaccustomed stiffness
had overtaken his movements, he knew. When one Virginian criticized his clumsy
bows at receptions, he said they were “the best I was master of ” and remarked plaintively to David Stuart, “Would it not have been better to have thrown the veil of
charity over them, ascribing their stiffness to the effects of age . . . than to pride and
dignity of ofﬁce, which, God knows, has no charms for me?”40
According to Jefferson, Washington told him that “nobody disliked more the
ceremonies of his ofﬁce and he had not the least taste or gratiﬁcation in the execution of its function; that he was happy at home alone.”41 Suffering from the
stultifying etiquette imposed by his ofﬁce, he later railed against those who had prescribed such formality. He was especially upset that, having tried to strike a balance
between pomp and austerity, he had been roundly criticized and misunderstood.
As Jefferson wrote after a 1793 conversation, Washington “expressed the extreme
wretchedness of his existence while in ofﬁce and went lengthily into the late attacks
on him for levees etc., and explained to me how he had been led into them by the
persons he consulted at New York and that, if he could but know what the sense of
the public was, he would most cheerfully conform to it.”42
Washington found it hard to live frugally, and the chief steward he hired to
supervise the kitchen made economy that much more difﬁcult. Sam Fraunces had
formerly owned the tavern at which Washington had enacted his lachrymose farewell to his ofﬁcers at the war’s end.43 In the mid-1780s Fraunces had run into serious
debt and even appealed to Washington for ﬁnancial aid. By the time Washington
hired him to manage his household, Fraunces had opened another tavern on Cortlandt Street.
A shrewd operator with a ﬂamboyant manner, Fraunces seemed ubiquitous at
Washington’s dinner parties, “resplendently dressed in wig and small-clothes,” according to one historian.44 A skillful cook, he knew how to dress a table, supervise
waiters, prepare desserts, and bring forth a sumptuous meal. Somewhat to Washington’s chagrin, Fraunces preened himself on the “bountiful and elegant” dinners he
presented.45 Tobias Lear stared agog at the heaps of lobster, oysters, and other dishes,
saying Fraunces “tossed up such a number of ﬁne dishes that we are distracted in
our choice when we sit down to table and obliged to hold a long consultation upon
the subject, before we can determine what to attack.”46 In time Washington began
to reprimand his steward for unconscionable extravagance. However fond he was
of lavish living, he minded his pennies and personally reviewed household bills.

Acting the Presidency r! 5 83

Unfortunately, the feisty Fraunces wasn’t one to be deterred, not even by a sitting
president. “Well he may discharge me,” Frances declared. “He may kill me if he will,
but while he is President of the United States and I have the honor to be his steward,
his establishment shall be supplied with the very best of everything that the whole
country can afford.”47 Washington’s attempts to rein in Fraunces led to a running
battle that raged until Fraunces quit in February 1790. To show there were no hard
feelings, Washington bestowed on him a last bonus for his tavern.
Even before Washington occupied 3 Cherry Street, he had grumbled about the
cost of renovating it. The handsome three-story building had a high stoop, balusters along the roof, and seven ﬁreplaces inside. It stood on a boisterous thoroughfare crawling with trafﬁc. The day before Washington arrived, Sally Robinson, niece
of owner Samuel Osgood, inspected the premises and found “every room furnished
in the most elegant manner,” she told a friend. “The best of furniture in every room
and the greatest quantity of plate and china I ever saw. The whole of the ﬁrst and
second stories [are] papered and the ﬂoors covered with the richest kinds of Turkey and Wilton carpets . . . There is scarcely anything talked about now but General Washington and the Palace.”48 For all the fuss made over the house, it did not
work well for the Washingtons. It had to house thirty people and was sufﬁciently
cramped that three secretaries—Humphreys, Nelson, and Lewis—slept in a single
room on the third ﬂoor. Humphreys, then writing a play, reportedly strode the hall
after dark in his nightshirt, loudly declaiming verse from the epilogue. The house
was located at an inconvenient spot near the East River, distant from the tony seats
of government and society situated on Broadway.
The impresario of entertaining, Washington took personal charge of selecting
the ornaments that deﬁned the grandeur of his dining room. Far from shunting
off decorating on his wife or subordinates, he trusted his detailed knowledge of the
decorative arts. To create a tea service, he melted down some old silver and had the
ﬁnished products engraved with his grifﬁn crest. When he asked Gouverneur Morris, then resident in Europe, to purchase wine coolers for dinners, he showed a characteristic concern with orderly appearance. To keep the wine cool, the bottles would
be placed in silver wire baskets partly immersed in ice. Washington issued precise
instructions for their manufacture so that “whether full or empty, the bottles will
always stand upright and never be at variance with each other.” 49 With an educated
eye for furnishings that might lend brilliance to state dinners, he also had Morris
ship him decorative mirrors for the tabletop, so that silverware and candlesticks
would emit shimmering reﬂections. As if part of his job were reﬁning American
taste, Washington oversaw the purchase of many objets d’art, including porcelain
ﬁgures, silver spoons, and a china set embellished with the eagle of the Society of
the Cincinnati.

5 84

r! The Pr esident

No small part of the splendor of Washington’s establishment was his household
contingent of twenty servants, seven of them slaves. All the servants, white and
black, were buffed to a high gloss. A few slaves were bedecked in the same costumes
as the white servants: a white livery with red trim on the cuffs and collars. Cocked
hats, gloves, and well-polished shoes completed the glossy outﬁt. To posterity, it
seems shocking that Washington imported slaves into the presidential mansion,
but Jefferson would bring a dozen slaves from Monticello to the White House; the
tradition of having slaves in the presidential household unfortunately lasted until
the death in 1850 of Zachary Taylor, the last of the slaveholding presidents.
Washington extended the grandeur of his presidency to morning horseback
rides. He kept a dozen horses in New York and made a daily a tour of his stables.
Aware of how impressive he looked atop a white mount, he once instructed a friend
to buy him a horse, specifying that he “would prefer a perfect white.”50 In the early
days of his presidency, he rode a pair of spotless white parade horses, Prescott and
Jackson. Perhaps he had a subliminal memory of Lord Botetourt riding to the palace in colonial Williamsburg behind a coach with shining white horses. So taken
was Washington with his unblemished chargers that he had grooms rub them with
white paste at night, bundle them in cloths, then bed them down on fresh straw. In
the morning the hardened white paste gleamed, its paleness accentuated by black
polish applied to the horses’ hooves. For command performances, the animals’
mouths were rinsed and their teeth scrubbed. In another fancy touch, Washington
set his saddles in leopard skins edged with gold braiding.
On a ﬁne spring day New York residents might glimpse the president and ﬁrst
lady out for a ride in their ornate, varnished coach, drawn by six well-matched bay
horses. With four postilions attired in leather breeches and glazed leather hats, the
coach made an exquisite impression as it rolled through the crowded streets. “When
he travels,” a British diplomat later observed, “it is in a very kingly style.”51 Sometimes the Washingtons stared out the window and at other times drew the Venetian
blinds or black leather curtains for privacy. In 1790 Washington adorned the coach
with allegorical scenes of the four seasons, executed on the outside panels, afﬁxing
his personal crest to four small quarter panels.
Occasionally in the early afternoon, Washington descended from Mount Olympus and ambled through the city streets, where he greeted citizens in a more egalitarian manner. On one such promenade, he encountered in a shop six-year-old
Washington Irving, attended by a Scottish maid. “Please your honor,” said the maid,
pushing the little boy forward, “here’s a bairn [child] was named after you.”52 Washington patted the head of the little boy fated to be his future biographer. That Washington walked the streets and made himself accessible to ordinary people carried
important political overtones. As David Stuart reported from Virginia, “It has given

Acting the Presidency r! 5 85

me much pleasure to hear every part of your conduct spoke[n] of with high approbation, and particularly your dispensing with ceremony occasionally and walking
the streets, while [John] Adams is never seen but in his carriage and six.”53
Another place Washington encountered New Yorkers was at his presidential
pew at St. Paul’s Chapel, where he often appeared on Sunday mornings. He devoted
Sunday afternoons to writing lengthy communications to George Augustine Washington about Mount Vernon matters, ranging from crop rotation to mule breeding.
On Sunday evenings he read aloud sermons or passages from Scriptures and continued to say grace at meals. An integral component of his religiosity was his charitable largesse to the indigent and others in need. When destitute veterans ﬂocked to
his door, Washington frequently dispensed alms to them. He gave scores of charitable contributions, preferring anonymity, though he sometimes made exceptions
on public holidays to set an example for the citizenry. After he designated Thursday,
November 26, 1789, as the ﬁrst Thanksgiving Day, for example, he contributed beer
and food to those jailed for debt.
Washington lost no time becoming a regular visitor to the John Street Theater.
A simple red wooden building, large and bare as a barn, it had its own presidential
box, emblazoned with the arms of the United States. When the theater manager told
Washington that he usually started plays at seven p.m. but would gladly delay them
until his arrival, Washington set him straight, saying he would always be punctual
and that the audience would never have to wait. Washington invariably appeared
at seven on the dot. The instant he did, the orchestra struck up “The President’s
March,” later known as “Hail, Columbia,” and the audience erupted with robust
cheers. Since Washington’s presence was typically announced in advance, the performances usually drew veterans who doffed their caps and waved up to him.
At the time theatergoing was still considered a bit racy. When Washington invited
John and Sarah Jay to join him in his box, he said he would understand if they declined
from “any reluctance to visiting the theater.”54 The Jays accepted with pleasure. That
George Washington was a habitué of risqué plays indicates he was hardly a prude. The
ﬁrst play he saw, on May 11, 1789, was his all-time satirical favorite, William Sheridan’s
The School for Scandal. His box was large enough to accommodate several guests, and
he invited along Senator Maclay. Even the curmudgeonly Maclay was thrilled by the
experience and regretted not having brought his children: “Long might one of them
[have] live[d] to boast of their having been seated in the same box with the ﬁrst character in the world.”55 That box was often packed with government dignitaries and leading personalities. On the evening of November 24, 1789, the Washingtons were joined
by Abigail Adams, Alexander and Elizabeth Hamilton, Philip Schuyler, and Catharine
“Caty” Greene, the general’s widow. Such evenings constituted a perfect form of entertainment for the man who acted the presidency better than anybody else.

ch ap ter fort y-eight

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

T he Cares of Ofﬁce

For a m a n of suc h prodigious s t r e ngt h, Washington had been pestered by recurrent medical problems, and his presidency proved no exception. He
had weathered more than eight years of war partly because as a planter he was accustomed to a rugged outdoor life. As president, he found it hard to adapt to a sedentary job in an urban setting, which may have weakened his health. In mid-June
1789 he ran a fever as a fast-growing tumor appeared on his left thigh. The area grew
so tender and inﬂamed that it became excruciating for him to sit. Four years earlier
Washington had watched his Mount Vernon overseer, John Alton, “reduced to a
mere skeleton” from a fatal abscess on his thigh, and he must have been alarmed
when he developed a comparable symptom.1
The president summoned Dr. Samuel Bard, a prominent New York physician,
who diagnosed the condition as the cutaneous form of anthrax. Petriﬁed that
Washington would expire, Bard refused to leave his bedside for several days. The
situation must have shocked everyone around Washington: no sooner had the federal government been formed than its president lay in mortal peril. In all likelihood, Washington had a carbuncle or soft tissue infection. As might be expected,
he was the picture of stoic courage. “I am not afraid to die and therefore can bear
the worst,” he told Bard evenly. “Whether tonight, or twenty years hence, makes no
difference. I know that I am in the hands of a good Providence.”2 The public knew
something was wrong, if only because Tobias Lear had servants cordon off Cherry
Street, stopping trafﬁc. The household staff also sprinkled straw outside the mansion to deaden passing footsteps. Still, the public had no notion of the gravity of
the president’s illness.

The Cares of Ofﬁce r! 5 87

On June 17, when Dr. Bard operated on Washington’s thigh, he brought along
his father, Dr. John Bard, to supervise the proceedings. The elder Bard, a veteran
surgeon, felt too old to undertake the procedure himself. Surgery was then a hellish ordeal, as the patient gritted his teeth and endured excruciating pain. While the
younger Dr. Bard split open the abscess, his father exhorted him to persevere: “Cut
away—deeper—deeper still! Don’t be afraid. You see how well he bears it!”3 Tobias
Lear claimed that the tumor was “very large and the incision on opening it deep.”4
In all likelihood, the younger Bard excised the mass of infected tissue and scraped
away any pus or dead tissue, all of which would have been enormously painful
for Washington, who remained unfailingly courteous. As Samuel Bard assured his
daughter, “It will give you pleasure to be told that nothing can exceed the kindness
and attention I receive from him.”5
For weeks afterward, as Washington lay bedridden, some friends thought he
might never recover his legendary strength. “I have now the pleasure to inform
you that my health is restored,” Washington apprised James McHenry on July 3,
“but a feebleness still hangs upon me, and I am yet much incommoded by the
incision which was made in a very large and painful tumor on the protuberance of
my thigh.”6 In extreme discomfort, unable to walk or sit, he reclined on his right
side for six weeks and couldn’t even draft a letter. When Abigail Adams visited,
she found him, with becoming presidential dignity, stretched out on the sofa and
praised this “singular example of modesty and difﬁdence.”7
The interior of Washington’s coach was reconﬁgured so he could lie down,
although he had to be lifted and deposited gently inside by four servants. For an
hour each day, he made salutary tours of the town with Martha. On July 4, 1789,
Baron von Steuben and Alexander Hamilton—now, respectively, president and
vice president of the New York Society of the Cincinnati—trooped to 3 Cherry
Street to pay their respects before Hamilton delivered a eulogy to Nathanael
Greene at St. Paul’s Chapel. In a moving homage to Greene’s memory, Washington, despite his discomfort, dressed up in full regimentals to greet his visitors at
the door—an unusual instance of Washington donning a military costume during
his presidency. To the limited extent possible, he kept up appearances and tried to
convey an aura of calm.
By early September, Washington reassured Dr. James Craik that the inﬂammation had dwindled to “the size of a barleycorn” and that he expected it would
shortly disappear altogether.8 Martha Washington was hugely relieved, although a
visitor noticed that when she discussed her husband’s health, “a tear of apprehension for futurity was in her eye.”9 Except with intimates, Washington was discreet
about discussing his malady. Dr. Craik and other friends urged him to launch a
brisk regimen of outdoor exercise to offset his staid indoor life. Washington con-

588

r! The Pr esident

ceded that his job might have contributed to his ailment and might even kill him,
but he was resigned to the sacriﬁce. Echoing Shakespeare, he said, “The want of
regular exercise, with the cares of ofﬁce, will, I have no doubt, hasten my departure
for that country from whence no traveler returns.”10 Nevertheless, his ofﬁcial duties,
he maintained, would remain “the primary consideration in every transaction of
my life, be the consequences what they may.”11
Washington took to heart his friends’ advice to do more exercise, which was one
reason he made a trip to New England that fall. Upon his return, he and Martha,
along with Nelly and Washy, began extended coach rides around Manhattan, often
cruising a fourteen-mile loop that took them to the scenic northern reaches of the
island. Even in the winter, Washington supplemented these excursions with strolls
around the Battery. Sometimes he mixed in a smattering of politics, as happened
in January when he went horseback riding with Senator Samuel Johnston of North
Carolina and William Cushing, an associate justice of the Supreme Court—a perfect equestrian union of all three branches of government.

Washi ngton’s i l l n e ss coincided with the ﬁnal stages of Mary Ball Washington’s protracted struggle with breast cancer. Showing belated maternal warmth,
Mary had her daughter, Betty, write to the new president, apropos of his convalescence, that she “wishes to hear from you; she will not believe you are well till she has
it from under your own hand.”12 Mary had always been a hardy woman and, even as
she aged, retained “full enjoyment of her mental faculties,” according to her famous
son.13 Clinging to her independence, she still made daily visits to her farm in an
open carriage, until illness rendered that impossible. When he visited his redoubtable mother in early March 1789, Washington knew he might never see her again and
that it would be “the last act of personal duty I may . . . ever have it in my power to
pay my mother.”14 It is signiﬁcant that he employed the word duty, since affection
had never formed part of the picture. Whatever she may have said privately, Mary
Washington took no more public pride in his being president than she had in his
command of the Continental Army. But it’s hard to imagine that on his last visit to
his mother, Washington was unmoved by the sight of a dying parent, cruelly disﬁgured by disease, or that he felt no residual gratitude toward her. Whatever her glaring
ﬂaws, Mary Washington had worked hard to raise him in the absence of a father.
By mid-August Mary Ball Washington had drifted into a coma; she ﬁnally passed
away on August 25, 1789, at eighty-one. On September 1 Washington was hosting a
dinner party, with Steuben keeping the table in uproarious merriment, when the
laughter was abruptly silenced by a message announcing her death. Despite his reservations about his mother, Washington was much too decorous to dispense with

The Cares of Ofﬁce r! 5 8 9

the proper forms of mourning. Always correct in his conduct toward his mother,
he ordered black cockades and ribbons for his household staff, while government
members wore black crape on their arms; black ribbons and necklaces became de
rigueur for ladies. Ofﬁcial New York went into mourning for a woman whom they
had never seen and who had shown scant interest in the new government. The
formal levees were canceled for three weeks. Soon the capital resumed its normal
social rhythm, but Washington wore badges of mourning for at least ﬁve months.
In what seems like shocking neglect, however, he failed to erect a tombstone on his
mother’s grave. “The grave of Washington’s mother is marked by no visible object,
not even a mound of earth, nor is the precise spot of its locality known,” noted an
astonished Jared Sparks during an 1827 visit to Fredericksburg. “. . . For a long time
a single cedar tree was the only guide to the place; near this tree tradition has ﬁxed
the grave of Washington’s mother, but there is no stone to point out the place.”15
No special memorial arose at Mary Washington’s graveside until three decades after
George Washington’s death.
Washington spoke no eulogies, told no fond anecdotes of the hard, sometimes
shrewish mother who had served as the lifelong whetstone of his anger; he took refuge instead in empty generalities. Whether responding to an unspoken accusation
from Betty Lewis that he had been derelict in his ﬁlial duties, or feeling guilty that
his sister had borne the burden of caring for their inﬁrm mother, Washington sent
her a detailed accounting of his ﬁnancial generosity to their mother:
She has had a great deal of money from me at times, as can be made [to] appear by
my books and the accounts of Mr. L[und] Washington during my absence. And over
and above this [she] has not only had all that was ever made from the plantation, but
got her provisions and everything else she thought proper from thence. In short, to
the best of my recollection, I have never in my life received a copper from the estate
and have paid many hundred pounds (ﬁrst and last) to her in cash. However, I want
no retribution. I conceived it to be a duty whenever she asked for money and I had
it to furnish her.16

In her will, Mary Washington named George as executor, a responsibility he
couldn’t have relished as president. She left him a bed, curtains, a blue and white
quilt, and a dressing mirror—items he identiﬁed as “mementoes of parental affection,” but he never took possession of them and left them for his sister’s use.17
Entitled to a one-ﬁfth portion of his mother’s estate, he received two slaves, which
meant that Mary Ball Washington had owned as many as ten slaves, certifying that
she had scarcely been destitute. The auction of Mary’s belongings that October also
suggested that, for all her complaints, the elderly widow had accumulated consider-

59 0

r! The Pr esident

able property. Among the auction items cited in a newspaper advertisement were
“stocks of horses, cattle, sheep and hogs, plantation utensils of every kind, carts,
hay, and fodder.”18 In fact, Mary had amassed such substantial landholdings that
George alone inherited four hundred acres of valuable pine land; he gave it to Robert Lewis, Betty’s son. All of this property had been owned by a woman who saw ﬁt
to petition the Virginia legislature for a private pension during the war because of
her son’s alleged neglect.

Th e m e nac i ng grow t h on h is t h igh and his mother’s death slowed
Washington down only slightly as he forged the ofﬁce of the presidency, which
immediately involved him in a thicket of constitutional issues. Could the Supreme
Court give advisory opinions to the legislative and executive branches? Would the
executive branch supervise American foreign policy, subject to congressional approval, or vice versa? Numberless questions about the basic nature of the federal
government would be decided during Washington’s presidency, often in the throes
of heated controversy. Although Washington had not been an architect of the system of checks and balances or separation of powers, he gave sharp deﬁnition to
them by helping to draw the boundaries of the three branches of government in a
series of critical test cases.
A central component of the Whig orthodoxy that had spurred the American
Revolution was the supremacy of the legislative branch, viewed as a curb to the
executive. By design, the framers of the Constitution devoted Article I to a lengthy
description of legislative powers, giving Congress the ability to help shape the other
two branches. Left deliberately vague was the ofﬁce of the presidency, allowing its
ﬁrst occupant to ﬁll in the blanks. The earnest Washington tried to adhere to the
letter of the Constitution and hoped to enjoy harmonious relations with Congress.
But he soon realized that the Constitution was less a precise blueprint for action
than a set of general guidelines whose many ambiguities required practical clariﬁcation. If bemused by some congressional practices, he tried not to trespass on
legislative prerogatives. For instance, he privately opposed the Senate’s closed-door
policy, but he kept a discreet silence in public. For its part, Congress groped to
deﬁne its relationship to the president. In June 1789 some congressmen wanted
Washington to have to gain senatorial approval to ﬁre as well as hire executive
ofﬁcers—the Constitution was silent on the subject; the House duly approved that
crippling encroachment on executive authority. When the Senate vote ended in
a tie, Vice President Adams cast the deciding vote to defeat the measure, thereby
permitting the president to exert true leadership over his cabinet and, for better or
worse, preventing the emergence of a parliamentary democracy.

The Cares of Ofﬁce r! 591

The ﬁrst formal clash between Washington and Congress arose on August 5,
1789, when the Senate rejected Washington’s nomination of Benjamin Fishbourn
as collector of the Port of Savannah. Though still ailing, Washington made his way
to Federal Hall and mounted to the second-ﬂoor Senate chamber, decorated on its
ceiling with thirteen stars and suns. Washington’s unexpected entrance stunned the
legislators. Undoubtedly feeling a bit befuddled, Vice President Adams rose from his
canopied chair of crimson velvet and offered it to Washington, who then proceeded
to upbraid the twenty-two members of the Senate, demanding to know why they
had spurned his appointee. “The president showed [a] great want of temper . . .
when one of his nominations was rejected,” said Senator Ralph Izard of South Carolina.19 It was an unusual public display of emotion by Washington.
After a long, awkward silence, Senator James Gunn of Georgia, whose state included Savannah, rose and from “personal respect for the personal character of
Gen[era]l Washington” explained his opposition to Fishbourn.20 At the same time
he wanted it understood that the Senate felt no obligation to explain its reasoning
to the president. The episode marked the start of “senatorial courtesy,” whereby
senators reserved the right to block nominations in their home states. Despite
Gunn’s respectful treatment, Washington went off in a great huff, and Tobias Lear
said that as soon as he returned from the Senate, he “expressed his very great regret
for having gone there.”21
This skirmish turned out to be triﬂing compared to the conﬂict over Indian
policy some weeks later. The episode began in mid-June, when Henry Knox, secretary of war, wrote a well-meaning letter to Washington, ﬂeshing out a farsighted
approach to Indian affairs. Noting the bloody battles between Indians and American settlers on the frontier, Knox declared that the Indians, as rightful owners of
the land, should not be deprived of it by violence or coercion. Rather, he advocated
paying them for their land and concentrating them in a system of federally protected enclaves. Knox wanted to initiate this policy by negotiating a treaty with
Alexander McGillivray, chief of the Creek Nation, whose hunting grounds extended
over parts of modern-day Georgia, Florida, Alabama, and Mississippi. The corrupt
Georgia legislature was ready to make a mockery of any enlightened policy toward
the Indians by selling to speculators millions of acres claimed by the Creeks and
other southern tribes.
In early August Knox informed Washington that he had worked out a treaty
with the Creeks, including several secret articles. Among other things, Knox wanted
the executive branch to dominate Indian affairs as a way of bolstering presidential
authority. As part of the treaty process, Washington planned to send a three-man
commission to broker peace between Georgia and the Creeks, but when Knox drew
up instructions for this parley, Washington thought he needed to consult the Senate

59 2

r! The Pr esident

about them. This time, instead of pouncing unexpectedly, he gave ample warning
of his visit. He interpreted the “advice and consent” requirement of the Constitution to include such direct meetings with the Senate, but the ensuing contretemps
changed the course of American history. When Washington arrived on August 22,
he again occupied Adams’s seat, with Knox seated to his left. They delivered a copy
of the treaty papers to Adams, who tried to read them aloud but was drowned out
by trafﬁc below. “I could tell it was something about Indians,” grumbled William
Maclay, “but was not master of one sentence of it.”22 When the windows were shut,
Adams read aloud the seven articles of the treaty, to be followed by a yea or nay vote
on each. After he read the ﬁrst one, Robert Morris stood and said he hadn’t been
able to hear anything above the racket, forcing Adams to reread the whole treaty. He
then recited the ﬁrst article again, followed by an uncomfortable silence.
Some in the Senate believed that Washington wanted them merely to rubberstamp treaties and appointments instead of exercising independent judgment.
When Maclay requested a reading of the supporting treaties between the southern
Indians and three southern states, Washington ﬁxed him with an icy glare. “I cast an
eye at the president of the United States,” Maclay wrote. “I saw he wore an aspect of
stern displeasure.”23 Robert Morris moved that the papers brought by Washington
be referred to a committee. When Maclay defended the propriety of this motion,
Washington’s expression grew even more forbidding, and he hotly contested the
idea of committing anything to a committee. “ ‘This defeats every purpose of my
coming here’ were the ﬁrst words that he said,” Maclay wrote in his diary. “He then
went on that he had brought his Secretary at War with him to give every necessary
information.”24 Washington refused to yield on the committee proposal, although
he agreed to postpone the matter. In Maclay’s version of events, Washington, having shown ﬂashes of temper, withdrew with “a discontented air” and a sense of
“sullen dignity.”25
A couple of days later Washington returned to the Senate, which approved the
three commissioners to negotiate with the Creeks. It proved his farewell appearance in the Senate chamber. In a decision pregnant with lasting consequences,
Washington decided that he would henceforth communicate with that body on
paper rather than in person and trim “advice and consent” to the word consent.
For instance, when Washington appointed David Humphreys as a diplomat to the
Court of Portugal in February 1791, Maclay noted that the choice was sent to the
Senate as a fait accompli: “The president sends ﬁrst and asks for our advice and
consent after.”26
This decision may have done more to deﬁne the presidency and the conduct of
American foreign policy than an entire bookshelf of Supreme Court decisions on
the separation of powers. Where the Constitution had been sketchy about presi-

The Cares of Ofﬁce r! 593

dential powers in foreign affairs, Washington made the chief executive the principal
actor, enabling him to initiate treaties and nominate appointees without ﬁrst huddling with the Senate. It was an instinctive reaction from a man who had grown
accustomed to command during the war. If a touch imperious, it was a far more
realistic approach to foreign policy than constant collaboration and horse-trading
between the president and Senate. For one thing, the presidency was continuously
in session, unlike Congress, and it was much easier for one man to take decisive action, especially in an emergency. Washington’s decision also widened the distance
between president and Senate, enabling the latter to function as an independent,
critical voice in foreign policy rather than as a subordinate advisory panel.
An enduring mystery of Washington’s presidency is why he relegated John Adams to a minor role. A Washington biographer is struck by the paucity of letters exchanged between the two men; Adams was clearly excluded from the inner circle of
advisers. Partly this was a structural phenomenon. Under the Constitution, the vice
president served as president of the Senate, thus overlapping two branches of governments. Nowadays we tend to think of the vice president as the president’s agent
in the legislature, but Adams saw the vice president as a creature of that branch. He
stated bluntly, “The ofﬁce I hold is totally detached from the executive authority
and conﬁned to the legislative.”27 On another occasion he insisted that the Constitution had created “two great ofﬁces,” with one ofﬁcer “placed at the head of the
executive, the other at the head of the legislature.”28 As Washington tried to protect
the presidency from senatorial intrusion, Adams was bound to suffer a demotion
in the process.
Washington also had a long memory for wartime critics and knew that in the
Congress Adams had sometimes been a vocal opponent of his performance. The
Virginian demanded loyalty from those around him, and Adams had forfeited that
trust during the war, never to regain it completely. An envious man, Adams was secretly exasperated by Washington’s unprecedented success. Always brooding about
history’s judgment, he dreaded that Washington and Franklin would dwarf him
in the textbooks. As he memorably told Dr. Benjamin Rush, the crux of the story
would be “that Dr. Franklin’s electrical rod smote the earth and out sprung General
Washington. That Franklin electriﬁed him with his rod and thenceforward these
two conducted all the policy, negotiations, legislatures, and war.”29 Adams went so
far as to say privately that Washington’s waiving of his salary as commander in chief
and retiring after the war had been egotistical acts: “In wiser and more virtuous
times, he would not have [done] that, for that is an ambition.”30 There was also a
profound temperamental gulf between Washington and Adams. Both were stubborn, gritty men with courageous devotion to American liberty, but Washington
was far more restrained and self-effacing. It also couldn’t have helped relations be-

594

r! The Pr esident

tween the two men that Adams was an age peer and political rival to Washington,
who preferred drawing on the talents of younger men, such as Madison and Hamilton. Of his time as vice president, John Adams would render a glum assessment:
“My country has, in its wisdom, contrived for me the most insigniﬁcant ofﬁce that
ever the invention of a man contrived or his imagination conceived.”31

ch ap ter fort y-nine

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Rays of Genius

Th roughou t 17 8 9 George Washington was oppressed by the need to make
appointments to the new government. With nearly a thousand posts to ﬁll—the
federal government was quite unlike the states in its preponderance of appointed
posts—the president was inundated with several times as many applications.
Among the tidal wave of letters ﬂooding in were those from wounded veterans and
women who had sacriﬁced husbands or sons in the war. William Maclay noted the
unending crush of aspiring ofﬁceholders who besieged the hapless president: “Men
of pride, ambition, talents all press forward to exhibit their abilities on the theater
of the general government.”1 At its inception, the executive branch was extraordinarily small—Washington initially oversaw a larger staff of slaves and servants at
Mount Vernon than he did as president of the United States—but the new government quickly overshadowed his estate in size.
In dealing with ofﬁce seekers, Washington became hypersensitive to pressure,
which usually backﬁred. As Jefferson once observed of him, “To overdo a thing
with him is to undo it.”2 Washington believed that forming an honest, efﬁcient
civil service was a critical test for the young republic. A model president in making
appointments, he never cut deals or exploited patronage and ruled out “blood or
friendship” in picking people.3 The criteria he valued most were merit, seniority,
loyalty to the Constitution, and wartime service, as well as an equitable distribution of jobs among the states. By sticking to a policy of “utmost impartiality” with
appointees, he sought to strengthen the government’s legitimacy.4 “If injudicious
or unpopular measures should be taken . . . with regard to appointments,” he told
nephew Bushrod, “the government itself would be in the utmost danger of being

59 6

r! The Pr esident

utterly subverted.”5 He turned down Bushrod’s own request for a job as U.S. attorney in Virginia, preferring to hire older and more seasoned lawyers.
Washington fretted over the design of the new government, which was still
formless. From the Confederation Congress, he had inherited four departments—
Foreign Affairs, War, Post Ofﬁce, and the Board of Treasury—that would report to
Congress until new departments were created; meanwhile they kept Washington
up to date with reports. Only lightly did the Constitution sketch in the contours
of the executive branch, giving Washington freedom to maneuver. In the summer
of 1789 Congress created in rapid succession the Department of Foreign Affairs
(soon renamed the State Department), the War Department, and then the Treasury
Department in September. Assigned to lower rungs were the ofﬁces of the attorney
general, who would advise the president on constitutional matters, and the postmaster general, who would preside over post ofﬁces and postal roads. That these
departments belonged to the executive, not to the legislative branch, as under the
Articles of Confederation, signaled a major shift in the American polity.
While the Constitution talked about executive departments, it made no reference to a cabinet, stipulating only that the president could request “the opinion,
in writing” of department heads.6 Once again constitutional brevity presented an
opportunity for Washington. At ﬁrst he drew on the model of his wartime councils,
requesting opinions from department heads, but this differed from the true cohesion of a cabinet that met to thrash out policy. As Alexander Hamilton, the ﬁrst
treasury secretary, later told a British minister, “We have no cabinet and the heads
of departments meet on very particular occasions only.”7 Thomas Jefferson, the ﬁrst
secretary of state, would dub Washington “the hub of the wheel,” with the department heads arrayed like brilliant spokes around him.8
In choosing those heads, Washington surrounded himself with a small but decidedly stellar group. With his own renown secure, he had no fear that subordinates
would upstage him and never wanted subservient courtiers whom he could overshadow. Aware of his defective education, he felt secure in having the best minds
at his disposal. He excelled as a leader precisely because he was able to choose and
orchestrate bright, strong personalities. As Gouverneur Morris observed, Washington knew “how best to use the rays” given off by the sparkling geniuses at his command.9 As the ﬁrst president, Washington assembled a group of luminaries without
equal in American history; his ﬁrst cabinet more than made up in intellectual ﬁrepower what it lacked in numbers.
The one holdover from a previous executive department was Henry Knox, who
was conﬁrmed as secretary of war in early September. Washington retained his old
wartime affection for Knox and used the word love to describe his feelings for his
rotund friend. A few years earlier Washington had told Knox that he should “be

Rays of Genius r! 59 7

assured that, to correspond with those I love is among my highest gratiﬁcations,
and I persuade myself you will not doubt my sincerity when I assure you, I place
you among the foremost of this class.”10 Expert at fending off political pressure,
Washington established a rule that nobody could discuss political appointments
with him unless he ﬁrst brought up the topic. Frustrated by this rule, Roger Sherman of Connecticut asked Hamilton if he would champion a certain appointment with the president. “No, I dare not do it,” Hamilton replied. “I know General
Washington too well. But I can tell you where your only hope lies. Go to General
Knox. They say Washington talks to him as a man does with his wife.”11 With his
hearty appetite and ebullient personality, Henry Knox stood forth as an immense
social presence in the new administration. Maclay aptly referred to him as “a Bacchanalian ﬁgure.”12
On most political issues, Washington saw eye to eye with Knox, who had labored hard for the new Constitution. But Knox was destined to be the least capable
of the three department heads. He worked diligently, gave Washington unquestioning loyalty, and promptly responded to requests, but he was not an original policy
thinker and was relatively passive compared to the assertive Hamilton and the quietly tenacious Jefferson. He also worked in an area where Washington himself was
highly competent. The War Department further suffered from the popular bugaboo about a standing army, which meant that Knox started out with 840 federal
troops and never supervised a force larger than 5,000 men.
For the all-important Treasury post, Washington turned to the war’s preeminent
ﬁnancier: Robert Morris. En route to the inauguration, Washington had broached
the subject with him in Philadelphia. Pleading business reasons, Morris declined
the invitation and recommended Hamilton in his stead. James Madison also touted
Hamilton as the person “best qualiﬁed for that species of business,” although he
later came to rue his sponsorship.13
Even before the inauguration, Washington had received anonymous warnings
about Hamilton, previewing things to come. A poison-pen artist who styled himself “H.Z.” warned the president-elect to “beware of the artful designs and machinations of your late aide-de-camp, Alexander Hamilton, who, like Judas Iscariot,
would, for the gratiﬁcation of his boundless ambition, betray his lord and master.”14
(Even Madison said later that Hamilton “spoke disparagingly of Washington’s talents” after the war.15) Hamilton was also trailed by accurate rumors that at the Constitutional Convention he had advocated a president who would serve for life on
good behavior, planting the notion that he was a closet monarchist. Nevertheless
Washington was convinced of Hamilton’s talents and integrity and selected him for
the Treasury post, for which he was easily conﬁrmed in early September. Whatever
their wartime differences—and Hamilton was much too headstrong to admire any-

59 8

r! The Pr esident

one uncritically—the two men had worked together closely and productively during the ﬁrst two phases of the American experiment, the Revolutionary War and the
Constitutional Convention. Now they would collaborate on the critical third phase:
the formation of the ﬁrst federal government.
Although Washington seemed unaware of it, Hamilton had been training for
the Treasury post throughout the war, boning up on subjects as diverse as foreign
exchange and central banks. Like Washington, Knox, and other Continental Army
ofﬁcers, Hamilton had perceived an urgent need for an active central government,
and he grasped the reins of power with a sure-handed gusto that set the tenor for
the administration. He headed a Treasury Department that, with thirty-nine employees, instantly surpassed the rest of the government in size. Of particular importance, he presided over an army of customs inspectors whose import duties served
as the government’s main revenue source.
In Hamilton, Washington found a cabinet secretary of tireless virtuosity who
would function as his unofﬁcial prime minister. Taunted as an aspiring upstart by
his enemies, Hamilton did not hide his intellectual lights under a bushel. At a time
when politicians were supposed to be self-effacing, Hamilton was openly ambitious and, in many respects, the antithesis of his mentor. Where Washington had
no compulsion to shine in company, Hamilton, who was charming, urbane, and
debonair, wanted to be the most brilliant ﬁgure in every group, and he usually was.
A proliﬁc writer of letters, essays, and pamphlets, he was a systematic thinker who
knew how to translate principles into workable policies. Hamilton saw the advantage of setting a brisk tempo to the administration and pushing through quickly
an ambitious legislative package. Setting a pattern for future administrations, he
wanted to capitalize on the short-lived goodwill granted to a new president. However sophisticated Washington was as a businessman, he found public ﬁnance an
esoteric subject and had to rely on Hamilton’s expertise, whereas he could question
Knox on war matters or Jefferson on foreign affairs from personal experience.
Nothing drew the contrast between Hamilton and Jefferson so graphically as
the speed with which the former accepted the Treasury post versus the latter’s reluctance to become secretary of state. At ﬁrst Washington had favored John Jay for the
State Department, but when Jay preferred the chief justice spot, Washington opted
for Jefferson. Although he had seen little of Jefferson in recent years, he cherished
fond memories of him from the House of Burgesses, where he had “early imbibed
the highest opinion” of him.16 Since Jefferson was crossing the ocean that September, returning temporarily from his ministerial post in Paris, Washington could not
consult him before picking him. Only two months later, when Jefferson arrived in
Norfolk, Virginia, did he learn of Washington’s decision. As a sympathetic spectator of the budding French Revolution, Jefferson would have preferred to return to

Rays of Genius r! 59 9

France and therefore reacted with extreme ambivalence to the cabinet offer. Still,
he had the good grace to tell Washington that, if he took the job, “my chief comfort
will be to work under your eye, my only shelter the authority of your name and the
wisdom of measures to be dictated by you.”17 In late January 1790 Jefferson, still
vacillating, had to be cajoled by both Washington and Madison into accepting the
post. Washington pushed him gently. “I know of no person who, in my judgment,
could better execute the duties of it than yourself,” he reassured him.18 Not until
February did Jefferson formally accept the post, and he arrived in New York only in
late March. In pointed contrast, Hamilton had bustled into ofﬁce with irrepressible
energy and immediately launched a far-reaching series of programs.
One wonders whether Jefferson’s hesitation reﬂected an equivocal attitude toward the new federal government itself, since he had been, at best, a lukewarm supporter of the Constitution. At ﬁrst he had preferred tinkering with the Articles of
Confederation and favored only “three or four new articles to be added to the good,
old, and venerable fabric.”19 He was especially chagrined by the absence of a bill
of rights and the “perpetual re-eligibility” of the president, which he feared would
make the job “an ofﬁce for life ﬁrst and then hereditary.”20 Jefferson also retained a
congenital distrust of politics, which he personally found a form of sweet torture,
the source of both exquisite pain and deep satisfaction. He especially hated bureaucracy, whereas Hamilton had no such qualms.
On Sunday, March 21, 1790, Washington spent the morning in prayer at St. Paul’s
Chapel before setting eyes on his new secretary of state at one p.m. The next day the
two were locked in policy discussions for more than an hour. Jefferson was tall and
lean, with reddish hair, hazel eyes, and a fair complexion. Jefferson, who was slightly
taller than Washington but long-limbed and loose-jointed, and his new boss would
have stared each other straight in the eye, both towering over Hamilton. A reserved
man whose tight lips bespoke a secretive personality, Jefferson had calm eyes that
seemed to comprehend everything. Shrinking from open confrontations, he often
resorted to indirect, sometimes devious methods of dealing with disagreements. He
could show a courtly charm in conversation and was especially seductive in small
groups of like-minded listeners, where he became a captivating talker and natural
leader. At the same time his mild manner belied his ﬁerce convictions and relentless
desire to have his views prevail. The idealism of his writings and his almost utopian
faith in the people did not quite prepare his foes for his taste for political intrigue.
Washington relied upon younger men during his presidency, much as he had during the war. Jefferson was a decade and Hamilton more than two decades younger.
Whatever their later differences, Jefferson started out by venerating Washington; he
had once identiﬁed Washington, along with Benjamin Franklin and David Rittenhouse, as one of three geniuses America had spawned. “In war we have produced a

600

r! The Pr esident

Washington, whose memory will be adored while liberty shall have votaries, whose
name shall triumph over time.”21 He adorned Monticello with a painting of Washington and a plaster bust of him by Houdon. Jefferson always revered Washington’s
prudence, integrity, patriotism, and determination. “He was, indeed, in every sense
of the words, a wise, a good, and a great man,” he stated in later years.22 Jefferson
claimed that his dealings with President Washington were always amicable and productive. “In the four years of my continuance in the ofﬁce of secretary of state,” he
was to say, “our intercourse was daily, conﬁdential, and cordial.”23
Nevertheless, as the years progressed, Jefferson’s judgment of Washington grew
far more critical. He viewed the president as a tough, unbending man: “George
Washington is a hard master, very severe, a hard husband, a hard father, a hard
governor.”24 Nor did he see Washington as especially deep or learned: “His time was
employed in action chieﬂy, reading little, and that only in agriculture and English
history.”25 He also found Washington leery of other people: “He was naturally distrustful of men and inclined to gloomy apprehensions.”26
If profound foreign policy differences emerged between Washington and Jefferson, some of this can be ascribed to contrasting outlooks. At least on paper, Jefferson was quixotic and idealistic, even if he could be ruthless in practice. Washington
was a hardheaded realist who took the world as it came. Jefferson would be far
more hostile than Washington toward the British and far more sympathetic to the
unfolding French Revolution. While Washington grew increasingly apprehensive
about the violent events in Paris, Jefferson viewed them with philosophical serenity,
lecturing Lafayette that one couldn’t travel “from despotism to liberty in a featherbed.”27 Unlike Washington, Jefferson regarded the French Revolution as the proud
and inevitable sequel to the American Revolution.
From the outset Jefferson was dismayed by the political atmosphere in New
York. In his cultivated taste for ﬁne wines, rare books, and costly furnishings, he was
very much a Virginia aristocrat. One British diplomat noted his regal ways: “When
he travels, it is in a very kingly style . . . I am informed that his secretaries are not
admitted into his carriage but stand with their horses’ bridles in their hands, till he
is seated, and then mount and ride before his carriage.”28 Nonetheless Jefferson was
extremely vigilant about the possible advent of a pseudo-aristocracy in America.
His years spent witnessing the extravagant court of Versailles had only conﬁrmed
his detestation of monarchy. As he made the rounds of New York dinner parties,
he was appalled to hear people voice their preference for “kingly over republican
government.”29 Only Washington, he thought, could check this fatal drift toward
royal government, although he ﬁnally harbored doubts as to whether he would
do so. It also upset Jefferson that Hamilton seemed to be poaching on his turf, a
problem partly of Washington’s own making. With departmental lines still blurry,

Rays of Genius r! 6 01

Washington invited all department heads to submit opinions on matters concerning only one of them, producing sharp collisions and intramural rivalries. On the
other hand, this method gave the president a full spectrum of opinion, saving his
administration from monolithic uniformity.
The ﬁrst attorney general, Edmund Randolph, thirty-six, was a handsome
young man descended from one of Virginia’s blue-ribbon families and well known
to Washington. The son of a Tory father who had ﬂed to England, he had graduated from William and Mary and studied law. He had even handled legal matters
for Washington, who had chosen him partly because of his “habits of intimacy with
him.”30 As Virginia governor, Randolph had led the state delegation to the Constitutional Convention but balked at signing the resulting document, only to switch
positions during the Virginia Ratifying Convention, where he proved “a very able
and elegant speaker,” according to Bushrod Washington.31 As a cabinet member,
Randolph chafed at his subordinate position. The attorney general oversaw no department, causing him to gripe about his “mongrel” status.32 So little was expected
of the ﬁrst attorney general that he was encouraged to take outside clients to supplement his modest $1,500 salary. Jefferson faulted Randolph as a weak, wavering
man, calling him “the poorest chameleon I ever saw, having no color of his own and
reﬂecting that nearest him.”33
The Constitution was especially vague about the judiciary, which left a good deal
to congressional discretion. The document did not specify the number of Supreme
Court justices, so the Judiciary Act of 1789 set them at six; it also established thirteen district courts and three circuit courts. To balance federal and state power, each
circuit court blended two Supreme Court justices, riding the circuit, with a district
court judge selected from the particular state in which the trial was held. For Supreme Court justices, the need to “ride circuit” twice yearly was the most onerous
part of their job, a lonesome task that could consume weeks or months. In the absence of federal courthouses, circuit courts met in government buildings or roadside taverns. Having to travel backcountry roads and sleep in squalid inns further
detracted from judicial prestige. Such was the misery of riding circuit that several of
Washington’s judicial selections declined for that reason, prompting a high turnover
in the Supreme Court’s early years. In early April 1790 Washington inquired whether
the justices had any problems to report, and in September they returned a lengthy
list of objections. They were especially upset with having to ride circuit, noting that
it created an untenable legal situation, since they might have to rule as Supreme
Court justices on appeals of cases they had tried in those very courts.
In no area did Washington exert more painstaking effort than in selecting judges,
for he regarded the judicial branch as “that department which must be considered
as the keystone of our political fabric,” as he told Jay in October 1789.34 Once the

6 02

r! The Pr esident

Judiciary Act passed in late September 1789, he nominated Jay as chief justice along
with ﬁve associate judges from ﬁve different states, establishing regional diversity as
an important criterion in such appointments. In stark contrast to the acrimonious
hearings in later American history, the six justices breezed through the Senate conﬁrmation process in forty-eight hours, their selection sparking little debate. Also
without apparent protest, Washington named a large batch of district judges, U.S.
attorneys, and marshals. In all, George Washington would appoint a record eleven
justices to the Supreme Court.
As secretary of foreign affairs under the Articles of Confederation, John Jay kept
warm the seat at the State Department until Jefferson arrived in New York. Washington felt palpable affection for Jay, conﬁding to him late in the war, “I entertain
the friendly sentiments toward you, which I have ever experienced since our ﬁrst
acquaintance.”35 In sending along his commission as chief justice, Washington appended an enthusiastic note: “It is with singular pleasure that I address you as Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States.”36 Prematurely balding, John Jay
was a lean man with a pale, ascetic face, an aquiline nose, a melancholy air, and a
wary look in his piercing, intelligent eyes. He had not handled a legal case in more
than a decade and his skills had grown rusty, but Washington wanted a well-known
national ﬁgure whose reputation transcended legal expertise. While Washington
widened the distance between the presidency and the Senate, he at ﬁrst narrowed
it between the presidency and the Supreme Court, soliciting Jay’s viewpoint on an
eclectic array of issues ranging from the national debt, Indian affairs, and the census to counterfeit coins, postal roads, and inspection of beef exports.
On February 1, 1790, the Supreme Court held its inaugural meeting in the Merchants Exchange on Broad Street, with four justices present; its ﬁrst session lasted
only ten days. When Associate Justice William Cushing arrived in a British-style judicial wig, he was jeered in the streets and had to return to his residence for a more
pedestrian wig. In the beginning, the Court lacked the majesty it would later attain
and often seemed like an institution in search of a mission. Because of the newness
of the federal judiciary, appeals had yet to percolate up from lower courts, resulting
in little work at ﬁrst. The Court’s early procedures now seem quaintly antiquated.
Instead of issuing written opinions, justices handed them down verbally from the
bench without an ofﬁcial reporter to record decisions.
Wa sh i ngt on ’s ac c om pl ish m e n t s as president were no less groundbreaking than his deeds in the Continental Army. It is a grave error to think of George
Washington as a noble ﬁgurehead presiding over a group of prima donnas who
performed the real work of government. As a former commander in chief, he was
accustomed to a chain of command and delegating important duties, but he was

Rays of Genius r! 6 03

also accustomed to having the ﬁnal say. As president, he enjoyed unparalleled power
without being autocratic. He set out less to implement a revolutionary agenda than
to construct a sturdy, well-run government, and in the process he performed many
revolutionary acts.
Starting from scratch, Washington introduced procedures that made his government a model of smooth efﬁciency. Based on the ﬂeeting mention in the Constitution that he could request written opinions from department heads, he created an
impressive ﬂow of paperwork. Jefferson noted that he would forward them letters
he received that fell within their bailiwick, then asked to peruse their replies. They
would gather up daily bundles of papers for his approval. Although this brieﬂy
delayed replies, Jefferson explained, “it produced [for] us in return the beneﬁt of
his sanction for every act we did.”37 This paper ﬂow also meant that Washington
was “always in accurate possession of all facts and proceedings in every part of the
Union and . . . formed a central point for the different branches; preserved a unity
of object and action among them,” and enabled him to assume personal responsibility for all decisions.38 Besides giving him a spacious view of the executive branch,
this practice also kept his cabinet members on a tight leash. Jefferson noted that,
however open-minded Washington was in asking for opinions, he took umbrage
when offered unsolicited advice—the technique of someone who wanted to set the
agenda and remain in control.
Among his department heads, Washington encouraged the free, creative interplay of ideas, setting a cordial tone of collegiality. He prized efﬁciency and close
attention to detail and insisted that everybody make duplicate or even triplicate
copies of letters, demanding clarity in everything. Once he upbraided an American
diplomat in Europe by saying, “I will complain not only of your not writing, but of
your writing so illegibly that I am half a day deciphering one page and then guess
at much of it.”39 He wanted to be able to sit at leisure and compare conﬂicting arguments. Through his tolerant attitude, he created a protective canopy under which
subordinates could argue freely, but once decisions were made, he wanted the administration to speak with one voice. Understanding the intellectual isolation of
the presidency, he made sure that people didn’t simply ﬂatter him. He told Henry
Lee, “A frank communication of the truth . . . respecting the public mind would be
ever received as the highest testimony of respect and attachment.”40 Washington
grew as a leader because he engaged in searching self-criticism. “I can bear to hear
of imputed or real errors,” he once wrote. “The man who wishes to stand well in the
opinion of others must do this, because he is thereby enabled to correct his faults
or remove prejudices which are imbibed against him.”41 The one thing Washington
could not abide was when people published criticisms of him without ﬁrst giving
him a chance to respond privately.

6 04

r! The Pr esident

As in other walks of life, Washington exhibited to a clockwork order in his daily
routine and employed his time economically. There is poetic justice in the fact that
when the capital shifted to Philadelphia, he often stopped at his watchmaker on his
daily constitutionals. One British diplomat observed of Washington that “his time
is regularly divided into certain portions and the business allotted to any one portion strictly adhered to.”42 When he settled upon weekly levees, Tobias Lear noted
that they would allow “a sufﬁcient time for dispatching the business of the ofﬁce”
and give “dignity to the president by not obliging him to expose himself every day
to impertinent and curious intruders.”43
Many people observed that President Washington spoke slowly and took time
to make decisions, letting plans ripen before enacting them. Politics gave him more
time to deliberate than did warfare, and he made fewer mistakes as president than
as a general on the battleﬁeld. To Catharine Macaulay Graham, he summed up his
executive style: “Much was to be done by prudence, much by conciliation, much
by ﬁrmness.”44 Hamilton concurred that the president “consulted much, pondered
much; resolved slowly, resolved surely.”45 By delaying decisions, he made sure that
his better judgment prevailed over his temper. At the same time, once decisions
were made, they “were seldom, if ever, to be shaken,” wrote John Marshall.46 Jefferson agreed, saying that Washington’s mind was “slow in operation, being little aided
by invention or imagination, but sure in conclusion.”47 Once a decision was made,
Washington seldom retreated unless fresh evidence radically altered his view. “Perhaps the strongest feature in his character was prudence,” Jefferson wrote, “never
acting until every circumstance, every consideration, was maturely weighed; refraining if he saw a doubt but, when once decided, going through with his purpose
whatever obstacles opposed.”48 Jefferson did not rank Washington as a ﬁrst-rate
intellect on the order of a Newton, Bacon, or Locke, but he admitted that “no judgment was ever sounder.”49 Well aware of his own executive style, Washington once
instructed a cabinet member “to deliberate maturely, but to execute promptly and
vigorously.”50
Washington was a perceptive man who, behind his polite facade, was unmatched at taking the measure of people. People did not always realize how observant he was. “His eyes retire inward . . . and have nothing of ﬁre or animation
or openness in their expression,” said Edward Thornton, a young British diplomat,
who added that Washington “possesses the two great requisites of a statesman, the
faculty of concealing his own sentiments, and of discovering those of other men.”51
Washington once advised his adopted grandson that “where there is no occasion
for expressing an opinion, it is best to be silent, for there is nothing more certain
than that it is at all times more easy to make enemies than friends.”52 Washington’s
seemingly veiled eyes were penetrating, and Gouverneur Morris credited him with

Rays of Genius r! 6 0 5

a cool, unblinking perspicacity: “He beheld not only the affairs that were passing
around, but those also in which he was personally engaged, with the coolness of an
unconcerned spectator.”53
A taciturn man, Washington never issued opinions promiscuously. A disciplined politician, he never had to retract things uttered in a thoughtless moment.
“Never be agitated by more than a decent warmth and offer your sentiments with
modest difﬁdence,” he told his nephew Bushrod, noting that “opinions thus given
are listened to with more attention than when delivered in a dictatorial style.”54 He
worried about committing an error more than missing a brilliant stroke. Washington also hated boasting. Bishop William White of Pennsylvania observed, “It has
occasionally occurred to me when in his company, that if a stranger to his person
were present, he would never have known from anything said by the president that
he was conscious of having distinguished himself in the eyes of the world.”55
For all his many admirable traits, Washington was never a warm, cozy, or folksy
ﬁgure. As a man of moderation, he delivered praise sparingly and feared that excess familiarity with subordinates might weaken their performance. He kept people
slightly off balance, guessing and vying for his favor. He managed relations with
colleagues through subtle hints and gestures, and they learned to decipher his subliminal messages with accuracy. He had powerful ways of communicating his likes
and dislikes, through subtle gradations of tone. With strangers or acquaintances,
he addressed letters to “Sir.” As he warmed up, he wrote to them as “Dear Sir,” and
when he grew very close, they were favored with “My Dear Sir.” He was no less
artful in closing letters. If he went from signing “Humble Obedient Servant” to
“Affectionate Obedient Servant,” the recipient had made a major leap forward in
his emotions. Washington expressed displeasure with people less often with open
rebukes than with the silent treatment, a sudden chill in the air, and a reversion to
curt, businesslike communications.
Another politician would have been intoxicated by the idolatry Washington received. But through it all he maintained a striking personal stability and never let
hero worship go to his head. The country was probably lucky that he was somewhat
wearied by all the attention. There was cunning in Washington’s nature but no low
scheming. He never reneged on promises and was seldom duplicitous or underhanded. He respected the public, did not provoke people needlessly, and vowed
at the time of his inauguration “that no man shou[ld] ever charge me justly with
deception,” as he told James McHenry.56 When asked for advice on how to navigate
“the dark and thorny path of politics,” he said he could “only repeat what I have
formerly told my countrymen in a very serious manner ‘that honesty will be found,
on every experiment, the best policy.’”57 The charge of elitism against Washington
can easily be overstated, for he immensely respected public opinion. When Madi-

606

r! The Pr esident

son later compared Washington and Adams as presidents, he contrasted their sensitivity to the public mood. Washington, he said, was always “scrutinizing into the
public opinion and ready to follow where he could not lead it,” while Adams was
“insulting it by the most adverse sentiments and pursuits.”58
Perhaps no president has tried so persistently to set an example of good conduct. He grew agitated whenever people gave him gifts, lest it be thought he was
accepting bribes. When David Humphreys sent him elegant shoe buckles, he protested: “Presents . . . to me are of all things the most painful; but when I am so
well satisﬁed of the motives which dictated yours, my scruples are removed.”59 It
would have been easy for him to turn into a demagogue. Instead he tried hard to
ﬂoat high above all partisan considerations. In September 1792 he grew incensed at
reports that he had supported the candidacy of John Francis Mercer for a Virginia
congressional seat. Washington sent Mercer an indignant letter, pointing out that
his interference in congressional elections would be “highly improper, as the people
ought to be entirely at liberty to choose whom they pleased to represent them in
Congress.”60 In such incidents Washington showed that he was forever on guard
against the abuse of his presidential powers.
When Washington was sworn into ofﬁce, North Carolina and Rhode Island had
not yet embraced the Constitution and stood apart from the new Union. A major
stumbling block was the absence of a bill of rights attached to the Constitution.
At the time of the Constitutional Convention, Washington deemed a bill of rights
superﬂuous on the grounds that American citizens would retain all rights that they
did not expressly renounce in the document. During the ratifying conventions,
he worried that opponents would seek to subvert the new political system by “attempting premature amendments.”61 When David Humphreys drafted Washington’s original inaugural speech, Washington still worried that agitation for a bill of
rights was a political ruse being exploited by antifederalist forces. One surviving
fragment of the undelivered speech says: “I will barely suggest whether it would not
be the part of prudent men to observe [the Constitution] fully in movement before
they undertook to make such alterations as might prevent a fair experiment of its
effects?”62
A critical convert to adopting a bill of rights was James Madison, who had
initially opposed the idea. While running for Congress in a strongly antifederalist district in Virginia, he had been forced to emphasize his commitment to such
amendments. As he informed Washington in January 1789, “It has been very industriously inculcated that I am dogmatically attached to the constitution in every
clause, syllable, and letter, and therefore not a single amendment will be promoted
by my vote, either from conviction or a spirit of accommodation.”63 In retrospect,
it seems ironic that Madison should have been accused of irremediable hostility

Rays of Genius r! 6 0 7

toward the amendments that came to be so gloriously associated with his name.
He became convinced that a bill of rights was necessary to shore up support for the
Constitution among hostile and wavering elements alike.
In defending the Constitution, Washington had often invoked its amendment
powers to appease critics. After the inauguration, Madison showed him a dozen
amendments he had drafted; after being whittled down to ten, they were to achieve
renown as the Bill of Rights. Encountering heavy resistance in the new Congress,
Madison asked Washington for a show of support for the amendments and elicited
from him an all-important letter in late May 1789. While some of the proposed
amendments, Washington wrote, “are importantly necessary,” others were needed
“to quiet the fears of some respectable characters and well meaning men. Upon the
whole, therefore . . . they have my wishes for a favorable reception in both houses.”64
This letter helped to break the logjam in Congress. “Without Washington’s help,”
writes Stuart Leibiger, “Madison’s crusade for what has become a constitutional
cornerstone would have been hopeless.”65 Washington’s involvement was all the
more notable in that he normally hesitated to meddle in the legislative process.
By September 1789, under Madison’s guidance, Congress had approved the
amendments and ordered Washington to send copies to the eleven state governors,
as well as to the chief executives of North Carolina and Rhode Island. Even though
the amendments were not approved by the states and formally adopted until December 15, 1791, North Carolina entered the Union in November 1789 and Rhode
Island in May 1790, completing the reuniﬁcation of the original thirteen states. In
mid-October 1789 Washington wrote to Gouverneur Morris in a well-merited spirit
of triumph, “It may not, however, be unpleasing to you to hear . . . that the national
government is organized, and, as far as my information goes, to the satisfaction of
all parties—that opposition to it is either no more, or hides its head.”66

chapter fifty

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

T he Traveling Presidency

I n t h e e a r l i e st days of h is a dm i n ist r at ion, Washington decided to
visit every state in the Union and permit people to view him ﬁrsthand. His impulse
was profoundly republican: he wanted to monitor public opinion. As a southern
president, he thought it politic to tour the northern states ﬁrst. After consulting
with Hamilton, Knox, and Jay, he mapped out a monthlong tour of New England,
once Congress had recessed in late September 1789. He wanted to educate himself
about the “principal character and internal circumstances” of each section of the
country and meet “well-informed persons, who might give him useful informations and advices on political subjects.”1 He was especially eager to discover whether
citizens had embraced their new experiment in republican government. This all
formed part of his concerted effort to break out of the airtight bubble that can seal
any ﬂedgling president in a suffocating vacuum.
Washington had other cogent reasons for making the trip. To refute stories
about his supposedly regal style, he decided to travel with only Tobias Lear, David
Humphreys, and William Jackson, in addition to six servants. Since he was traveling to Massachusetts, Washington thought it proper to invite along Vice President
Adams, who committed a major faux pas by snubbing his invitation. The trip
would also enable Washington, after his recent prolonged illness, to indulge in fresh
air, exercise, and relaxation. To rebuild his shattered health, he now rode for two
hours each morning and strolled for an hour in the late afternoon, but he still led a
conﬁned existence in New York and must have eagerly anticipated the freedom of
the open road.
When he set out in mid-October, the business of government did not grind to

The Traveling Presidency r! 6 0 9

a halt. Congress had instructed Alexander Hamilton to draw up a report on public
debt and to devise an all-encompassing plan to fund it. It was a huge and punishing task—Congress wanted it in hand when it reconvened in early January—but
Hamilton, a dynamo who thrived on hard work, gloried in his ability to produce
outstanding results on short notice. Prior to leaving New York, Washington also
signed a proclamation for the ﬁrst Thanksgiving on November 26, declaring that
“Almighty God” should be thanked for the abundant blessings bestowed on the
American people, including victory in the war against England, creation of the
Constitution, establishment of the new government, and the “tranquillity, union,
and plenty” that the country now enjoyed.2
To execute a sweeping tour of the northern states, Washington knew, he would
encounter many problems that had bothered him before. He had no ﬂair for impromptu public speaking or small talk and could not divert audiences with a casual
joke or anecdote. “In public, when called on for a sudden opinion, he was unready,
short, and embarrassed,” Jefferson recalled, noting that Washington “had neither
copiousness of ideas, nor ﬂuency of words.”3 He also had to worry about a more humiliating possibility: his dentures popping out unexpectedly. Opening his mouth
relaxed the pressure on the curved metal springs connecting the upper and lower
dentures, which might cause them to slip out. That Washington risked such embarrassment in order to make direct contact with the people shows his self-sacriﬁcing
nature. Perhaps afraid he would be held captive to the hospitality of various families and eager to salvage some privacy, he laid down a rule that he would not stay in
private residences during the trip.
By now Washington well understood the machinery of fame. Usually he rode
through the countryside in an open carriage, attended by servants in livery and
jockey caps. Behind him a baggage wagon rumbled along, and one of his slaves,
either Paris or Giles, supervised his white charger in the rear. As they entered a town,
Washington would dismount from his carriage, mount the white steed, then enter
with magniﬁcent solemnity. He clung to the hope that he might avoid fanfare and
enter cities unobtrusively, and at his ﬁrst stop in New Haven, Connecticut, he deliberately bypassed the welcoming committee. “By taking the lower road,” he admitted
in his diary, “we missed a committee of the assembly who had been appointed to
wait upon and escort me into town.”4 Typically, as word leaked out about his imminent arrival, a volunteer cavalry corps rushed to greet him before he could outwit
them. Doomed to his own celebrity, he tried to submit with the best possible grace.
Aside from scouting places for future canals, roads, and other internal improvements, Washington kept a weather eye out for innovations in manufacturing and
agriculture. The country already stood in the early throes of the Industrial Revolution, and unlike Jefferson, Washington did not recoil from the mills that had begun

610

r! The Pr esident

to dot the landscape. He stopped by the Hartford Woolen Manufactory and examined its textile business. While he did not ﬁnd their broadcloths to be ﬁrst-rate, he
ordered a suit for himself and material for breeches for his servants. Engaging in a
bit of amateur sociology, he observed the greater income equality of the northern
states. Soon after crossing into Massachusetts, he wrote, “There is a great equality
in the people of this state. Few or no opulent men and no poor—great similitude
in their buildings . . . The farms . . . are small, not averaging more than 100 acres.”5
His comment provides yet another example of Washington’s growing appreciation
of the northern states and his shedding of a purely Virginia identity.
Boston loomed as the ﬁrst major city on the itinerary; plans for a full-dress military parade as he entered the city only stoked Washington’s anxiety. A committee of
Boston dignitaries traveled to meet him in Spencer, west of Worcester, and, just as he
feared, they presented their celebratory plans. Not for the last time during the trip,
Washington fell on his sword: “Finding this ceremony was not to be avoided, though
I had made every effort to do it, I named the hour of ten to pass the militia of the
above county at Cambridge and the hour of 12 for my entrance into Boston.”6
Boston had never properly thanked Washington for its liberation from the British, and it now intended to seize the opportunity. Knowing this would be a tribute
to his wartime prowess, Washington departed from his usual practice and decked
himself out in his Continental Army uniform, topped by rich gold epaulettes. If
he had been resistant at ﬁrst to the adulation of the Boston populace, he entered
wholly into the spirit of the occasion. The morning of his arrival was cold and
overcast, and his cavalcade was halted at Cambridge by a dispute as to whether state
or local authorities would receive him. The president grew irritated with the maddening delay. “Is there no other avenue into the town?” he demanded.7 The stern
reproof had an immediate effect: he would be greeted by municipal ofﬁcials.
As he entered Boston, church bells chimed, and a French ﬂeet in the harbor
erupted with bursts of artillery ﬁre. In a symbolic gesture, cannon roared from
Dorchester Heights, recalling the triumph Washington had engineered there during the Boston siege. People crammed the streets, bent on seeing him as he trotted
by on his white steed. “He did not bow to the spectators as he passed,” said one
observer, “but sat on his horse with a calm, digniﬁed air.”8 At the State House he
passed beneath an enormous arch emblazoned with the words “To the man who
unites all hearts,” surmounted by a laurel wreath with the inscription “Boston relieved March 17th. 1776.”9 When Washington appeared on a balcony of the building
and set eyes on the vast multitude below, there arose a tremendous roar. George
Washington was always more emotional than people realized, and by the time he
emerged from the State House and heard a choir crooning an ode to him, he could
no longer contain himself, giving way to tears. One startled eyewitness described

The Traveling Presidency r! 61 1

how “every muscle of his face appeared agitated, and he was frequently observed to
pass . . . his handkerchief across his eyes.”10
Washington’s visit to Boston embroiled him in a delicate diplomatic impasse
with Governor John Hancock, who invited him to stay in his richly decorated
Beacon Hill home. Hancock was something of a strutting peacock, wearing fancy
clothes and riding about in a radiant coach. In replying to this invitation, Washington explained his decision to stay in prearranged lodgings, although he accepted
an invitation to dine informally with Hancock. Always scrupulously attentive to
form, Washington assumed that Hancock would obey protocol and call on him
at his lodgings before he went to this dinner. Pleading gout, Hancock failed to do
so. To Hancock’s emissaries, Washington expressed his displeasure. He knew that
Hancock was trying to establish that he outranked the president in Massachusetts.
Behind the dispute over etiquette lay an unspoken struggle between state and federal power. “I informed them in explicit terms that I should not see the Gov[erno]
r unless it was at my own lodgings,” Washington wrote in his diary.11 Perhaps he
remembered Hancock’s peevish reaction when Washington had been appointed
commander in chief instead of him. Hancock quickly got the message. Writing
grandly about himself in the third person, he told Washington that “the Governor
will do himself the honor to pay his respects in half an hour. This would have been
done much sooner had his health in any degree permitted.”12 To ﬂaunt his martyrdom, Hancock wrapped himself up in red ﬂannel bandages and had his servants
carry him into Washington’s lodging.
By this point Washington had come down with a cold and an eye inﬂammation.
Even before he left New York, he had received reports of an “epidemical cold” gripping the New England states.13 On the day he entered Boston, so many local citizens
were wheezing with heavy coughs and chest colds that the illness was dubbed “the
President’s Cough” or “Washington’s inﬂuenza.”14 Now it seemed that Washington
himself had succumbed. Nonetheless he toured the Harvard College library and
museum and went aboard the ﬂagship of the French ﬂeet, receiving maritime honors accorded only to kings. Bemused, he noted, “The ofﬁcers took off their shoes
and the crew all appeared with their legs bared.”15 Still the heartthrob of American
females, Washington agreed to a request from the ladies at an elegant dinner to
sit for a portrait that would grace Faneuil Hall. The smitten ladies, all aﬂutter, explained that “his benign countenance made such an impression on their hearts as
they wish to recognize in his portrait in future.”16 From this portrait, copies were
made that would hang in many Boston households.
On his trip Washington followed his ecumenical practice of praying in churches
of various denominations, including Episcopal, Presbyterian, and Congregational.
In Boston he attended a concert in King’s Chapel (Stone Chapel), where a young

61 2

r! The Pr esident

Danish artist named Christian Güllager, seated in a pew behind the pulpit, drew a
rapid, unauthorized sketch of him. A week later, in Portsmouth, New Hampshire,
Washington granted Güllager a two-and-a-half-hour sitting that produced a remarkably fresh and candid portrait of Washington that was perhaps inﬂuenced by
the painter’s ﬁrst glimpse of him in Boston. Leaning back in his chair, Washington
seems to turn and suddenly catch the artist’s eye. His face is broad and open, his
torso massive and powerful in a dark coat, and his aura commanding.
On October 28, as he toured the Boston Sailcloth Manufactory, Washington’s attention was distracted from the wonders of American manufactures by the wonders
of American women. One observer spied Washington’s frisson of delight, saying that
he “made himself merry on this occasion, telling the overseer he believed he collected
the prettiest girls in Boston.”17 When feted that evening, Washington was again encircled by adoring women and recorded happily in his diary that “there were upwards
of 100 ladies. Their appearance was elegant and many of them were very handsome.”18
So began a habit of counting the fashionable women as he basked in their attention. “He is much more open and free in his behavior . . . in the company of ladies . . .
than when solely with men,” someone later noticed.19 Washington can be forgiven his
wandering eye, for others noted the way pretty women gathered around him. One
observer wrote that while Washington sat in state on a crimson velvet settee, “the ladies were very handsomely dressed and every one strove here, as everywhere else, who
should pay the most respect.”20 It says much about Washington’s declining health that
this once-celebrated dancer seemed not to take the ﬂoor at these functions. According
to Elizabeth Schuyler Hamilton, after the war, Washington “would always choose a
partner and walk through the ﬁgures correctly, but he never danced. His favorite was
the minuet, a graceful dance, suited to his dignity and gravity.”21
After leaving Boston, Washington proceeded north along the coast, accompanied by four hundred cavalry, as the towns grew much less glamorous. In the ﬁshing port of Marblehead, no fashionable women swooned over his presence. “The
houses are old,” Washington wrote, “the streets dirty, and the common people not
very clean.”22 Washington seemed to grow heartily tired of all the festive barges,
honor guards, thirteen-gun salutes, and commemorative arches thrown in his path.
In Salem one citizen saw how oppressed Washington was by all the pomp: “His appearance as he passed thro[ugh] Court Street in Salem was far from gay or making
anyone else so. He looked oppressed by the attention that was paid him, and as he
cast his eye around, I thought it seemed to sink at the notice he attracted. When he
had got to the Court House and had patiently listened to the ditty they sung at him
and heard the shouts of the multitudes, he bowed very low and, as if he could bear
no more, turned hastily around and went into the house.”23
Desperate for some relief in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, Washington went

The Traveling Presidency r! 613

deep-sea ﬁshing with some local ﬁshermen. The outing turned into a ﬁasco: he
caught not a single ﬁsh, and when one local ﬁsherman hooked a cod, he handed
the rod to the disappointed president so he could reel it in. Doubtless feeling a little
foolish, Washington gave the man a silver dollar. He was much happier attending a
sumptuous dinner in Portsmouth, where he resumed his head count of the ladies
and showed himself a connoisseur of female coiffure. At this assembly, he wrote,
“there were about 75 well dressed and many of them very handsome ladies. Among
whom (as was also the case at the Salem and Boston assemblies) were a greater proportion with much blacker hair than are usually seen in the southern states.”24
As he circled back to New York, Washington stopped at Lexington and “viewed
the spot on which the ﬁrst blood was spilt in the dispute with Great Britain on the
19th of April 1775.”25 After treading this hallowed ground, Washington proceeded
south along crooked back roads to Waltham. Incredible as it seems, the presidential
party had to ask directions of bystanders, who often gave Washington misleading
information to the point that he complained of “blind and ignorant” advice.26 In his
diary, he sounded the universal lament of travelers, grousing about room reservations that suddenly vanished, forcing the party to move on to another town for the
night, or the atrocious entertainment at many taverns. The trip had been a colossal
undertaking for Washington, especially after his recent malady. In the space of a
month, he had toured or passed through almost sixty cities and villages. The journey had been an undisputed triumph, however, consolidating Washington’s popularity and giving citizens a sense of belonging to a single nation. For all its rigors,
the journey had also revived Washington’s health. John Trumbull said he returned
to the capital “all fragrant with the odor of incense.”27 With what must have been
indescribable relief, he arrived back at his Cherry Street mansion at three p.m. on
November 13, 1789, “where I found Mrs. Washington and the rest of the family all
well.”28 There would be no rest for the weary: having reappeared on a Friday, he had
to mingle with visitors at Martha’s weekly reception that evening.

A no t h e r e f f e c t i v e way that Washington transmitted his image to the
country and sought national unity was by sitting for portrait artists, an activity for
which he set aside a huge amount of time. In early October he devoted two hours to
an Irish artist, John Ramage, who daubed a miniature on ivory of him at Martha’s
behest. Ramage depicted a notably dour Washington dressed in a uniform adorned
by the badge of the Society of the Cincinnati. In this unﬂattering portrait, Washington’s nose looks too long and too hooked, his chin too sharp, and his expression
morose, perhaps reﬂecting his fatigue before the northern trip reinvigorated him.
Around the same time, Washington posed for the Marquise de Bréhan, who was

61 4

r! The Pr esident

variously described as either the sister or the sister-in-law of the Count de Moustier,
the French minister, with whom she lived in a scandalous liaison. A friend of Jefferson, the marquise had imagined that she was coming to an American Arcadia
and been sorely disappointed. The count, a bright but tactless eccentric, dressed
in the red-heeled shoes of French nobility and wore earrings. Both the count and
the marquise were frowned upon by most New Yorkers, who had small tolerance
for European decadence. “Appearances . . . have created and diffused an opinion
that an improper connection subsists between [Moustier] and the marchioness,”
Jay informed Jefferson. “You can easily conceive the inﬂuence of such an opinion
on the minds and feelings of such a people as ours.”29 One local resident ridiculed
the pair thus: the count was “distant, haughty, penurious, and entirely governed by
the caprices of a little singular, whimsical, hysterical old woman, whose delight is
in playing with a negro child and caressing a monkey.”30 Perhaps reluctant to offend the French minister, Washington ﬂouted convention and allowed himself to
be painted by the marquise, who completed a cameo miniature of Washington in
neoclassical style, his head bound by a laurel wreath. In this proﬁle, Washington has
the massive head and thick neck of a Roman emperor, a clear brow, a straight nose,
and a steady, godlike gaze as he stares straight ahead.
Another portrait done around this time was a direct outgrowth of Washington’s
northern trip. After giving him a tour of Philosophical Hall, with its display of scientiﬁc instruments, Harvard College president Joseph Willard asked Washington if
the university could have a portrait of him, and he agreed to sit for Edward Savage.
In late December and early January, Washington generously granted three sessions
to Savage, who portrayed him in uniform with the badge of the Society of the Cincinnati pinned to his left lapel. That Washington twice wore the badge for portraits
early in his presidency shows his desire to reassert his solidarity with the group
despite his rocky relationship with it. Savage’s ﬁnished portrait shows a calm, powerful, but stolid Washington with a spreading paunch. There is no ﬁre in the eyes or
expression in the face—so unlike his smiling, expressive wartime portraits—again
hinting at the extreme physical changes he underwent in his later years.
During this period Washington dedicated the most time to portraits by his
former aide John Trumbull, perhaps because the artist situated him in historical
settings. Washington wrote admiringly of Trumbull’s “masterly execution” and “capacious mind” and showed toward him none of the petulance or impatience he
did toward Gilbert Stuart.31 In 1790 alone Washington granted Trumbull a dozen
sessions and even went riding with him, so the painter could study him on horseback. While training with Benjamin West in London in the early 1780s, Trumbull
had been imprisoned as a secret American agent, which could only have endeared
him to Washington. Trumbull now did a towering portrait of Washington for New

The Traveling Presidency r! 615

York’s City Hall, with British ships evacuating New York in 1783 in the background,
as well as portraits celebrating the Battles of Trenton and Princeton. The Trenton picture showed Washington in all his earlier magniﬁcence, standing trim, and
erect, one gloved hand clasping his sword, his chin lifted in an elegant pose. For the
Princeton portrait, Trumbull presented Washington on the eve of battle. “I told the
President my object,” he later wrote; “he entered into it warmly, and, as the work
advanced, we talked of the scene, its dangers, its almost desperation. He looked the
scene again and I happily transferred to the canvas the lofty expression of his animated countenance, the high resolve to conquer or to perish.”32
Despite his presidential cares, Washington remained a devoted family man and
doted on nobody more than Nelly. She was such a bright, vivacious girl that Martha
described the ten-year-old in 1789 as “a wild little creature” with boundless curiosity.33 She had a sharp eye for people’s foibles and later on loved to poke fun at the
many young beaux who courted her. As she got older, she liked to sprinkle her letters playfully with French and Italian expressions.
Even as a girl, Nelly was smart and cultivated, if a triﬂe too dreamy for her
grandparents. The Washingtons never penalized her because she was a girl, and
they sent her to a boarding school in New York as a day student. They also made
sure she acquired the necessary artistic graces. She studied painting with William
Dunlap and turned out beautiful still lifes, often ﬂoral arrangements set against a
black backdrop. Later on, in Philadelphia, a dancing master named James Robardet
taught Nelly and Washy the fashionable steps required for polite society. Because
she was so creative, the Washingtons also bought Nelly an English guitar and a
harpsichord and gave her lessons with the Austrian composer Alexander Reinagle.
In the musical realm, Martha was a martinet, forcing Nelly to practice the harpsichord for hours on end until tears sprang to her eyes. “The poor girl would play and
cry, and cry and play, for long hours under the immediate eye of her grandmother,
a rigid disciplinarian in all things,” said her brother.34 Nelly also told of how, against
her grandmother’s warning, she wandered alone by moonlight in the Mount Vernon woods. When she came home, “the General was walking up and down with his
hands behind him, as was his wont,” said Nelly, while Martha, “seated in her great
armchair . . . opened a severe reproof.”35 Elsewhere Martha Washington is portrayed
as overly indulgent with her grandchildren. After spending a day with the family in
October 1789, Abigail Adams wrote that “Mrs. Washington is a most friendly, good
lady, always pleasant and easy, dotingly fond of her grandchildren, to whom she is
quite the grandmamma.”36 Several years later Nelly wrote to Washington of how she
looked up to him “with grateful affection as a parent to myself and family.”37 Part of
Nelly’s appeal for Washington was her lightness of being, which relieved the gloom
that sometimes cloaked the careworn president.

616

r! The Pr esident

According to Washy, Nelly observed how Washington’s grave presence inhibited
children at play and that even grown-up relatives “feared to speak or laugh before
him . . . not from his severity” but from “awe and respect . . . When he entered a
room where we were all mirth and in high conversation, all were instantly mute.”38
When this happened, Washington would “retire, quite provoked and disappointed.”39
It is a powerful commentary on the way in which fame estranged Washington from
the casual pleasures of everyday life, making it hard for him to get the social solace he
needed. Yet here, too, there are contrary views. His nephew Howell Lewis wrote that
when Washington was “in a lively mood, so full of pleasantry, so agreeable to all . . .
I could hardly realize that he was the same Washington whose dignity awed all who
approached him.”40 And in his memoirs, Washy reported how his sister charmed the
president, stating that “the grave dignity which he usually wore did not prevent his
keen enjoyment of a joke and that no one laughed more heartily than he did when
she herself, a gay, laughing girl, gave one of her saucy descriptions of any scene in
which she had taken part or any one of the merry pranks she then often played.”41
While Washington doted on Nelly, Martha took special pleasure in spoiling
Washy. When he was away from home, Martha grew anxious, as she had with Jacky.
On one occasion when Washy was gone and failed to write, Washington reminded
him “how apt your grandmama is to suspect that you are sick, or some accident has
happened to you, when you omit this.”42 Exasperated with the boy’s laxity, Washington criticized him in the terms he had once reserved for Washy’s father. In New
York, Washington hired a private tutor to work with Washy, who made temporary
progress in Latin but was hopeless in math and other subjects. In general, he was an
indifferent and easily distracted pupil. Washington constantly coached Washy and
advised him to mend his ways. The boy would make all the right noises, then completely ignore his advice, leading to tooth-gnashing frustration for Washington.
Like his father, Washy knew that he would inherit the Custis fortune, which made
him lazy and unfocused. George was again afraid to cross Martha on the loaded
subject of the children and the Custis money. In a fascinating letter written in 1791,
Tobias Lear talked about this uneasy standoff between the Washingtons: “I clearly
see that [Washy] is in the high road to ruin . . . The president sees it with pain, but, as
he considers that Mrs. W’s happiness is bound up in the boy, he is unwilling to take
such measures as might reclaim him, knowing that any rigidity towards him would
perhaps be productive of serious effects on her.”43 This was one area where the most
powerful man in the country tread cautiously. Where Washington did succeed was
in introducing the two children to the theater. The boy was sufﬁciently imbued with
the love of acting that he played Cassius in a performance of Julius Caesar, enacted
at the presidential mansion, and later made an effort to become a playwright—a
literary urge that resulted in a ﬂowery memoir of his grandfather.

The Traveling Presidency r! 61 7

From the outset of the administration, the Washingtons did their best to cope
with the inconveniences of the Cherry Street house. Though roomy by ordinary
standards, it could not accommodate enough people for large formal dinners and
receptions. In the fall of 1789, when Washington heard that the Count de Moustier
was being recalled to France, he jumped at the chance to occupy his house at 39–41
Broadway, on the west side of the street south of Trinity Church (erected two years
earlier by merchant Alexander Macomb). This second presidential mansion was
four stories high, featured two high-ceilinged drawing rooms, and was much more
stately than its predecessor. When one New Yorker toured the house and its two
neighbors under construction in 1787, he was thrilled by their imposing dimensions, saying that “they are by far the grandest buildings I ever saw and are said to
excel any on the continent.”44
On February 23, 1790, the Washingtons moved from their old cramped quarters to this airy, commodious new residence. Where they could seat only fourteen
people at state dinners before, they now had room for more than two dozen. In the
rear of the house, glass doors opened onto a balcony with unobstructed views of
the Hudson River. Washington also built a stable nearby with handsome planked
ﬂoors and twelve stalls for horses. With his eye for furnishings, he bought from
Moustier everything from a dozen damask armchairs to huge gilt mirrors to a bidet.
Eager to augment presidential dignity, he bought more than three hundred pieces
of gilt-edged porcelain for dinner parties. Green was the omnipresent color of the
house, which had green silk furniture and a green carpet spotted with white ﬂowers.
Washington’s love of greenery was further reﬂected in his purchase of ninety-three
glass ﬂowerpots scattered throughout the residence. It is curious that America’s ﬁrst
president chose a residence so thoroughly saturated with a French sensibility.
This executive mansion never had the dark, smoky atmosphere that we associate with an age of candlelight dinners. Attuned to the spirit of technical innovation,
Washington bought fourteen lamps of a new variety patented by Aimé Argand, a
Swiss chemist. They used whale oil and burned with a cleaner, brighter light than
anything used before, chasing away evening shadows and affording up to twelve
times the illumination of candlepower. Washington mounted these lamps in the
drawing rooms, hallway, entries, and stairwells, banishing shadows from the residence. As he wrote excitedly, “These lamps, it is said, consume their own smoke,
do no injury to furniture, give more light, and are cheaper than candles.”45 In this
manner, Washington initiated America’s insatiable appetite for oil, provided theatrical lighting to burnish the splendid statecraft that he practiced, and introduced a
welcome touch of modernity.

ch ap ter fif t y-one

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

T he State of the President

A l i t t l e a f t e r no on on Ja n ua ry 8 , 179 0 , George Washington climbed
into his cream-colored coach and rode off to Federal Hall behind a team of four
snow-white horses. In its sparsely worded style, the Constitution mandated that the
president, from time to time, should give Congress information about the state of
the Union, but it was Washington who turned this amorphous injunction into a formal speech before both houses of Congress, establishing another precedent. Trailing him in his entourage were the chief justice and members of his cabinet, leading
to yet another tradition: that the State of the Union speech (then called the annual
address) would feature leading ﬁgures from all three branches of government.
Everything about the new government still had an improvised feel, and Washington’s advent occasioned some last-minute scurrying in the Senate chamber.
Maclay referred to “nothing but bustle about the Senate Chamber in hauling chairs
and removing tables” for his arrival.1 Once at Broad and Wall, Washington entered
the hall—on later occasions, constables held back the crowd with long white rods—
and mounted to the second-ﬂoor hall. Everyone clung nervously to protocol, and
the president went through an awkward comedy of manners with the legislators.
When he entered, they rose; when he was seated, they sat. Still dressed in shades
of mourning for his mother, he was garbed in a suit of midnight blue, verging on
black, that he had brought back from the Hartford factory.
In a hopeful speech, Washington anticipated Hamilton’s ﬁnancial program by
endorsing the need to establish public credit and promote manufacturing, agriculture, and commerce. He sounded a theme already resonant in his wartime letters:
the need to ensure a strong national defense: “To be prepared for war is one of the

The State of the President r! 619

most effectual means of preserving peace.”2 He also advocated the advancement
of science, literature, and learning through the formation of a national university.
The speech was composed in the didactic style of a wise parent, patiently lecturing
his children, that characterized Washington’s public pronouncements and deﬁned
his political rhetoric. When it ended, the legislators stood, Washington bowed, and
then he descended to the street. William Maclay did not fault Washington’s speaking style, but ever watchful for monarchical tendencies, he carped that Washington
had fallen into “the British mode of business” by asking department heads to lay
certain documents before Congress.3
When Washington delivered his speech, he had little sense that a furor was
about to erupt over Hamilton’s funding system or that American politics would become fractious and nasty. Even before Hamilton took ofﬁce, Congress had enacted
legislation to create a string of lighthouses, beacons, and buoys along the eastern
seaboard for the customs service, placing Hamilton in charge of a vast public works
project. He also had enormous patronage powers, as he named customs inspectors
and other revenue ofﬁcials. During the colonial era, the evasion of customs duties
had become a time-honored practice, and Hamilton had to seek Washington’s approval for constructing ten boats called revenue cutters to police the waterways
and intercept smugglers, giving birth to what later became the Coast Guard. For
political harmony, Washington and Hamilton distributed the construction work
and skipper jobs to different parts of the country, but for a nation already wary of
bureaucracy, the program represented a signiﬁcant, and for some ominous, expansion of government power.
As the ofﬁce handling money matters, the Treasury Department was bound
to be a ﬂash point for controversy. When Congress debated its shape in 1789, republican purists wanted it headed by a three-member board as a safeguard against
concentrated power. When a single secretary was chosen instead, Congress tried to
hem in his power by requiring that, unlike the other cabinet secretaries, he should
ﬁle periodic reports directly with them. Instead of subordinating Hamilton to the
legislature, however, this approach enmeshed him in its workings. The treasury secretary’s aggressive style guaranteed that the executive branch, not Congress, would
oversee economic policy. As with foreign policy, executive primacy in economic
matters ran counter to the view of many framers who had hoped that Congress
would enjoy policy-making centrality, but this development promised greater efﬁciency and consistency than would otherwise have been the case.
On January 14, 1790, Hamilton delivered the Report on Public Credit that Congress had requested in the fall. With his nimble mind and encyclopedic store of
knowledge, Hamilton served up a magnum opus that eclipsed anything the legislators had envisioned. No evidence exists that Hamilton consulted Washington

62 0

r! The Pr esident

before he completed it. Since the president was not well schooled in the arcana of
public ﬁnance, Jefferson thought he had been hoodwinked: “Unversed in ﬁnancial projects and calculations and budgets, his approbation of them was bottomed
on conﬁdence in the man [Hamilton].”4 Jefferson’s insinuation that Washington
was a helpless dupe of Hamilton is highly misleading. Dating back to their wartime frustrations with Congress, Washington and Hamilton had shared a common
worldview and an expansive faith in executive power. They had seen ﬁrsthand how
Britain’s well-funded public debt had enabled it to prosecute the war with seemingly limitless resources. Late in the war Washington had blasted the fanciful notion
that “the war can be carried on without money, or that money can be borrowed
without permanent funds to pay the interest of it.”5
The federal government had fallen woefully in arrears in paying off the enormous debt—$54 million in national and $25 million in state obligations—amassed
to ﬁght the Revolutionary War. It would have been tempting for the young nation
to repudiate this burden, but as a matter of policy and morality, Washington and
Hamilton thought nations should honor their debts if they aspired to full membership in the community of nations. “With respect to the payment of British debts,”
Washington had written before becoming president, “I would fain hope . . . that the
good sense of this country will never suffer a violation of a public treaty, nor pass
acts of injustice to individuals. Honesty in states, as well as in individuals, will ever
be found the soundest policy.”6 If Washington gave Hamilton something close to
carte blanche on ﬁscal matters, it was because they essentially agreed on the steps
needed to tame America’s staggering debt. But he had also set up a policy-making
apparatus in which major decisions had to cross his desk for approval, so he was
conﬁdent that he could control the sometimes-brash Hamilton.
Hamilton’s audacious report argued that, to restore ﬁscal sanity, the government did not have to retire the debt at once. All it had to do was devise a mechanism
to convince people that, by setting aside revenues at predictable intervals, it would
faithfully retire it in future years. Such a well-funded debt, Hamilton argued, would
be a “national blessing” inasmuch as it would provide investment capital and an
elastic national currency.7 The report foresaw a medley of taxes, from import duties
to excise taxes on distilled spirits, to pay off existing debt and to service a new foreign loan. With its new taxes and its funded debt, Hamilton’s program was bound
to dredge up unwelcome memories of the British ministry.
In his report, Hamilton championed several controversial measures. Some original holders of the wartime promissory notes, including many Continental Army
veterans, had sold them after the war at a tiny fraction of their face value, believing
that they would never be repaid in full. Hamilton planned to redeem them at face
value and wanted current holders of the paper, even if they were speculators, to

The State of the President r! 621

reap the rewards of the steep price appreciation that would follow enactment of his
program. Only by doing this, he thought, could he establish the principle that owners of securities were entitled to all future proﬁts and losses. Without such a policy,
the United States could never establish thriving securities markets. Hamilton was
also persuaded that, since the debt had been raised to ﬁnance a national war, the
federal government should assume responsibility for the states’ debts as well. Such
an act of “assumption” would have extraordinarily potent political effects, for holders of state debt would transfer their loyalty to the new central government, binding the country together. It would also reinforce the federal government’s claim to
future tax revenues in any controversies with the states. Peerless in crafting policies
embedded with a secret political agenda, Hamilton knew how to dovetail one program with another in a way that made them all difﬁcult to undo.
Until the publication of Hamilton’s report, James Madison had been Washington’s most conﬁdential adviser. That began to erode on February 11, 1790,
when Madison rose in the House and, in a surprising volte-face, denounced the
idea that speculators should beneﬁt from Hamilton’s program. It was a stunning
shot across the bow of the administration. Madison favored a policy of so-called
discrimination—that original holders of the debt, mostly former soldiers, should
share in the windfall as the price of government paper soared. Many Americans
found it hard to see speculators rewarded instead of veterans, and Madison’s speech
tapped a powerful vein of discontent. Speculation in government debt, Madison
afﬁrmed, was “wrong, radically and morally and politically wrong.”8 As a Virginia
congressman and budding advocate of states’ rights, Madison was moving away
from the continental perspective that had united him with Hamilton when they coauthored The Federalist. For Madison, the funded debt and the expanding ranks of
Treasury employees were far too reminiscent of the British model. Feeling betrayed
by Madison, Hamilton argued that his former comrade’s discrimination proposal
was simply unworkable. To track down the original holders of securities and parcel
out their shares of the proﬁts would be a bureaucratic nightmare. He also considered speculation to be an inescapable, if unsavory, aspect of functioning ﬁnancial
markets.
As the hero of the old soldiers, Washington confronted a ticklish dilemma, and
Madison later attested that the president’s mind was “strongly exercised” by the debate.9 On the one hand, Washington sympathized with veterans who had unloaded
their IOUs to “unfeeling, avaricious speculators.”10 At the same time, he had warned
his men at the end of the war not to part with these certiﬁcates, telling them bluntly
in general orders in May 1783: “The General thinks it necessary to caution the soldiers against the foolish practice . . . of disposing of their notes and securities of pay
at a very great discount, when it is evident the speculators on those securities must

622

r! The Pr esident

hereafter obtain the full payment of their nominal value.”11 Washington’s words
had been prophetic. Because Congress had ordered Hamilton’s report, Washington
did not want to overstep his bounds by lobbying for it, and he remained cagey in
discussing it. To David Stuart, he wrote circumspectly, “Mr Madison, on the question of discrimination, was actuated, I am persuaded, by the purest motives and
most heartfelt conviction. But the subject was delicate and perhaps had better not
have been stirred.”12
While Washington introduced no ringing opinion during the debate, his silence
was tantamount to approval of the Hamiltonian system. At this point he was still
a sacred ﬁgure in American politics, making Hamilton a convenient lightning rod
for protests. It was also expedient for Washington to allow Hamilton to engage in
the rough-and-tumble of political bargaining, while he himself held fast to the ceremonial trappings of the presidency. Taken aback by Madison’s defection and the
vehement schism provoked by the public credit report, Washington was especially
disheartened that the country had split along geographic lines, placing him at odds
with the South. He wrote privately that if the northern states moved “in a solid phalanx” and the southern states were “less tenacious of their interest,” then the latter
had only themselves to blame.13
The debate over the Hamiltonian program opened a rift between Washington
and his Virginia associates that only widened through the years. Reﬂecting their
bias in favor of landed wealth and against paper assets, members of the chronically
indebted gentry recoiled in horror at the northern ﬁnancial revolution ushered
in by Hamilton. The tobacco market had fallen into a deep slump, making these
pinched Virginia planters ripe for tirades against northern speculators, who seemed
to proﬁt from easy winnings. Also, Virginia had already paid much of its debt and
therefore opposed a federal takeover of state debt, which would reward irresponsible states that had repudiated their loans. Things went so far that in some Virginia
circles Washington was regarded as almost a traitor to his class. When David Stuart
reported that spring on extreme hostility in Virginia toward the new government,
Washington grew distressed. “Your description of the public mind in Virginia gives
me pain,” he replied. “It seems to be more irritable, sour, and discontented than . . .
it is in any other state in the Union.”14 On February 22 Madison’s proposal to discriminate in favor of original holders of government debt was roundly defeated
in the House, 36–13. In a preview of problems to come for Washington, 9 of the 13
negative votes came from his home state of Virginia.

Th e dis c on t e n t of s ou t h e r n pl a n t e r s was further inﬂamed in February 1790 when Quakers, clad in black hats and coats, ﬁled a pair of explosive peti-

The State of the President r! 623

tions with Congress. One proposed an immediate halt to the slave trade, while the
other urged the unthinkable: the gradual abolition of slavery itself. Because they did
not believe that God discriminated between blacks and whites, many Quakers had
freed their own slaves and even, in some cases, compensated them for past injustice.
Washington had torn feelings about the Quakers. The previous October he had
sent an address to the Society of Quakers, full of high praise, asserting that “there is
no denomination among us who are more exemplary and useful citizens.”15 At the
same time the Quakers, as paciﬁsts, had tended to shun wartime duty.
On the slavery question, Washington reacted with extreme caution. Although
he had voiced support for emancipation in private letters, to do so publicly, as he
tried to forge a still precarious national unity, would have been a huge and controversial leap. The timing of the Quaker petitions could not have been more
troublesome. To David Stuart, he worried that the petitions “will certainly tend to
promote” southern suspicions, then added: “It gives particular umbrage that the
Quakers should be so busy in this business.”16 Washington and other founders who
opposed slavery, at least in theory, thought they had conveniently sidestepped the
issue at the Constitutional Convention by stipulating that the slave trade was safe
until 1808. But because Benjamin Franklin, as president of the Pennsylvania Abolition Society, had signed one of the Quaker petitions, they could not be summarily
dismissed. James Jackson of Georgia warned grimly of civil war if the petitions
passed, claiming that “the people of the southern states will resist one tyranny as
soon as another.”17 Responding to planter panic, James Madison led congressional
opposition to any interference with slavery, unfurling the banner of states’ rights.
Although Hamilton had cofounded the New York Manumission Society, he, like
Washington, remained silent on the issue, hoping to push through the controversial
funding program. In fact, virtually all of the founders, despite their dislike of slavery, enlisted in this conspiracy of silence, taking the convenient path of deferring
action to a later generation.
Washington tended to conceal his inmost thoughts about slavery, revealing
them only to intimates who shared his opposition. He knew of the virulence of
Virginia’s reaction to the Quaker petitions, especially when Stuart told him that
the mere talk of emancipation had alarmed planters and lowered the price of
slaves, with many “sold for the merest triﬂe.”18 In replying to Stuart, Washington
seemed to have no sympathy with the petitions, which he dismissed as doomed.
On the morning of March 16 he met with Warner Mifﬂin, a leading Quaker abolitionist, and deemed the conversation important enough to record in his diary.
Mifﬂin had decried the “injustice and impolicy of keeping these people in a state
of slavery with declarations, however, that he did not wish for more than a gradual
abolition, or to see any infraction of the Constitution to effect it.” Washington

62 4

r! The Pr esident

listened attentively to Mifﬂin, then employed his famous gift of silence: “To these I
replied that, as it was a matter which might come before me for ofﬁcial decision, I
was not inclined to express any sentim[en]ts on the merits of the question before
this should happen.”19
The Quaker memorials ended up stillborn in Congress. In late March, under
Madison’s leadership, legislators quietly tabled the proposals by deciding they lacked
jurisdiction to interfere with the slave trade prior to 1808. “The memorial of the
Quakers (and a very mal-apropos one it was) has at length been put to sleep” and
will not “awake before the year 1808,” Washington informed Stuart.20 His failure to
use the presidency as a bully pulpit to air his opposition to slavery remains a blemish on his record. He continued to fall back on the self-serving fantasy that slavery
would fade away in future years. The public had no idea how much he wrestled
inwardly with the issue. His ﬁnal comments to Stuart on the Quaker petitions are
complacent in tone, designed to conceal his conﬂicted feelings: “The introductions
of the [Quaker] memorial respecting slavery was, to be sure, not only an ill-judged
piece of business, but occasioned a great waste of time.”21
In April, shortly after his noble defeat over the slavery issue, Benjamin Franklin
died. He was the only American whose stature remotely compared to that of Washington. During his ﬁnal weeks Franklin had insisted that liberty should extend “without distinction of color to all descriptions of people.”22 In his will Franklin paid a
typically ingenious compliment to Washington: “My ﬁne crabtree walking stick, with
a gold head curiously wrought in the form of the cap of liberty, I give to my friend,
and the friend of mankind, General Washington. If it were a scepter, he has merited
it and would become it.”23 After the Senate voted down a motion to wear mourning
for Franklin, Jefferson turned to Washington for an appropriate tribute: “I proposed
to General Washington that the executive department should wear mourning. He
declined it because he said he would not know where to draw the line if he once began
that ceremony.”24 One wonders whether, after the Quaker petitions, Washington had
more than presidential etiquette in mind in the decision. The country was curiously
devoid of public eulogies to Franklin; the National Assembly in Paris outdid Congress
in its tributes, as the Count de Mirabeau paid eloquent homage to “the genius who
liberated America and poured upon Europe torrents of light.”25
Washington very nearly followed Franklin to his grave. On Sunday, April 4, he
reported in his diary: “At home all day—unwell.”26 Two days later he sat for a second
portrait by Edward Savage, commissioned by Vice President John Adams. Unlike
the earlier Savage portrait done for Harvard, which showed a man of magisterial
calm, this one presented a far more troubled man, the left side of his face dipped in
shadow. With a double chin protruding over his jabot and a prominent bag drooping under his right eye, he has a deeply unsettled look. People gossiped that a myste-

The State of the President r! 625

rious fever had gripped the president. “I do not know the exact state of GW’s health
for a day or two last,” Pennsylvania congressman George Clymer wrote on April 11,
“but it is observed here with a great deal of anxiety that his general health seems
to be declining. For some time past, he has been subject to a slow fever.”27 Georgia
congressman Abraham Baldwin agreed. “Our great and good man has been unwell
again this spring,” he told a friend. “I never saw him more emaciated.”28 From April
20 through 24, in a concerted effort to rescue his health, Washington toured Long
Island, traveling as far east as Brookhaven on the south shore before heading up
to Setauket on the north shore, then circling back to Manhattan. Upon his return,
everybody said Washington looked more robust; Robert Morris reassured his wife
that the president had “regained his looks, his appetite, and his health.”29 The improvement did not last. By this point a severe inﬂuenza epidemic was proliferating
in the city. James Madison had contracted it, and Washington imprudently asked
him to stop by his house on April 27, which may have infected him with the inﬂuenza as well. On May 7 William Maclay informed Dr. Benjamin Rush that the
president had “nearly lost his hearing” from the illness, which must have been a
heavy blow for Washington.30
On Sunday, May 9, Washington noted: “Indisposed with a bad cold and at home
all day writing letters on private business.”31 The next day he was conﬁned to bed.
By this time Madison, having rebounded from his illness, said that the president
suffered from “peripneumony, united probably with the inﬂuenza,” and others
mentioned pleurisy as well.32 This suggests that he suffered from a combination of
labored breathing, sharp pains in his side, harsh coughing, and blood in his spittle.
Whatever the original disease, it deepened into pneumonia. In addition to hearing loss, eyewitnesses mentioned that Washington’s eyes were rheumy and that he
seemed prematurely aged. He was far from alone in a city seized by widespread
illness. By mid-May the inﬂuenza had exploded in such epidemic proportions that
Richard Henry Lee described Manhattan as “a perfect hospital—few are well and
many very sick.”33
As fears mounted about whether the president would survive, three eminent doctors were consulted: Dr. Samuel Bard, Dr. John McKnight, and Dr. John Charlton.
As Washington’s condition worsened, they decided on May 12 to summon Dr. John
Jones, a surgeon from Philadelphia, who had been the personal physician to Ben
Franklin. So as not to alert the public to Washington’s true condition, the presidential aides tried to sneak Dr. Jones in under conditions of extraordinary secrecy. “The
doctor’s prudence will suggest the propriety of setting out as privately as possible,”
Major William Jackson told Clement Biddle of Philadelphia. “Perhaps it may be well
to assign a personal reason for visiting New York, or going into the country.”34
The street in front of Washington’s residence was again cleared of trafﬁc and

62 6

r! The Pr esident

carpeted with straw to mute sounds. With such precautions, rumors inevitably circulated about Washington’s perilous condition. “Called to see the president,” William Maclay wrote on May 15. “Every eye full of tears. His life despaired of.”35 With
Washington coughing up blood and running a high fever, Dr. McKnight hinted to
Maclay that there was little hope of recovery and that death might be imminent.
Beset by hiccups, Washington made strange gurgling noises that were interpreted
as a death rattle. What one observer described as “a universal gloom” overspread a
country long accustomed to Washington’s steady presence.36
On May 16, against all expectations and after the team of physicians had pronounced the case hopeless, the president rallied and underwent a startling improvement. At four in the afternoon he broke into a tremendous sweat, his coughing
abated, and he spoke more clearly than he had in days. In a tone of joy and mild
disbelief, Jefferson told his daughter that “from a total despair, we are now in good
hopes of him.”37 On May 18 the president’s condition surfaced in a press that had
preserved discreet silence. “The President of the United States has been exceedingly
indisposed for several days past,” the New-York Journal informed readers, “but we
are rejoiced at the authentic information of his being much relieved the last evening.”38 For the next two weeks, although a convalescent Washington could not
perform presidential duties, he was now clearly on the mend. In early June he assured Lafayette that he was well out of danger and had rebounded “except in point
of strength.”39
Throughout the ordeal, Martha Washington supervised the sickroom and
behaved with stoic equanimity. To Mercy Otis Warren, she admitted that the tremendous display of public sympathy had been “very affecting” to her. Her selfpossessed husband, she said, had gone through the crisis with typical composure:
“He seemed less concerned himself as to the event than perhaps almost any other
person in ye United States. Happily, he is now perfectly recovered.”40 From the time
he was a young man, Washington had faced death with uncommon fortitude, and
this time proved no exception. By May 20 his fever had ebbed, and two days later
Richard Henry Lee found him sitting up in a chair. Helped by his naturally hardy
nature, the president made rapid strides. “The President is again on his legs,” Philip
Schuyler reported the next day. “He was yesterday able to traverse his room a dozen
times.”41 A couple of days later he was even out riding. On May 27 Jefferson declared
an ofﬁcial end to the crisis when he stated that Washington was “well enough to resume business.”42 The country had narrowly averted catastrophe, for John Adams,
whatever his merits, would never have been the unifying ﬁgure needed to launch
the constitutional experiment. Still, Washington remained in a weakened state, so
drained of energy that he did not resume his diary until June 24.
As in the crisis of Washington’s infected thigh a year earlier, the federal gov-

The State of the President r! 627

ernment had been poorly prepared for this serious lapse in the president’s health.
With Tobias Lear out of town, Major William Jackson effectively ran the presidential
ofﬁce. No ofﬁcial procedure for deputizing someone during a presidential illness
existed, and Washington may have been reluctant to grant precedence to any cabinet
ofﬁcer. As he lobbied for his ﬁnancial program, the high-ﬂying Hamilton functioned
as de facto head of state. In later unpublished comments about this anxious time,
Hamilton said that Jefferson viewed him then for the ﬁrst time as “a formidable
rival in the competition for the presidential chair at a future period.” While others
brooded about the president’s fate, Hamilton alleged, the situation “only excited the
ambitious ardor of the secretary [of state] to remove out of his way every dangerous
opponent. That melancholy circumstance suggested to him the probability of an
approaching vacancy in the presidential chair and that he would attract the public
attention as the successor to it, were the more popular Secretary of the Treasury out
of the way.”43 Hamilton offered no proof to back up his assertion, and Jefferson likely
would have made the same claim about Hamilton. Before too long the mutual suspicions simmering between the two men would burst into open warfare.
The president having withstood two grave illnesses, the capital was rife with
copious opinions as to how best to preserve his precious health. A chorus of friends
and physicians alike urged him to dedicate more time to exercise and lessen the
strain of public business. Even in mid-June Washington could not quite get rid of
the remnants of his chest pains, coughing, and shortness of breath and acknowledged the dreadful toll that dinners, meetings, and receptions had taken on his
constitution. “Within the last twelve months,” he told David Stuart, “I have undergone more and severer sickness than thirty preceding years afﬂicted me with, put
it altogether.”44 The next bout of illness, he predicted, would “put me to sleep with
my fathers.”45 By nature a conscientious, hardworking man, Washington confessed
to Lafayette that he could not stop doing all the things necessary “to accomplish
whatever I have undertaken (though reluctantly) to the best of my abilities.”46
Washington heeded the doctors’ stark warning that he should get more outdoor
activity. On June 6 he accompanied Jefferson and Hamilton on a ﬁshing trip off
Sandy Hook. It was a ﬁne spring day, and the newspapers hoped the president felt
reinvigorated by the sea air. “We are told he has had excellent sport,” one paper
commented, “having himself caught a great number of sea bass and blackﬁsh.”47
After resuming his diary, Washington jotted down many instances of riding in his
coach or on horseback as he tried to pry himself away from his sedentary life. For
health reasons, Washington also contemplated the purchase of a farm outside Philadelphia, which never happened.
Washington’s back-to-back illnesses in 1789 and 1790 contributed to the sudden aging of a man who had long been associated with graceful virility. The two

62 8

r! The Pr esident

episodes would have greatly deepened his sense that he was sacriﬁcing his life for
his country and that he would likely have little or no retirement beyond the presidency. Washington had grown more haggard during these medical emergencies.
Fanny Bassett Washington wrote the following year, “The president looks better
than I expected to see him, but still there be traces in his countenance of his two
last severe illnesses, which I fear will never wear off.”48 The crises also left Martha
Washington in a reﬂective, despondent mood. She told Mercy Otis Warren, “But
for the ties of affection which attract me so strongly to my near connection and
worthy friends, I should feel myself indeed much weaned from all enjoyments of
this transitory life.”49

ch ap ter fif t y-t wo

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Capital Matters

A f t e r most of t h e stat e s had ratiﬁed the Constitution by the summer
of 1788, James Madison had broached to George Washington a topic that engaged
both their emotional loyalties and their ﬁnancial interests: the location of the future
capital. Aware that New York and Philadelphia would emerge as serious candidates,
Madison hoped the banks of the Potomac River might ultimately house the federal
government. As ﬂourishing population growth on the western frontier enhanced
the prospects for a southern capital, Madison believed that time was on the South’s
side. Washington’s red-hot enthusiasm for the Potomac had scarcely cooled, and he
still embraced the river as the ideal portal to the interior and hence the optimal site
for the capital. The Potomac was the natural “center of the union,” he had explained
to Arthur Young. “It is between the extremes of heat and cold . . . and must from its
extensive course through a rich and populous country become in time the grand
emporium of North America.”1
Since it would exert far-reaching inﬂuence, the choice of venue for the capital was fraught with controversy. Most obviously, it would mean a commercial
windfall for nearby property owners; Madison and Henry Lee scooped up land
along the Potomac to proﬁt from any future capital. The political leanings of
the surrounding region would affect legislators isolated from constituents back
home. Jefferson and other agrarians also wanted a capital remote from the noxious impact of large cities and northern manufacturing. Finally, many southern legislators preferred a southern city where they could transport their slaves
without being harassed by abolitionists. So vexed was the capital question that
Madison almost despaired of a satisfactory solution. “The business of the seat of

630

r! The Pr esident

government is become a labyrinth for which the votes printed furnish no clue,”
he lamented in June 1790.2
The deadlock over the issue coincided with a stalemate over Hamilton’s plan
to have the federal government assume state debts. Washington noted that the two
debates had ensnared Congress in ceaseless rancor, telling David Stuart that June
that “the questions of assumption, residence, and other matters have been agitated
with warmth and intemperance, with prolixity and threats.”3 Washington’s fantasy
of nonpartisan civility in politics was being rapidly eroded by growing polarization
along north-south lines. Still recuperating from illness, he found it easy to stay aloof
from the debates on assumption and the capital, but he clearly supported Hamilton’s objectives, echoing his treasury secretary’s belief that the “cause in which the
expenses of the war was incurred was a common cause” and should be borne by
the federal government.4 It was also universally known that he favored a Potomac
capital. “It is in fact the interest of the President of the United States that pushes
the Potomac,” William Maclay protested in his diary. “He by means of Jefferson,
Madison . . . and others urges this business.”5
In early June 1790 the House enacted Hamilton’s funding bill but omitted his
contentious plan to assume state debt. Maclay, among others, spied a political
agenda lodged deep in the proposal, which would give the federal government a
“pretext for seizing every resource of government and subject of taxation in the
Union.”6 Madison was enraged that states that had mostly paid their debts—
Virginia, Maryland, and Georgia—would subsidize proﬂigate states that had not.
Complicating matters was the incipient feud between Hamilton and Jefferson. Now
detecting signs of monarchy sprouting everywhere, Jefferson associated a funded
debt with the British Empire and, despite his presence in the cabinet, secretly joined
forces with Madison against Hamilton. He was chagrined by Hamilton’s decision to
reward speculators in government debt, whom he saw as “fraudulent purchasers of
this paper . . . ﬁlched from the poor and ignorant.”7
The twin debates over assumption and the capital grew so venomous that it
seemed the Union might dissolve in acrimony. It was against this backdrop that, on
June 19, Jefferson ran into Hamilton before Washington’s residence on Broadway.
Usually Hamilton cut a dapper ﬁgure, but Jefferson found him strangely transformed by the hubbub surrounding him. “His look was somber, haggard, and
dejected . . . Even his dress uncouth and neglected,” Jefferson wrote.8 For half an
hour the two men paced before Washington’s door as Hamilton expatiated on the
dangerous disunity in Congress, the urgent need for cabinet solidarity, and the
malaise threatening the new government. The upshot was that, the next day, Jefferson hosted a dinner for Hamilton and Madison at his lodgings at 57 Maiden Lane.
During this famous meal, in an apartment adorned with engravings of Washing-

Capital Matters r! 63 1

ton, a grand deal was brokered. Jefferson and Madison agreed to aid passage of the
assumption bill, while Hamilton promised to lobby the Pennsylvania delegation
to endorse Philadelphia as the temporary capital and the Potomac as its ﬁnal destination. For Hamilton, who favored New York as the capital, it was a bitter pill to
swallow, but he viewed the assumption of state debt as the crux of federal power.
Only belatedly did Jefferson, a states’ rights advocate, realize his colossal strategic
error, grumbling to Washington that he had been royally “duped by Hamilton” and
saying that “of all the errors of my political life, this has occasioned me the deepest
regret.”9 He believed that Hamilton, to consolidate federal power and promote a
northern ﬁnancial cabal, wanted to make the federal debt so gigantic that it would
never be extinguished.
In July Congress approved the Residence Act, naming Philadelphia as the temporary capital for ten years, followed by a permanent move to a ten-mile-square
federal district on the Potomac by December 1, 1800. There is no ﬁrm evidence
that Washington was consulted about the dinner deal hatched by Hamilton, Jefferson, and Madison. Nevertheless everybody knew that he had large landholdings
along the river, was involved in its improvement, and would beneﬁt immensely
from the decision. In his diary, Maclay fumed that Washington stood behind the
dinner deal: “The President of the U.S. has (in my opinion) had great inﬂuence in
this business.”10 He saw Washington as a tool manipulated by the dexterous Hamilton, saying that “the president has become in the hands of Hamilton the dishclout
[dishcloth] of every dirty speculation, as his name goes to wipe away blame and
silence all murmuring.”11
The Residence Act had not selected the precise spot on the Potomac for the
capital, merely specifying a sixty-ﬁve-mile stretch of the river and granting Washington the power to choose the site. He would ofﬁcially supervise the federal district, appointing and overseeing three commissioners charged with surveying and
constructing the new city, and he was to exert an incalculable inﬂuence on its development. In a proclamation that January that shocked nobody, he announced the
choice of a site just north of Mount Vernon. There was muted grumbling about
Washington’s conﬂict of interest here. Long after Washington died, John Adams
stated baldly that Washington had proﬁted “from the federal city, by which he
raised the value of his property and that of his family a thousand percent at an expense to the public of more than his whole fortune.”12 Washington was also accused
of high-handed behavior in arrogating the right to pick the spot instead of yielding
to his three commissioners. Maclay seemed overwrought: “I really am surprised at
the conduct of the president . . . To take on him to ﬁx the spot by his own authority,
when he might have placed the three commissioners in the post of responsibility, was a thoughtless act.”13 The controversy shattered some magic spell that had

632

r! The Pr esident

spared Washington from criticism, and people no longer felt muzzled about challenging him directly.
Whatever his bias in choosing a southern capital, Washington still took to heart
his position as president of all Americans. So long as Rhode Island had refused to
ratify the Constitution, it had been ostracized as a renegade state, and Washington
had boycotted it during his northern tour. As soon as the state joined the Union in
May 1790, however, Washington was eager to remedy that omission. A few days after
Congress adjourned on August 12, Washington set out for Rhode Island, accompanied by Jefferson and New York governor George Clinton, sailing out through
Long Island Sound. The ﬁrst stop was Newport, where a Jewish merchant and fellow Mason, Moses Seixas, greeted the president on behalf of Congregation Yeshuat
Israel, assuring him that the Lord had “shielded your head in the day of battle” and
protected him as “chief magistrate in these states.”14 As if seeking words of reassurance, Seixas noted that the Jewish congregation had formerly been deprived of
“the invaluable rights of free citizens.”15 This elicited from Washington a letter to
the Hebrew Congregation that ranks as his most beautifully enduring statement on
religious toleration, showing that he had no notion of foisting a Christian state on
the nation:
All possess alike liberty of conscience and immunities of citizenship. It is now no
more that toleration is spoken of, as if it was by the indulgence of one class of people
that another enjoyed the exercise of their inherent natural rights. For happily the
government of the United States, which gives to bigotry no sanction, to persecution
no assistance, requires only that they who live under its protection should demean
themselves as good citizens . . . May the children of the stock of Abraham, who dwell
in this land, continue to merit and enjoy the goodwill of the other inhabitants.16

Three months earlier Washington had shown similarly affectionate respect for
the Jews in writing to a congregation in Savannah, Georgia. With deft artistry, he
identiﬁed both American Christians and ancient Jews as recipients of God’s mercy
in their days of bondage: “May the same wonder-working deity, who long since
delivering the Hebrews from their Egyptian oppressors, planted them in the Promised Land—whose providential agency has lately been conspicuous in establishing
these United States as an independent nation—still continue to water them with
the dews of heaven.”17 As patriarch of the nation, Washington naturally fell into
biblical phraseology that encompassed elevated language from both the Old and
New Testaments.
The next day, having arrived in Providence in time for a private dinner, Washington was on the verge of turning in for the night when he was informed that

Capital Matters r! 633

students had lit up the windows of Rhode Island College (later Brown University)
in his honor. As one host recalled of Washington’s exceedingly courteous response,
the students said they “would be highly ﬂattered at the president’s going to see it,
which he politely agreed to do, though he never goes out at night and it then rained
a little and was a disagreeable night. We now made a nocturnal procession to the
college, which indeed was worth seeing, being very splendidly illuminated.”18 The
next day was unseasonably raw and cold, but Washington still had bountiful energy
to see the city. He walked for hours, toured the college, inspected a merchant ship
in drydock, drank wine and punch, and sat patiently through numberless speeches
before a town hall dinner.
On August 22 he returned to New York for what would prove a brief ﬁnal interval for the temporary capital. Under the Residence Act, the government was set to
transfer to Philadelphia by early December, yet the exodus had begun in earnest in
midsummer once Congress concluded its work on August 12. Washington craved
the tranquillity of Mount Vernon, where he could rest and recover fully from his
recent illness, and decided to make an extended stay there before the transition to
Philadelphia.
When he left New York on August 30, 1790, Washington again indulged the impossible daydream of avoiding any pageantry to mark his ofﬁcial farewell. At dawn
he gathered his wife, two grandchildren, two aides, four servants, and four slaves for
a last glimpse of the Broadway house, when he suddenly heard the strains of a band
outside striking up a tune called “Washington’s March.” A glum Washington saw no
surcease from the cloying adulation. Outside Governor Clinton, Chief Justice Jay,
and a mass of excited citizens had shown up to tender their last respects and send
him off on a barge, climaxed by a thirteen-gun salute from the Battery.
As the boat drifted off into the Hudson River, Washington stood erect in the
stern, then swung around toward the Manhattan shore and waved his hat in farewell,
provoking a responsive roar from the spectators. When the barge had ﬂoated halfway
across the Hudson, he picked up the sprightly peal of trumpets from the Jersey shore
at Paulus Hook (now Jersey City), where Governor Richard Howell and the cavalry
waited to escort him on the ﬁrst leg of his journey. As he traversed the route south
from Newark to Trenton, across which a ragged Continental Army had retreated in
defeat in 1776, Washington was cheered at every hamlet along the way.
When he reached Philadelphia, Washington beheld the new capital in the grip
of unabashed Washington mania. Ascending his white charger, he trailed the cavalry as it sliced an opening through pedestrian-packed streets. At the City Tavern
his burly, outgoing friend Robert Morris awaited him with an outstretched hand.
The city of Philadelphia had rented Morris’s house at 190 High Street (later Market
Street) near the corner of Sixth as the new presidential mansion. Surrounded by

63 4

r! The Pr esident

stately brick walls that afforded privacy both to the building and to a well-shaded
garden, the house was a substantial, four-story brick structure with tall, handsome
windows. During his short stay Washington traipsed through its rooms and cast
a discerning, but also critical, glance at its appointments. “It is, I believe, the best
single house in the city,” Washington told Tobias Lear, who lingered in Manhattan
with Billy Lee. “Yet, without additions, it is inadequate to the commodious accommodation of my family.”19 Although Washington and his entourage headed toward
Mount Vernon on September 6, the president, with his strong visual powers and
grasp of detail, never stopped dwelling on the decoration of the house. Throughout
the fall he peppered Tobias Lear with nine long letters, spelling out the changes he
wanted, right down to the color of the curtains, once the Morrises had vacated the
premises and relocated to another house down the block.
In corresponding with Lear, Washington was intent on turning the house into
a showpiece for visiting dignitaries. On the ﬁrst ﬂoor, which would have two reception rooms, he had the south wall demolished and installed bow windows to
afford visitors a view of the clock tower atop Independence Hall. This room, with
its curved windows, is thought by some historians to have been the prototype of
the Oval Ofﬁce that would later grace the White House. Lear tried frantically to
ready the house for the Washingtons, carting in ﬁfty-eight loads of new furniture.
Because so many Philadelphia buildings were being renovated at once for the new
government, a drastic labor shortage made it difﬁcult to hire workers, even at extortionate wages. “House rent has risen here to an exorbitant pitch and many other
things are following very fast,” Lear complained.20
The return to Mount Vernon, instead of offering a respite, only reminded Washington of the parlous state of his personal ﬁnances. In July he had corresponded
with Clement Biddle about buying a farm the latter owned outside Philadelphia,
hoping to trade it for some properties he owned in western Pennsylvania. The president admitted he was ﬂat broke. “I shall candidly declare that to pay money is out
of the question with me—I have none and would not, if it was to be had, run in
debt to borrow.”21
Planning to bring a full complement of servants to Philadelphia, Washington
scribbled detailed notes about their distribution in their sleeping quarters. Before
returning north in late November, he also wanted to ensure that his slaves were
suitably attired. Capable of paying microscopic attention to their clothing—his account books brim with notations for shirts, stockings, hats, rufﬂes, and other fancy
articles he bought for his slaves—he advised Lear on the fashionable hats he wanted
for Giles and Paris, his coachman and postilion, and for Hercules, whom he was
bringing along as the new household chef. “Upon examining the caps of Giles and
Paris,” he wrote, “I ﬁnd they (especially Paris’s) are much worn and will be unﬁt

Capital Matters r! 635

to appear in with decency after the journey from hence is performed. I therefore
request that you will have two handsome ones made, with fuller and richer tassels
at top than the old ones have.”22 There is something sad about George Washington’s decking out his slaves in this gaily elegant clothing as part of the presidential
retinue.
The journey to Philadelphia left Washington in high dudgeon because of what
he condemned as “the most infamous roads” and the chronic drunkenness of his
coachman, Arthur Dunn, who was banished from the coach and consigned to the
baggage wagon, which he twice overturned. When he arrived in Philadelphia, expecting to ﬁnd a tidy residence, Washington was aghast at the incomplete state of
the presidential mansion. Even the main dining room and his private study needed
further work. The contrite Lear could only plead a dearth of workmen. As a presidential headquarters, the house left much to be desired, with Washington’s public ofﬁce on the third ﬂoor obligating visitors to ascend two steep ﬂights to reach
him. The chaos and clutter in the house could only have exasperated Washington,
who had to deliver his annual message to Congress in a week. Even though he had
emerged as a vocal critic of Hamilton’s policies, Madison retained enough of the
president’s ear that he assisted in drafting the speech.
The new Congress convened in the State House on Chestnut Street that had
hosted the Continental Congress in 1775 and witnessed the Declaration of Independence in 1776. To provide comfortable seating, the House of Representatives
had ordered sixty-ﬁve armchairs, upholstered in black leather, while the Senate,
not to be outdone, had twenty-seven seats richly done up in “red Morocco,” all
beautifully adorned with brass tacks.23 On December 8, dressed in black velvet,
Washington delivered his speech to Congress in such a soft, breathy voice that Vice
President Adams had to repeat it to legislators after he left. Aside from bitter wrangling over Hamilton’s program, this moment was a peaceful interlude in American
politics. Commerce had ﬂourished under Washington’s aegis, and he offered an
optimistic assessment of the country. At the beginning of his talk, he pointed to
the appreciation of American debt as a direct consequence of Hamilton’s program:
“The progress of public credit is witnessed by a considerable rise of American stock
abroad as well as at home.”24 Government paper had tripled in value since the new
government started. At the same time, Washington reacted to charges that Hamilton favored perpetual government debt and invited opposing legislators to
reduce it by selling western lands. The way Washington defended his controversial
treasury secretary, while subtly leaving the door ajar to a modiﬁcation of his programs, was a ﬁne example of his ﬁnesse in managing to be both forceful and conciliatory at once.
When the House asked Hamilton that December for further measures to

63 6

r! The Pr esident

strengthen public credit, he proposed an excise tax on whiskey and other domestically distilled spirits. For many western communities, this was a radical and incendiary measure. Not only did many farmers have an unquenchable thirst for
homemade brew, but they often found it economical to convert grain into whiskey
and sell it in this portable form. As with his program to assume state debt, Hamilton admitted to Washington that the whiskey tax was a way to strengthen the federal government by laying “hold of so valuable a resource of revenue before it was
generally preoccupied by the state governments.”25
The excise tax kindled ﬁerce debate in Congress as well as widespread doubt that
it could be enforced in western communities that had ﬂouted previous efforts to
tax their moonshine. Anticipating resistance, Hamilton drew up a plan for a small
army of inspectors and tax collectors, breeding fears of a vast new bureaucracy applying draconian measures. Among the predictable skeptics was William Maclay.
On the day the excise tax passed the Senate, he scoffed that it would be unenforceable in the rambunctious precincts of western Pennsylvania. “War and bloodshed
is the most likely consequence of all this,” he predicted accurately. “Congress may
go home. Mr. Hamilton is all powerful and fails in nothing which he attempts.”26
While bracing for a probable backlash against the tax, Hamilton maintained that
the government needed more revenues and insisted that opponents would deem
other possible taxes, such as one on land, still more odious. Washington and Hamilton had the thankless task of implementing the ﬁrst tax systems in a country with
a deeply ingrained suspicion of all taxes.
Be f or e t h e c a pi ta l moved to Philadelphia,Washington had no trouble
incorporating his suite of seven slaves into the presidential household. Martha also
traveled about in a coach with a personal escort of slaves, as Colonel Thomas Rodney observed when he went riding in Manhattan with her and Polly Lear: “Just
before them [were] a mulatto girl behind the carriage and a Negro manservant on
horseback behind.”27 Washington must have sensed that the government’s switch to
Philadelphia would complicate matters with his slaves, for Pennsylvania had been
the ﬁrst state to undertake the gradual abolition of slavery, in 1780. Philadelphia, in
particular, had a large community of free blacks and a robust abolitionist movement. In bringing his slaves north, Washington violated his long-standing policy
of not breaking up slave families. In late October, when Tobias Lear described how
the slaves would be housed in sleeping quarters in Philadelphia, he admitted as
much: “None of the men will have their wives in the family.”28 It was decided to
lodge some slaves, including Billy Lee, in the four garret rooms; some in the former smokehouse; and some in an outlying building called the Servants Hall. The
composition of Washington’s team of slaves also underwent signiﬁcant changes. In

Capital Matters r! 63 7

New York he had chafed at the tasteless cooking and unsanitary habits of his cook,
Rachel Lewis. As he contemplated the move to Philadelphia, Washington decided
to ﬁre her, informing Lear that “the dirty ﬁgures of Mrs. Lewis and her daughter
will not be a pleasant sight in view . . . of the principal entertaining rooms in our
new habitation.”29
Instead, Washington brought his favorite chef from Mount Vernon, the able
Hercules, also known as Uncle Harkless, who teamed up with Samuel Fraunces to
keep an immaculately clean, bustling kitchen. Handsome and muscular, Hercules
was a dandyish ﬁgure who moved about Philadelphia with considerable freedom,
attending theater and other entertainments. By dint of talent and hard work, he
forced Washington to treat him as more than just a slave and got permission to
sell scraps from the presidential kitchen, pocketing the proceeds. He also got the
president to bring his adolescent son Richmond to Philadelphia to serve as his scullion. Washington seemed miffed by the request, conﬁding sarcastically to Lear that
the idle boy hadn’t gotten the appointment “from his appearance or merits,” but
he obviously felt that he could not turn Hercules down.30 In much the same way,
Washington sometimes obliged Billy Lee against his better judgment. Left behind at
Mount Vernon was Richmond’s mother, a seamstress known as Lame Alice.
Also setting out for Philadelphia in the fall of 1790 was the adolescent slave
Christopher Sheels, who would eventually replace Billy Lee as Washington’s body
servant. A third-generation Mount Vernon slave, the ﬁfteen-year-old Sheels was
separated from his mother, Alice, a spinner, and his grandmother Doll, a cook. The
mulatto slave Austin, separated from his wife at Mount Vernon, arrived in Philadelphia by stagecoach along with Hercules. Martha also brought along her two dower
slaves, Moll and the teenage Ona Judge, for her personal entourage. As the person
who dressed Martha’s hair and laid out her clothes, Ona Judge held a special place
in the presidential household.
In early April 1791 Attorney General Edmund Randolph delivered a startling
piece of news to the Washingtons. Under the 1780 Pennsylvania statute, any adult
slaves resident in the state for six consecutive months were automatically free.
Three of Randolph’s own slaves had served notice that they planned to claim their
freedom. Bizarrely, the attorney general of the United States urged the president
and ﬁrst lady to evade this local law. Coaching them how to do so, he noted that
once slaves were taken out of Pennsylvania and then brought back, the clock was
reset, and another six months needed to elapse before they could demand their
freedom. At ﬁrst Washington imagined, wrongly, that federal ofﬁcials in the capital
were exempt from the law. Still, he fretted to Tobias Lear that people in “the practice of enticing slaves” might not make such ﬁne distinctions.31 With paternalistic
certitude, he doubted that, even if any of his slaves opted for freedom, they would

63 8

r! The Pr esident

be “beneﬁtted by the change, yet the idea of freedom might be too great a temptation for them to resist.”32 Washington was especially alarmed about this prospect,
since all of his slaves in Philadelphia, except Hercules and Paris, were dower slaves,
meaning that Washington would have to reimburse the Custis estate if they ﬂed his
household.
Not taking any chances, Washington decided to shuttle his slaves back to Mount
Vernon for brief stays before their six-month time limits expired. As minors, Christopher Sheels, Richmond, and Ona Judge were all debarred from seeking their freedom. To keep the adult slaves in bondage, Washington resorted to various ruses
so they would not know why they were being sent home temporarily. As he said
bluntly, “I wish to have it accomplished under pretext that may deceive both them
[i.e., the slaves] and the public.”33 This was a rare instance of George Washington
scheming, and Martha Washington and Tobias Lear connived right along with him.
In April Martha sent Austin back to Mount Vernon under the pretext of honoring a
promise that he could return periodically to see his wife. In writing to Fanny about
the visit, Martha showed how coolly she could lie, saying that Austin’s stay at Mount
Vernon “will be short, indeed. I could but illy spare him at this time, but to fulﬁll my
promise to his wife.”34 That spring, when Martha took a short excursion to Trenton,
she deliberately took two slaves across state lines. In a similarly duplicitous vein,
Washington advised her to return to Mount Vernon in May, then summon Hercules home to cook for her. So top secret were these machinations that Washington
advised Tobias Lear, “I request that these sentiments and this advice may be known
to none but yourself & Mrs. Washington.”35
Such devious tactics ran counter to Washington’s professed abhorrence of slavery, not to mention his storied honesty. Even more startling was the acquiescence
of Tobias Lear, the young idealist who had balked at working for Washington because the latter owned slaves. In the midst of corresponding with Washington over
foiling the Pennsylvania law, Lear suddenly remembered that he and Washington
were supposed to be long-term opponents of slavery, and he wrote guiltily to the
president: “You will permit me now, Sir . . . to declare that no consideration should
induce me to take these steps to prolong the slavery of a human being had I not
the fullest conﬁdence that they will, at some future period, be liberated and the
strongest conviction that their situation with you is far preferable to what they
would probably obtain in a state of freedom.”36 This strange declaration shows that
Washington had already told a few conﬁdants of his intention to free his slaves
someday, while saying that, in the interim, the slaves were somehow better off than
if they were emancipated.
Washington and Lear wondered whether the slaves knew of the Pennsylvania
law that lay behind these subterfuges. They were especially curious about Hercules,

Capital Matters r! 639

who had been told he would be sent by stagecoach to Mount Vernon in June. Since
he would arrive a little ahead of the president, Tobias Lear informed him that “being at home before [Washington’s] arrival, he will have it in his power to see his
friends.”37 When somebody in the presidential household evidently tipped off Hercules to the true reason for his return, he was outraged, but not for the obvious
reason. As Lear wrote privately to Washington, Hercules “was mortiﬁed to the last
degree to think that a suspicion could be entertained of his ﬁdelity or attachment
to you. And so much did the poor fellow’s feelings appear to be touched that it left
no doubt of his sincerity.”38 As we shall see, Hercules was an extremely shrewd man
who knew how to feign loyalty and play his master to perfection. To reafﬁrm her
faith in Hercules, Martha Washington told him that he could stay in Philadelphia
past the six-month expiration point before returning to Virginia. Hercules took her
up on the offer, stayed past the deadline, then dutifully returned to Mount Vernon.
Perhaps to make the return more tolerable, Tobias Lear bought Hercules two new
shirts for the trip.
All this collusion occurred against a backdrop of unusual turmoil on the slavery
issue. Even as Washington and Lear conspired to keep slaves in bondage, Lafayette
rose in the National Assembly and demanded the extension of full civil rights to
free blacks in the French colonies. In August 1791, inspired by the French Revolution, slaves in the French colony of St. Domingue (later Haiti) began a bloody
rebellion that raged for a dozen years. Many slave owners ﬂed to American seaboard cities, where they stoked dread among American masters that their slaves,
too, would stage a bloody insurrection. In 1792 the House of Commons in London
enacted its ﬁrst ban on the slave trade, further fueling fears among slave owners that
abolitionism might spread.
Faced with such ferment, Washington struggled to ﬁnd a stand on slavery that
reconciled his economic interests with his private principles. As president, he insisted that the British compensate Americans for slaves spirited away during the
Revolution. Politically, his weakest backing lay in the southern states, which were
alarmed by Hamilton’s ﬁnancial system, and this disaffection made it difﬁcult, if
not impossible, for him to take a courageous public stand against slavery. All the
while he remained the symbol of American liberty, so that abolitionists yearned to
claim his aegis for their cause. One antislavery society was named “The Washington
Society for the Relief of Free Negroes, and Others, Unlawfully Held in Bondage.”39
The same George and Martha Washington who circumvented the Pennsylvania law
also donated money in May 1792 to a slave who approached them with a list of
“respectable” people assisting him to obtain his freedom.40 The same George Washington reacted with dismay when the South Carolina legislature refused to renew
a two-year ban, enacted in 1791, on importing slaves. The president, of course, had

640

r! The Pr esident

been pleased two years earlier when Congress buried the Quaker proposal for banning the slave trade.
Washington’s moral confusion over slavery was also apparent in his directives
to stewards at Mount Vernon. Despite the enormous demands of the presidency, he
continued to exercise close scrutiny of his overseers through elaborate weekly letters. Even as his mind was consumed with affairs of state, he forgot nothing about
Mount Vernon. After an unusually large number of slaves died during the winter of 1790–91, possibly from inﬂuenza, Washington wrote fervently to his estate
manager, Anthony Whitting, about the timely care of sick slaves. Saying the subject
was “foremost in my thoughts,” he instructed Whitting to “be particularly attentive to my Negroes in their sickness and to order every overseer positively to be so
likewise.”41 Washington saw himself as a benevolent master who deplored cruelties practiced elsewhere. To Arthur Young, he made the revealing (if questionable)
point that farmers who had only two or three slaves lived not much differently
from their slaves. He went on to say that “far otherwise is the case with those who
are owned in great numbers by the wealthy, who are not always as kind . . . as they
ought to be.”42
Still, Washington remained a tough master. Slavery depended on exerting a sizable degree of terror to cow slaves into submission. Before the war Washington had
shipped two difﬁcult slaves to the West Indies, where life expectancy was short in
the tropical climate. In March 1793, when Whitting told Washington about a refractory slave named Ben, Washington replied that, if he persisted in his misbehavior,
Whitting should warn Ben that “I will ship him off as I did Waggoner Jack for
the West Indies, where he will have no opportunity to play such pranks.”43 While
Washington ordinarily did not allow slaves to be whipped, he sometimes condoned
it if all else failed. Such was the case in January 1793 with a slave named Charlotte,
whom Martha had found “indolent” and “idle.”44 “Your treatment of Charlotte was
very proper,” Washington advised Whitting, “and if she, or any other of the servants, will not do their duty by fair means or are impertinent, correction (as the
only alternative) must be administered.”45 It is unnerving to ﬁnd the president of
the United States writing such cold-blooded sentences.
In the army, in his cabinet, and on his plantation, Washington demanded high
performance and had little patience with sluggards and loafers. But in the army and
the presidency, Washington fought in a noble cause, whereas that same diligence
was repugnant when applied to the loathsome system of slavery. The president
never lightened up on his tough demands. “Keep everyone in their places and to
their duty,” he lectured Whitting, warning that slaves tended to slack off and test
overseers “to see how far they durst go.”46 If slaves were crippled, he still demanded
their participation. Of his slave Doll, who was apparently lame, he told Whitting

Capital Matters r! 64 1

that she “must be taught to knit and made to do a sufﬁcient day’s work of it. Otherwise, (if suffered to be idle) many more will walk in her steps. Lame Peter, if nobody
else will, must teach her and she must be brought to the house for that purpose.”47
When Billy Lee returned to Mount Vernon, Washington assigned him to be the
overseer of the house slaves. At the same time he made clear to Whitting that those
slaves must “be kept steadily to work at that place under Will, or some other, if he
cannot keep them to their business.”48 When two slaves died, Washington tossed
off this heartless remark: “The death of Paris is a loss, that of Jupiter the reverse.”49
And when grooming a young slave named Cyrus as a house servant, Washington
directed his estate manager to take “a strong horn comb and direct [Cyrus] to keep
his head well combed that the hair or wool may grow long.”50
Washington felt beleaguered by his slaves, who never delivered the crisp efﬁciency he expected. During his presidency he ordered a time-and-motion study of
the productivity of Mount Vernon’s female slaves while they sewed. Not surprisingly, he found that the slaves produced nine shirts weekly when Martha was there
but only six when she was gone. Only a measure of coercion could force slaves to
produce anything efﬁciently, since they had no economic incentive to do so. “There
are few Negroes who will work unless there be a constant eye on them,” Washington
warned one overseer, and he believed that he could never slacken pressure if the
slaves were to produce a decent return on his investment.51 Unable to curb rampant thievery at Mount Vernon, Washington was convinced that slaves were stealing
him blind. He continued to chastise overseers for “frolicking at the expense of my
business,” when they should have spent more time “watching the barns, visiting
the negro quarters at unexpected hours, waylaying the roads, or contriving some
device by which the receivers of stolen goods might be entrapped.”52 At the same
time, Washington ordered his overseers to feed the slaves well, since he didn’t wish
to “lie under the imputation of starving my negroes and thereby driving them to
the necessity of thieving to supply the deﬁciency.”53 George Washington desperately
wanted to think well of himself and believed he was merciful toward the slaves
even as the inherent cruelty of the system repeatedly forced him into behavior that
questioned that belief.

ch ap ter fif t y-thr ee

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Southern Exposure

Not t h e l e ast of Wa sh i ngton’s t rou bl e s in relocating to Philadelphia
was that he left behind in New York a consequential ﬁgure in his life, his dentist John
Greenwood, who had replaced his earlier friend and dentist, Jean-Pierre Le Mayeur.
By the time he was sworn in as president, Washington was down to a single tooth, a
lonely lower left bicuspid, which bore the entire brunt of a complete set of dentures.
These large, ungainly contraptions forced Washington’s lower lip to thrust so far forward that George Washington Parke Custis called it his outstanding facial feature in
the 1790s. Tooth decay was, of course, a universal malady in the eighteenth century.
Even Martha Washington, who had once boasted a beautiful set of teeth, had dentures
by her husband’s second term, if not before, and constantly badgered her grandchildren to use toothbrushes and cleansing powders. George’s problems, however, were
so severe to as to be incapacitating and affected his life in numberless ways.
A miniature portrait of John Greenwood shows an elegantly clad man in a scarlet velvet coat and white jabot, his graying hair combed straight back from a broad
forehead. Having fought in the Revolutionary War and studied dentistry with Paul
Revere, he had an excellent patriotic pedigree and crafted several sets of dentures
for President Washington. The dentures that Greenwood fashioned during Washington’s ﬁrst year as president used natural teeth, inserted into a framework of hippopotamus ivory and anchored on Washington’s one surviving tooth. Some dental
historians have argued that these dentures were forged from walrus or elephant
ivory; the one thing they were not made from is the wood so powerfully entrenched
in popular mythology. That historical error arose from the gradual staining of hairline fractures in the ivory that made it resemble a wood grain. Curved gold springs

Southern Exposure r! 643

in the back of the mouth attached the upper and lower dentures. As mentioned
earlier, these springs made public speaking a nightmare, especially when Washington was enunciating sibilant sounds. The dentures also limited him to a diet of soft
foods, chewed carefully with the front teeth, and would certainly have limited his
outbursts of unrestrained laughter at the dinner table.
With their wiring, pins, and rough edges, such dentures rubbed painfully
against the gums, forcing dentists to prescribe soothing ointments or opiate-based
powders to alleviate discomfort. With or without the dentures, Washington had to
endure constant misery. He spent Sunday, January 17, 1790, at home in excruciating
tooth pain, writing in his diary the next day, “Still indisposed with an aching tooth
and swelled and inﬂamed gum.”1 Later in the year Tobias Lear bought laudanum
for Washington’s household account, which was likely used to relieve the tortured
presidential mouth. Washington could also have derived opiates from poppies
grown at Mount Vernon.
One of Greenwood’s attractions for Washington must have been his steadfast
discretion, for Washington demanded absolute secrecy and could not afford a blabbermouth dentist. After he moved to Philadelphia, he and Greenwood swapped
letters in cloak-and-dagger style; Washington entrusted dental letters to secret intermediaries, afraid to commit them to the mails. Writing to Greenwood in February 1791 about some needed adjustments of his dentures, Washington maintained
the tone of hugger-mugger. “Your letter of the 6th and the box which accompanied
it came safe to hand,” he wrote enigmatically. “The contents of the latter were perfectly agreeable to me and will . . . answer the end proposed very well.”2 Greenwood
confessed to Washington that there were limits to what he could accomplish via
long distance, noting that “it is difﬁcult to do these things without being on the
spot,” and he promised to travel to Philadelphia to make needed alterations.3
During his two terms Washington chomped his way through several pairs of
dentures, and his letters to Greenwood explain why they so often wore out. Bars
holding the teeth together were either too wide on the side or too long in the front,
leading Washington to complain that they “bulge my lips out in such a manner as to
make them appear considerably swelled.”4 To relieve this discomfort, he often ﬁled
down the dentures but ended up loosening the teeth in the process. So embarrassed
was he by the way the dentures distorted his facial appearance that he pleaded with
Greenwood to refrain from anything that “will in the least degree force the lips
out more than [they] now do, as it does this too much already.”5 In the portrait of
Washington done by Christian Güllager in 1789, Washington’s lower lip juts out
rather grotesquely. Apparently the president undertook some amateur dentistry of
his own, telling Greenwood to send a foot of spiral spring and two feet of gold wire
that he could shape himself.

64 4

r! The Pr esident

Washington must have been very fond of Greenwood, for when his last tooth
was pulled in 1796, he allowed Greenwood to retain this valuable souvenir, which
the dentist inserted into a little glass locket on his watch fob. Without this tooth to
serve as an anchor, keeping new dentures in place became an ordeal. Washington
never overcame his dental tribulations and as late as December 1798 still protested
that his new set “shoots beyond the gums” and “forces the lip out just under the
nose.”6 Usually tightﬁsted, he gave Greenwood carte blanche to spend whatever it
took to solve the problem. “I am willing and ready to pay whatever you may charge
me,” he wrote in some despair.7
If Washington was self-conscious about smiling in later years, it may also have
been because his dentures grew discolored. When he sent Greenwood a pair of dentures for repair in December 1798, the dentist noted that they had turned “very
black,” either because Washington had soaked them in port wine or because he
drank too much of it. Greenwood gave Washington a terse lesson in denture care:
“I advise you to either take them out after dinner and put them in clean water and
put in another set or clean them with a brush and some chalk scraped ﬁne.”8 For
someone who took inordinate pride in his appearance, the highly visible dentures
must have been mortifying, especially since public speaking and socializing were
constant, obligatory duties for a president.

At t h e t i m e Philadelphia became the temporary capital, it ranked, with 45,000
inhabitants, as America’s largest city, overshadowing New York and Boston in size
and sophistication. Its spacious brick abodes and broad thoroughfares, illumined
by streetlamps at night, gave the city an orderly air, matched by a rich cultural life
of theaters and newspapers. Among its intellectual ornaments were the American
Philosophical Society and the Library Company, both founded under the aegis of
Ben Franklin. Having proﬁted from wartime trade, the town’s wealthy merchants
set the social tone—one French visitor said, “The rich alone take precedence over
the common people”—and much of its political life centered on their brilliant affairs.9 The social demands placed on George and Martha Washington grew apace as
rounds of extravagant parties enlivened the new capital. One resident stood amazed
at the sheer number of sumptuous gatherings. “You have never seen anything like
the frenzy which has seized upon the inhabitants here,” he informed a friend. “They
have been half mad ever since the city became the seat of government.”10 Notwithstanding the city’s Quaker heritage, its social life was quite racy and luxurious, with
heavy gambling at many parties. The straitlaced Abigail Adams was scandalized by
the daringly low-cut dresses exhibited by women at soirées: “The style of dress . . .
is really an outrage upon all decency . . . Most [ladies] wear their clothes scant upon

Southern Exposure r! 645

the body and too full upon the bosom for my fancy.”11 Even French émigré aristocrats were struck by all the ﬁnery, one marveling that the “women of Philadelphia
wore hats and caps almost as varied as those of Paris and bestowed immense expense in dressing their heads.”12
Martha Washington felt emancipated by Philadelphia’s freer ways. In New York
she had been inhibited by protocol, whereas in the new capital she was emboldened
to pay visits on friends. She kept up her Friday-evening receptions, which came to
be ridiculed as the Republican Court, even though Martha, the most unaffected of
ﬁrst ladies, frequently prepared tea and coffee for visitors herself. Of one crowded
Friday reception, Abigail Adams wrote, “The room became full before I left it, and
the circle very brilliant,” and she commented on the “constellation of beauties”
present.13 She judged the president more unbuttoned in this new environment. “On
Thursday last, I dined with the president in company with the ministers and ladies
of the court,” she reported to her daughter. “He was more than usually social . . . He
asked affectionately after you and the children and at table picked the sugarplums
from a cake and requested me to take them for Master John.”14
Washington regained the vigor lost during his two illnesses and strode about
town with Tobias Lear and William Jackson tagging behind him. He often presented
a romantic image; the corner of his blue cape was ﬂung back over his shoulder to
reveal a scarlet lining, giving him the gallant bearing of a stage character. One Philadelphian remembered watching the Washingtons emerge from their High Street
doorway and enter their majestic coach, hitched to a team of six bay horses. When
the mansion door opened, Washington stepped out “in a suit of dark silk velvet of
the old cut, silver or steel hilted small sword at left side, hair full powdered, black
silk hose and bag, accompanied by Lady Washington, also in full dress, [who] appeared standing upon the marble steps—presenting her his hand, he led her down
to the coach with that ease and grace peculiar to him in everything and . . . with the
attentive assiduity of an ardent, youthful lover.”15
For all the loose talk of a Republican Court, those who had actually haunted the
royal courts of Europe were utterly disarmed by the quaint simplicity of the executive residence. When the French writer Chateaubriand stopped in Philadelphia, he
was startled by the absence of pretension, and his description is a salutary corrective
to contemporary critics who saw Washington as aping European royalty:
A small house, just like the adjacent houses, was the palace of the President of the
United States; no guard, not even a footman. I knocked; a young maid servant
opened the door. I asked her whether the general was at home; she answered that he
was. I added that I had a letter for him. The girl asked for my name; it is not an easy
one to pronounce in English and she could not repeat it. She then said gently: “Walk

646

r! The Pr esident
in, Sir. Entrez, Monsieur,” and she walked ahead of me through one of these narrow
passageways which form the vestibule of English houses. Finally she showed me into
a parlor and bade me wait for the general.16

One wonders whether Chateaubriand also noticed that a hairdressing shop stood
next door to the presidential “palace.”
The president hobnobbed with the city’s commercial elite, especially the two
wealthy couples he had befriended during earlier stays in Philadelphia: William and
Anne Willing Bingham and Samuel and Elizabeth Willing Powel. Washington was
chivalrous with both wives. When he sent Anne Bingham a watercolor version of
the portrait of him by the Marquise de Bréhan, he appended this stylish note: “In
presenting the enclosed (with compliments to Mrs. Bingham), the President fulﬁlls
a promise. Not for the representation—not for the value—but as the production of a
fair hand, the offering is made and the acceptan[ce] of it requested.”17 With Elizabeth
Powel, Washington continued to permit himself social liberties that he took with no
other woman. In an age when subtle social signals counted a great deal, Washington
boldly signed his letters to her, “With the greatest respect and affection”—extremely
unusual for Washington.18 She, in turn, addressed her letters to “My dear Sir” and
signed them, “Your sincere affectionate friend.”19 We know from Washington’s letters
that he met with Elizabeth Powel many times but often failed to note their meetings
in his diaries. At the very least he was beguiled by this social and political conﬁdante.
On the other hand, Powel was also a good friend of Martha, and George consulted
her before buying gifts for his wife. In a sign that the Washingtons were slightly awed
by this rich bluestocking, George would draft letters for Martha to send to Eliza
Powel, and Martha would then rewrite them in her own hand.
On Sundays the president attended church and afterward was enveloped by
throngs of admirers. One observer recalled him leaving Old Christ Church, wrapped
in his blue cloak, with organ music bellowing behind him. Instead of touching
people, he nodded to the hushed crowd that instinctively parted before him, so that
there was something vaguely ecclesiastical about his presence: “His noble height
and commanding air . . . his patient demeanor in the crowd . . . his gentle bendings of the neck, to the right and to the left, parentally, and expressive of delighted
feelings on his part; these, with the appearance of the awed and charmed and silent
crowd of spectators, gently falling back on each side, as he approached, unequivocally announced to the gazing stranger . . . behold the man!”20
Even as president, Washington’s interests were wider, his curiosity more farranging, than is commonly supposed. Conﬁdent in his own taste, he personally
selected the paintings that adorned the presidential mansion—“fancy pieces of my
own choosing,” he called them.21 He had an occasional sense of fun that belied his

Southern Exposure r! 647

grave air. In April 1793 he led a party of eight to see the ﬁrst American circus, staged
by an English equestrian acrobat, John Bill Ricketts, who had set up a Philadelphia
riding school. And he remained a keen theatergoer, absorbing a steady diet of history plays, farces, and satires. He patronized the South Street Theater so frequently
that he had his own private box, complete with cushioned seats and plush red drapery. With a soldier stationed at each stage door and four distributed in the gallery,
Washington probably enjoyed better security than did Lincoln the night of his assassination at Ford’s Theater.
However bowed down by presidential tasks, Washington always found time for
family and for the many waifs and wards who sheltered under his roof. Harriot
Washington, the daughter of his deceased brother Samuel, had lived at Mount Vernon since 1785. A wayward girl, slovenly and lazy, she clashed with Fanny Bassett
Washington. Nonetheless, Washington still hoped to make a lady out of Harriot
and in the fall of 1790 tried to install her at a proper boarding school in Philadelphia. Harriot stayed at Mount Vernon until 1792, when she moved to Fredericksburg and lived with Washington’s sister, Betty, before marrying Andrew Parks in
1795. When Harriot committed the faux pas of not consulting Washington about
the marriage, the paterfamilias was miffed. When he belatedly congratulated her,
he hinted that she would have to subdue her headstrong nature and that success in
marriage would depend upon her subordinating her views to her husband’s.
In the fall of 1790 he brought to Philadelphia Harriot’s two unruly brothers,
George Steptoe and Lawrence Augustine, who entered the College of Philadelphia
(afterward the University of Pennsylvania). The status-conscious president wrote
the boys long-winded letters about being clean and presentable and shying away
from bad company—suggesting that his ungovernable nephews did neither. Although he footed the bill for their education, he did not invite them to stay in
the presidential mansion, either from a shortage of space or because the mischievous boys lacked proper decorum. In writing to Betty, he revealed how ﬁnancially
strapped he felt in caring for Samuel’s three children: “I shall continue to do for
[Harriot] what I have already done for seven years past and that is to furnish her
with such reasonable and proper necessaries as she may stand in need of, notwithstanding I have had both her brothers upon my hands, and I have been obliged
to pay several hundred pounds out of my own pocket for their boards, schooling,
clothing etc.”22 Washington’s family muniﬁcence was all the more commendable
in view of his ﬁnancial difﬁculties. The two brothers must have matured in Philadelphia and outgrown their youthful indiscretions, for Washington later rewarded
them handsomely in his will.
·

·

·

64 8

r! The Pr esident

O n D e c e m be r 1 4 , 179 0 , Alexander Hamilton issued another electrifying state
paper, this time on the need to charter the ﬁrst central bank in American history.
Capitalized at $10 million, the Bank of the United States would blend public and
private ownership; the government would take a 20 percent stake and private investors the remaining 80 percent. This versatile institution would lend money to
the government, issue notes that could serve as a national currency, and act as a
repository for tax payments. The bank was patterned after the Bank of England—
Hamilton kept its charter on his desk as he wrote—and coming on the heels of his
report on public credit and excise taxes, it unsettled opponents with the insidious
specter of a British-style executive branch.
Five weeks later the bank bill passed the Senate with deceptive ease, prompting
Madison to marshal stiff opposition in the House. Once again the southern states
feared that Hamilton’s system would consolidate northern ﬁnancial hegemony over
agrarian southern interests. Madison responded boldly to the views of his dismayed
constituents. Where he had articulated a broad view of federal power as coauthor
of The Federalist, he now balked at what he deemed a dangerous extension of that
power. In the Constitution he could ﬁnd no speciﬁc license for a central bank—in
his evocative phrase, the bank bill “was condemned by the silence of the Constitution.”23 In deﬁance of his determined efforts, the bill passed the House on February 8 by a margin of 39 to 20. In an omen of future strife, the vote again divided
sharply along geographic lines: the northern states were almost solidly for the bank,
and the southern states were largely lined up against it. To skittish southerners, the
treasury secretary seemed triumphant and unstoppable in his quest for centralized
power, rolling out programs in rapid succession, each one meshing with the next in
a seamless system of interlocking parts.
Madison urged Washington, who was still undecided on the measure, to snuff
out the bank with a veto. Washington’s slow, deliberate handling of this matter
proved a model of the way he resolved complex disputes. First he impartially canvassed his cabinet ofﬁcers to assemble the widest spectrum of opinion, making sure
that, whatever he did, he could answer all critics. He kept his cabinet in suspense,
forcing them to vie for his approval through the strength of their arguments. At
the same time, one senses that he already tilted toward signing the bill, for he subtly stacked the deck in favor of approval by ﬁrst asking Edmund Randolph and
Thomas Jefferson for their views, which he then relayed to Hamilton. This gave
Hamilton an edge, since he could see his predecessors’ objections and register the
last word on the subject.
Attorney General Randolph submitted an unimpressive memorandum that
branded the bank as unconstitutional. Succinct but more trenchant was Jefferson’s
brief memorandum arguing for “strict construction” of the Constitution. For Jef-

Southern Exposure r! 649

ferson, state-sponsored monopolies and central banks were oppressive tools of
executive power associated with British royalty. He scorned Hamilton’s bank as
the symbol of a Yankee world of commerce that would subvert his fond vision of
America as a rural Eden. In the last analysis, the debate hinged on the interpretation of three words in Article I, Section 8, of the Constitution—that Congress had
all powers “necessary and proper” to carry into law its enumerated responsibilities.
Taking a cramped view of this clause, Jefferson contended that it limited Congress
to legislation that was strictly necessary to its assigned duties, not merely convenient
or useful. Though not queried for an opinion, John Adams was also steaming about
the bank. “This system of banks begotten, hatched, and brooded by . . . Hamilton
and Washington, I have always considered as a system of national injustice,” he
spluttered years later, calling it a “sacriﬁce of public and private interest to a few
aristocratical friends and favorites.”24
Though he had sat through every session of the Constitutional Convention,
Washington did not pretend to any expertise in constitutional nuances—he once
wrote that he had “had as little to do with lawyers as any man of my age”—and
engaged in much hand-wringing over the bank bill.25 He would be forced to issue a
black-and-white opinion that would alienate some, gratify others, and irrevocably
shape the future government. He called in Madison, supremely well versed in the
Constitution, for a series of quiet, conﬁdential talks. “The constitutionality of the
national bank was a question on which his mind was greatly perplexed,” Madison
would recall, noting that Washington was already biased in favor of a national bank
and “a liberal construction of the national powers.”26 On the other hand, Washington was shaken by the uncompromising verdicts from Randolph and Jefferson and
asked Madison, as a precaution, to draft a veto message for the bank bill.
When Washington turned to Hamilton, he made plain that, unless he could
vanquish the arguments of Randolph and Jefferson, he planned to veto the bank
bill, telling him that he wished to “be fully possessed of the arguments for and
against the measure before I express any opinion of my own.”27 By this point Washington knew the vigor of Hamilton’s mind and his extraordinary knack for legal
argument. In little more than a week, Hamilton, in a superhuman burst of energy,
produced more than thirteen thousand words that buried his opponents beneath
an avalanche of arguments. His exegesis of the “necessary and proper” clause not
only made way for a central bank but would enable the federal government to
respond to emergencies throughout American history. Hamilton interpreted the
“necessary and proper” clause to mean that “every power vested in a government is
in its nature sovereign and includes, by force of the term, a right to employ all the
means requisite and fairly applicable to the ends of such power.”28 In other words,
the Constitution gave the federal government not only the powers explicitly enu-

650

r! The Pr esident

merated but also a series of unstated or “implied powers” indispensable to attain
those ends.
Washington had ten days to sign or veto the bank bill and stalled in making up
his mind. Perhaps by design, Hamilton delivered, and Washington accepted, the
argument in favor of the bill right before that deadline expired, leaving no time
for an appeal inside the cabinet. When Washington signed the bill on February 25,
1791, it was a courageous act, for he deﬁed the legal acumen of Madison, Jefferson,
and Randolph. Unlike his fellow planters, who tended to regard banks and stock
exchanges as sinister devices, Washington grasped the need for these instruments
of modern ﬁnance. It was also a decisive moment legally for Washington, who had
felt more bound than Hamilton by the literal words of the Constitution. With this
stroke, he endorsed an expansive view of the presidency and made the Constitution
a living, open-ended document. The importance of his decision is hard to overstate, for had Washington rigidly adhered to the letter of the Constitution, the federal government might have been stillborn. Chief Justice John Marshall later seized
upon the doctrine of “implied powers” and incorporated it into seminal Supreme
Court cases that upheld the power of the federal government.
In approving the bank bill, Washington again championed Hamilton as an
agent of modernity, a man who represented the thriving commerce of the seaport
cities rather than the Virginia gentry from which he himself had emerged. Washington agreed with Hamilton’s defense of the bank, not simply from its superlative
reasoning but because the two men subscribed to a common view of economic nationalism. Contrary to his critics, who thought him a credulous tool of Hamilton,
Washington was a proud and knowing sponsor of the Hamiltonian program.29 That
July he insisted to David Humphreys, “Our public credit stands on that ground
which, three years ago, it would have been considered as a species of madness to
have foretold.”30

Th e u proa r ov e r t h e H a m i lt on i a n s ys t e m made it all the more imperative that Washington undertake a tour of the southern states, much as he had
done with New England. At the time when the Quaker petitions to abolish the
slave trade had awakened southern fears of northern interference, David Stuart
had warned Washington, “It is represented that the northern phalanx is so ﬁrmly
united as to bear down all opposition, while Virginia is unsupported.”31 The region
also feared that the northeastern states would pay less heed to frontier communities, which were mostly peopled with settlers from the southern states. Faced with
reported discontent, Washington wanted to see for himself whether the South was
really so disenchanted with his programs. Also, as the country grew—by the spring

Southern Exposure r! 65 1

of 1792, Congress had approved the admission of Kentucky and Vermont as new
states—Washington wanted to maintain a sense of national cohesion amid pellmell expansion.
The southern tour was a hugely ambitious adventure. Washington would once
again have to hazard nonstop socializing. As Tobias Lear noted, he found these
occasions “fatiguing and often times painful,” sticking him with a dreadful conﬂict. “He wishes not to exclude himself from the sight or conversation of his fellow
citizens, but their eagerness to show their affection frequently imposes a heavy tax
upon him.”32 The projected itinerary of 1,816 miles was an enormous distance to
traverse by horse and carriage. At a time of poor roads, Washington would have to
withstand dust, mud, and assorted indignities. And in an era of primitive communications, he would be absent from Philadelphia for three months, making it hard
to settle major policy disputes. Washington had never gone farther south than the
northern part of North Carolina, and the Carolina and Georgia roads were terra incognita. Leaving nothing to chance, he consulted southern congressmen and even
a Supreme Court justice about precise distances en route, which he referred to as
his “line of march.”33 The whole trip was plotted out like a military campaign, with
each day mapped out in advance, complete with arrival and departure times and
the name of each inn.
On March 20, 1791, Washington departed from Philadelphia in his carriage with
a train of servants. A big, rough-hewn Hessian named John Fagan drove the coach,
with James Hurley as the postilion. Major William Jackson, presidential porter
John Mauld, and valet William Osborne trotted alongside on horseback. Washington’s slave Giles drove the baggage wagon with two horses, while his other slave in
the rear, Paris, rode the white parade horse, Prescott, that Washington would ride
into towns. In a playful touch, Washington included his greyhound, which he had
named Cornwallis. In New York and Philadelphia, Giles and Paris had served as
coachman and postilion, and their demotion to the back of the presidential procession may have been designed to placate southern sensibilities. It may also have
reﬂected Washington’s displeasure with the two men. By the end of the tour, Washington would drop Paris from his presidential household, describing him as “lazy,
self-willed, and impudent,” while Giles developed an injury that made it impossible
for him to ride a horse.34
Washington’s diaries for the early stages of his southern trip sometimes read like
a disaster chronicle. The succession of horrors started with the sail down Severn
River in Maryland. Washington had borrowed a large boat manned by an incompetent crew, and in the course of a dark, stormy night, with “constant lightning
and tremendous thunder,” the boat ran aground twice. The befuddled crew had no
notion where they were. All the while the president lay curled up in a bunk below-

652

r! The Pr esident

decks, so cramped he could not fully stretch out. The nightmare ended with the
boat’s arrival at Annapolis, where Washington was installed in the familiar comfort
of George Mann’s Tavern.
At this point Washington paused for an important piece of public business: he
ofﬁciated at a meeting of property owners in Georgetown and Carrollsburg who
were competing to have government buildings for the new federal district erected
on their land. In a pleasant surprise to the two warring groups, Washington informed them that the ten-mile-square district would encompass land in both their
domains. In his usual tactful style, he urged the landowner groups to cooperate
rather than compete and also pored over a survey of the new federal district prepared by Andrew Ellicott, as well as preliminary plans drawn up by Pierre-Charles
L’Enfant, the French engineer tapped to design the federal city.
Washington gave himself a week’s respite at Mount Vernon and made the daily
rounds of his ﬁve farms for the ﬁrst time since the previous fall. On April 7, with the
horses “well refreshed and in good spirits,” his entourage resumed the journey, and
as they boarded the Colchester ferry, Washington hoped things would go smoothly.
During this crossing he decided to keep the four horses harnessed to his coach. But
one horse got skittish and dashed off the side of the boat, pulling the other startled
horses with it. Fortunately the boat had drifted close enough to shallow water that
the horses could be saved and the coach prevented from plunging in.
As the presidential cavalcade approached Fredericksburg on April 8, the townsfolk were taken aback to see Washington—he had concealed his arrival to avoid any
fuss. One paper noted that the citizens, “not being apprised of his approach, were
disappointed in the opportunity of evincing their respect . . . by meeting him previous to his arrival.”35 After a festive welcome in Richmond, Washington proceeded
to Petersburg, where several thousand people greeted him and threw up clouds of
dust that irritated his throat. To avoid a repetition of this problem, Washington let
it be known that he would leave town at eight the next morning, “but I did it a little
after ﬁve,” he confessed in his diary, perhaps with a guilty thrill, “by which means I
avoided the inconveniences” of the dust.36
When he spent the night at Emporia, Virginia, in Greensville County, the rain
had settled the dust hanging in the air. The next morning the rain resumed, but the
president decided he would rather brave the elements than the admiring crowds:
“Although raining moderately . . . I continued my journey, induced to it by the
crowds which were coming into a general muster at the Courthouse of Greensville,
who would, I presumed, soon have made the [house] I was in too noisy to be agreeable.”37 When the dust-choked roads turned muddy, Washington wrote that “my
passage was through water.”38
As the presidential cavalcade rattled along bumpy roads down the eastern sea-

Southern Exposure r! 653

board, the slapstick comedy persisted. In Craven County, North Carolina, Washington stayed with a Colonel John Allen in the belief that his house was a roadside
tavern. When the error was discovered, Washington concluded that “it was too late
to rectify the mistake.”39 He then pushed on to New Bern, where the townsfolk
threw him a public dinner, and he resumed his favorite pastime of counting the
female attendees. These visits were elaborately prepared; the local citizenry presented welcoming addresses to Washington, who delivered replies composed by
Major Jackson. Benjamin Franklin’s grandson, Benjamin Franklin Bache, blasted
this innocuous protocol in his Philadelphia newspaper, ﬁnding incriminating evidence of royalist tendencies: “We ﬁnd by the southern papers that the president on
his journey is still perfumed with the incense of addresses. However highly we may
consider the character of the chief magistrate of the union, yet we cannot but think
the fashionable mode of expressing our attachment to the defender of the liberty of
his country favors too much of monarchy to be used by republicans.”40
Bache would have been appalled by the acclaim Washington received in Wilmington, North Carolina, where he mounted his white horse and threaded his way
through town amid a fanfare of trumpets and “an astonishing concourse of people.”
Ladies waved to him from windows and balconies, while ships in the harbor ran up
streaming colors. He counted sixty-two ladies at the Wilmington ball; one newspaper observed that the president “appeared to be equally surprised and delighted
at the very large and brilliant assembly of ladies whom admiration and respect for
him had collected together.”41 In Georgetown, South Carolina, ﬁfty ladies hosted
him at a tea party. Here and elsewhere on his tour, Washington made a point of
addressing local Freemasons, telling General Mordecai Gist, the grand master in
South Carolina, “Your sentiments on the establishment and exercise of our equal
government are worthy of an association whose principles lead to purity of morals and are beneﬁcial of action . . . I shall be happy on every occasion to evince my
regard for the fraternity.”42
Perhaps the most elegant reception Washington received came in Charleston,
where twelve formally dressed ship captains, manning a barge with twelve oars, ferried him into town. About forty boats brimming with gentlemen and ladies bobbed
around him, while others freighted with musicians sailed alongside to serenade
him. One ﬂoating chorus sang, “He comes! he comes! The hero comes. / Sound,
sound your trumpets, beat your drums.”43 As Washington walked the streets, he
submitted to hero worship such as no other American president has perhaps ever
experienced. One observer said the crowds “look up to him as the savior of the
country, all respect him as the founder of our states and cherish him as a father who
would come to see for himself if his children are happy.”44 In the afternoon he was
visited by “a great number of the most respectable ladies of Charleston,” but they

65 4

r! The Pr esident

paled beside the female contingent that evening.45 In his diary, Washington wrote
that he had gone “to a concert at the exchange at w[hi]ch there were at least 400
lad[ie]s—the number and appearances of w[hi]ch exceeded anything of the kind
I had ever seen.”46 To further his delight, the women wore bandeaux upon which
his image had been sketched or that were stamped with the words “Long life to the
President” or “Welcome to the hero” in golden letters.47
The southern tour turned into a marathon as the cavalcade crossed the Georgia
pine barrens. The “abominably sandy and heavy” roads wore down the horses, including Prescott.48 The journey was a heroic labor for Washington, who had to deal
with the hazards of the road coupled with the tiring social demands. From Georgia,
he wrote to Tobias Lear that he was so busy in each town that it “scarcely allowed
me a moment I could call my own.”49 He pushed on to Augusta, where the local
newspaper stated that the presidential ball was attended by “the largest number of
ladies ever collected at this place.”50 The presidential connoisseur estimated the female turnout at between “60 and 70 well dressed ladies.”51 While there, Washington
also engaged in more serious business, meeting with Governor Edward Telfair and
handing him dispatches for the Spanish governor of East Florida, warning him to
stop providing a safe haven for runaway American slaves.
In late May Washington began the journey northward and used the opportunity
to tour scenes from the Revolutionary War that he had watched from afar, including Camden and Guilford Court House. He exhibited mounting irritation with
the attention bestowed on him—only between towns did he have some modicum
of privacy. To his annoyance, the North Carolina governor sent an escort for him.
“On my approach to this place [Guilford],” he wrote, “I was met by a party of light
horse, which I prevailed on the governor to dismiss and to countermand his orders
for others to attend me through the state.”52
In undertaking this lengthy trip, Washington had wanted to learn the state of
public opinion directly rather than by hearsay. Most of all, he hoped to ascertain
whether the South was as discontented as legend claimed. In his diary, he professed
pleasure with what he saw, convinced that the people “appeared to be happy, contented and satisﬁed with the gen[era]l government under which they were placed.
Where the case was otherwise, it was not difﬁcult to trace the cause to some demagogue or speculating character.”53 Contrary to reports that the South would resist
the whiskey tax, Washington found general approval for it. In writing to Catharine
Macaulay Graham, he cited the “prosperity and tranquillity under the new government” and added that “while you in Europe are troubled with war and rumors of
war, everyone here may sit under his own vine and none to molest or make him
afraid.”54 Clearly Washington’s picture of the southern mood was overly rosy; perhaps local politicians didn’t care to deliver upsetting news to a heroic president

Southern Exposure r! 655

on a jubilant tour. Within a year the country would be hopelessly divided over
Washington’s policies, and the primary locus of discontent would be centered in
the southern states.
On June 11 the presidential caravan arrived at Mount Vernon, giving Washington two weeks of rest before he returned to Philadelphia. After a rocky start, the
tour had unfolded with miraculous precision, and Washington was relieved that
it had proceeded without “any interruption by sickness, bad weather, or any untoward accident.”55 In a major logistical feat, he had arrived at each town on the
exact date set on his itinerary. The three-month trip had also been a tonic to his
health. Escaping from his ofﬁce and ﬁlling his lungs with fresh air, he had put on
weight and wiped away the gaunt look of the previous year. Not only had his health
improved, but he told one correspondent that “my happiness has certainly been
promoted by the excursion.”56 The trip ended in a ﬁtting spirit on July 6, when he
rode into Philadelphia to the sound of cannon and the ringing of church bells and
set eyes on Martha for the ﬁrst time in nearly four months.
No sooner had Washington returned than a tumor reappeared on his thigh,
in exactly the spot as the one excised in June 1789. It threw the government into
a state of general gloom. “The president is indisposed with the same blind tumor,
and in the same place, which he had the year before last in New York,” Jefferson
alerted Madison. Although it seemed not as bad as the earlier tumor, Jefferson said
that Washington was “obliged to lie constantly on his side and has at times a little
fever.”57 The protuberance was lanced, and pus and other matter cleaned out, and
within a month Washington declared that he was fully recovered. Still, this was the
third time that he had been leveled by an ailment as president, and it must have
made him wonder about the wisdom of continuing in ofﬁce.

ch ap ter fif t y-four

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Running into Extremes

E a r ly i n h is a dm i n is t r at ion, George Washington had ﬁgured out that for
foreign policy advice he would have to rely on his cabinet rather than the Senate,
but the cabinet members were no less split in the foreign policy realm than they
were on pressing domestic issues. The most divisive topic was whether the United
States should lean toward France or Great Britain. Even after waging war against
Britain for more than eight years, Washington took a coldly realistic view of the
strategic need for cordial relations with London. The federal government depended
upon customs duties as its principal revenue source and could scarcely afford to
antagonize its major trading partner. After the war, as American trade with England
swiftly rebounded, Washington had observed, “Our trade in all points of view is
as essential to G[reat] B[ritain] as hers is to us.”1 In the postwar period, American
merchants had bristled at the exclusion of their ships from the British West Indies.
Scarcely a raging Anglophile, Washington had a long list of other grievances against
the English—their refusal to make restitution for runaway slaves, their unwillingness to evacuate western posts, their reluctance to send a minister to the United
States—but he never allowed those complaints to stymie his earnest efforts to improve relations with the Crown.
In the autumn of 1789 Washington decided to post the witty Gouverneur Morris to England as an unofﬁcial envoy to iron out problems between the two governments. Jefferson feared that America would import Britain’s monarchical ways
along with its products and strongly favored warmer relations with France, whose
revolution he monitored with enthusiasm. Where Hamilton and Jay supported
Morris’s appointment, Jefferson staunchly opposed it, viewing Morris as a “high-

Running into Extremes r! 657

ﬂying monarchy man” and overly friendly to England.2 He later faulted the funloving Morris for prejudicing Washington’s mind against the French Revolution.
Because Jefferson did not take ofﬁce until March 1790, Hamilton was able to
poach on territory usually reserved for the secretary of state and attempted to
strengthen ties with Great Britain, with whom the United States still lacked formal
diplomatic relations. In October 1789 he conducted a secret meeting with a British
diplomat, Major George Beckwith, assuring him, “I have always preferred a connection with you to that of any other country. We think in English and have a similarity
of prejudices and predilections.”3 Washington likewise believed that the common
laws, language, and customs of America and England made them natural allies, and
he fully concurred with Hamilton’s desire to negotiate a commercial treaty between
the two countries. By the summer of 1790 Morris’s talks in London began to bear
fruit. After a meeting with Beckwith, Hamilton relayed to Washington the startling
news that Sir Guy Carleton, now the governor general of Canada, “had reason to
believe that the Cabinet of Great Britain entertained a disposition not only towards
a friendly intercourse but towards an alliance with the United States.”4 Jefferson
scoffed at such views emanating from an unofﬁcial emissary.
Accepting the need for creative diplomacy, Washington sought to proﬁt from the
back channel established by Hamilton with Beckwith. That summer the specter of
war between England and Spain arose after their military confrontation at Nootka
Sound on Vancouver Island in western Canada. Not ready to choose sides, Washington noted in his diary the instructions he had given Hamilton, saying that “the Secretary of the Treasury was to extract as much as he could from Major Beckwith and
report it to me without committing . . . the Government of the U[nited] States.”5 In
subsequent meetings with Beckwith, Hamilton warned the British diplomat that
while Washington was “perfectly dispassionate” toward a commercial treaty with
England, Secretary of State Jefferson “may possibly frustrate the whole.”6
In September 1791 the overtures made by Hamilton, with Washington’s approval,
resulted in a major breakthrough in Anglo-American relations, as George III named
George Hammond as the ﬁrst British minister to America. When Hammond and
his secretary, Edward Thornton, arrived that autumn, they immediately sensed the
amicable disposition of the treasury secretary and the implacable hostility of the
secretary of state. Writing home, Thornton evoked Jefferson’s “strong hatred” of
the British and his “decided and rancorous malevolence to the British name.”7 Not
surprisingly, Hammond and Thornton gravitated to the pro-British circle clustered
around Hamilton.
America’s fervent attachment to France arose from gratitude for its indispensable help during the Revolutionary War, and no country saluted its revolution
with more fraternal warmth. In a variety of ways, the French Revolution had been

65 8

r! The Pr esident

spawned by its American predecessor, which had bred dreams of liberty among
French aristocrats who fought in the war, then tried to enshrine its principles at
home. The most visible standard-bearer of these hopes was the Marquis de Lafayette, who told Washington from Paris that the “ideas of liberty have been, since the
American Revolution, spreading very fast.”8 As Jefferson stated proudly, the French
had been “awakened by our revolution . . . Our proceedings have been viewed as
a model for them on every occasion.”9 As early as 1780 Washington had predicted
that France, to pay for its American adventure, would face a huge deﬁcit and resort
to ruinous taxes that “the people of France are not in a condition to endure for any
duration.”10 Those taxes and other hardships had provoked immense discontent,
leading King Louis XVI to convene a special advisory assembly called the EstatesGeneral in May 1789, which mingled commoners with the clergy and nobility.
Always a perceptive student of politics, George Washington, from the ﬁrst stirrings of the French Revolution, was astonishingly prophetic about its course. He
regarded Louis XVI as a good-hearted but fallible king who would make a clumsy,
self-destructive effort to foil revolutionary impulses. “Liberty, when it begins to take
root, is a plant of rapid growth,” Washington remarked to Madison in 1788. “The
checks [the king] endeavors to give it . . . will, more than probably, kindle a ﬂame
which may not easily be extinguished, tho[ugh] for a while it may be smothered
by the armies at his command.”11 With his sure instincts, Washington intuited that
the French Revolution might veer off into fanaticism and warned Lafayette “against
running into extremes and prejudicing your cause.”12 On the other hand, he also
thought that if the king managed change properly, a constitutional monarchy might
ensue. Paradoxically, Jefferson, an eyewitness to the revolution’s outbreak, seemed
blind to its violent potential. In August 1788 he blithely reported to James Monroe
from France, “I think it probable this country will, within two or three years, be in
the enjoyment of a tolerably free constitution and that without its having cost them
a drop of blood.”13 Perhaps because of his association with enlightened Parisian
intellectuals, Jefferson missed the bloodthirsty spirit of the French Revolution, its
lust for gore and its gratuitous butchering of innocent victims.
The early days of the French Revolution, so giddily triumphant, produced general rejoicing among Americans. In the spring and summer of 1789 they applauded
the creation of the National Assembly and the Declaration of the Rights of Man and
Citizen, written by Lafayette with assistance from Jefferson. The Bastille’s downfall,
however, displayed the bloody predilections of the Parisian mobs, who decapitated
the prison governor and sported his head on a pike. Such grisly details seemed lost
upon many Americans cheering the event. The day after the Bastille was stormed,
Lafayette, who hoped for a “fusion between the royalty and the people,” was named
head of the National Guard of Paris, further encouraging Americans to believe that

Running into Extremes r! 659

their revolution had engendered a ﬁtting sequel in France.14 In a masterful stroke,
Lafayette sent Washington the ponderous old key to the Bastille gate plus a sketch
of the infamous fortress. “Give me leave, my dear general, to present you with a
picture of the Bastille just as it looked a few days after I had ordered its demolition,
with the main key of that fortress of despotism,” he wrote. “It is a tribute which I
owe as a son to my adoptive father, as an aide-de-camp to my general, as a missionary of liberty to its patriarch.”15 Later on, the president hung the key inside a
wall lantern at Mount Vernon, with the picture below it, spurring Chateaubriand’s
mordant comment, “If Washington had seen the ‘victors of the Bastille’ disporting
themselves in the gutters of Paris, he would have felt less respect for his relic.”16
While careful to support France in public, Washington succumbed to deep
foreboding in private and predicted a cascading series of violent events. Like other
Americans, he wanted to embrace the French Revolution, but he recoiled from its
excessive zeal. In October 1789 he told Gouverneur Morris that while France “has
gone triumphantly through the ﬁrst paroxysm, it is not the last it has to encounter
before matters are ﬁnally settled. In a word, the revolution is of too great magnitude to be effected in so short a space and with the loss of so little blood.”17 He
feared both the frenzied mobs and the benighted aristocrats plotting to restore their
privileges. Morris’s letters from Paris had a profound impact on Washington, as Jefferson suspected, because they captured with a cool eye the demagogic logic of the
revolution and the fanaticism fast taking hold.
Lafayette’s tragedy in the French Revolution was that he tried to model himself
after Washington and re-create his success in a situation that mocked his ambitions.
In January 1790, calling himself Washington’s “ﬁlial friend,” Lafayette wrote to say
how often he had wished for his mentor’s “wise advices and friendly support!”18 He
was not oblivious to the revolution’s defects, but he thought they would be mended
in time and hoped for the French equivalent of a Constitutional Convention in ten
years. There was a note of quiet apprehension in Lafayette’s letters, a lonely whistling in the dark, as he recorded the wholesale destruction of the aristocracy, while
hoping that liberty would somehow thrive in the resulting vacuum. Still wedded
to replicating the American Revolution, he wrote in the slightly defensive tone of a
man trying too hard to convince himself that all was well.
As news of Parisian atrocities reached American shores, Washington remained
guardedly supportive of the French Revolution in public, conﬁning his misgivings to a small circle of intimates. Writing to Rochambeau on August 10, 1790, he
dismissed the horror stories printed in the London papers as reminiscent of British propaganda during the war: “Happily for you, we remembered how our own
armies, after having been all slain to a man in the English newspapers, came to
life again and even performed prodigies of valor against that very nation whose

66 0

r! The Pr esident

newspapers had so unmercifully destroyed them.”19 In truth, Washington lent considerable credence to British reports, as he conﬁded to Lafayette: “I will avow the
accounts we received through the English papers . . . caused our fears of a failure
almost to exceed our expectations of success.”20
When deputies in the National Assembly abolished aristocratic titles in June
1790, Lafayette surprised his fellow noblemen by supporting the measure, claiming it had “something of the American character.”21 Henceforth, the Marquis de
Lafayette was known simply as Lafayette. Even as he curried favor with the masses,
however, Lafayette worried that mob violence would supplant the rule of law, telling Washington in August 1790, “I have lately lost some of my favor with the mob
and displeased the frantic lovers of licentiousness, as I am bent on establishing a
legal subordination.”22 It was Lafayette’s misfortune that the lower classes regarded
him as too conservative while patricians jeered at him as too radical. Nothing better illustrates the distance between the American and French revolutions than the
fact that Lafayette, who was so at home in the Continental Army, seemed tragically
out of place in France, naïvely pursuing the chimera of a constitutional monarchy
among political cutthroats on the Paris streets.
Among those trying to place the French Revolution squarely in the American
grain, perhaps none was more inﬂuential than Thomas Paine. In 1791 he published
The Rights of Man as a response to Edmund Burke’s inﬂuential denunciation, Reﬂections on the Revolution in France. Burke had condemned the royal family’s mistreatment and prophesied bloodshed to come. Paine, in contrast, portrayed events
in France as reprising the spirit of 1776 and called for a written constitution, with
an elected assembly and chief executive. Paine, who could be both arrogant and
presumptuous, dedicated his polemic to Washington without ﬁrst seeking his permission and published his screed in London on February 22, 1791—Washington’s
birthday. Drawing further parallels to the American Revolution, Paine informed
Washington that he wanted to “make a cheap edition, just sufﬁcient to bring in the
price of the printing and paper, as I did by Common Sense.”23
Thomas Jefferson helped to arrange for publication of The Rights of Man in
Philadelphia, telling the printer that he was “extremely pleased to ﬁnd it will be
reprinted here and that something is at length to be publicly said against the political heresies which have sprung up among us.”24 Jefferson professed amazement
when the printer used this letter as a preface to Paine’s work. Since Jefferson’s reference to “political heresies” was widely construed as a swipe at the supposed cryptomonarchism of John Adams’s treatise Discourses on Davila, it created a brouhaha.
The mortiﬁed Jefferson wrote a long, repentant letter to Washington, claiming that
his letter had been used without permission and denying any intention to vilify the

Running into Extremes r! 661

vice president. Washington’s failure to acknowledge Jefferson’s apology suggests his
silent fury. Jefferson’s own letters to Paine reﬂect his fear of highly placed monarchists in Washington’s administration who were “preaching up and panting after an
English constitution of king, lords, and commons and whose heads are itching for
crowns, coronets, and mitres.”25
Because of the controversy over Paine’s work, Washington responded to his letter with a blandly evasive reply. He pleaded the pressing duties of ofﬁce and his
imminent return to Mount Vernon as reasons why he couldn’t react in detail: “Let
it sufﬁce, therefore, at this time to say that I rejoice in the information of your
personal prosperity and . . . that it is the ﬁrst wish of my heart that the enlightened
policy of the present age may diffuse to all men those blessings to which they are
entitled and lay the foundation of happiness for future generations.”26 Washington
had a matchless talent for skirting unwanted controversies.
In June 1791 King Louis XVI and the royal family ﬂed Paris in disguise—the king
dressed as a valet, the queen as the children’s governess—only to be stopped and
arrested by Lafayette’s National Guard at Varennes, northeast of Paris. Although
Lafayette duly informed the king and queen that the National Assembly had placed
them under a full-time guard, he was nonetheless denounced as a traitor on the
Paris streets, and Danton accused him of engineering the royal family’s escape. The
underground press in France went so far as to caricature Lafayette in pornographic
poses with Marie-Antoinette. These events dimmed any hope for a constitutional
monarchy. Jefferson delivered to Washington the stunning news from Paris. “I
never saw him so much dejected by any event in my life,” Jefferson reported of his
reaction.27 A crestfallen Lafayette was dismayed by the behavior of the royal couple,
lamenting that Marie-Antoinette was “more concerned about looking beautiful in
the face of danger than about staving it off.”28
In September 1792 the monarchy would be abolished. Beset by terrible premonitions, Washington was extremely concerned about Lafayette’s endangered position
and, in a letter to him, identiﬁed a cardinal characteristic of the French Revolution
that especially upset him: the urban mob. “The tumultuous populace of large cities
are ever to be dreaded,” he wrote. “Their indiscriminate violence prostrates for the
time all public authority, and its consequences are sometimes extensive and terrible.”29 In October 1791 Lafayette resigned from the National Guard and retreated
to the rural serenity of his home, the Château Chavaniac. He sent Washington a
letter that breathed contentment, as if his troubles had suddenly evaporated. “After
ﬁfteen years of revolution, I am proﬁting from a new and agreeable life of calm in
the mountains where I was born.”30 Given the turbulent events unfolding in Paris,
this peaceful interlude was fated to be of short duration.

662

r! The Pr esident
·

·

·

Ev e n a s Wa sh i ngt on worriedly tracked events in France, he had to deal with
a brilliant, charming, but difﬁcult Frenchman at home. Though historians often
pin the label of military engineer or architect on Major Pierre-Charles L’Enfant,
he had trained as a painter at the Royal Academy of Painting and Sculpture in
Paris. At twenty-two, he joined the Continental Army with other French volunteers, forming part of the engineering corps, and sketched soldiers at Valley Forge.
After the war he had turned New York’s City Hall into Federal Hall, establishing his
credentials as a talented architect. As early as September 1789 he proposed himself
to Washington as designer of the new federal capital. A peerless judge of talent,
Washington soon grasped L’Enfant’s visionary powers, but their relationship was
never smooth.
A portrait of L’Enfant shows a man with a coolly superior air. With an imagination shaped by the courts, palaces, and public works of Europe, L’Enfant would be
hotheaded and autocratic in negotiating the intricacies of the new capital. Hypersensitive, with a touch of grandiosity, he was the perfect man to hatch a dream but
not to implement it. It was characteristic of Washington that L’Enfant’s hauteur
did not deter him; the president had faith in his ability to control even the most
intractable personalities and extract the best from them. His checkered relationship
with L’Enfant was a classic encounter between a consummate pragmatist and an
uncompromising dreamer.
In early 1791 Washington asked L’Enfant to review the grounds selected for
the new capital and identify the most promising sites for the chief government
buildings. Local proprietors had already granted the president sweeping powers
to shape the city. “The President shall have the sole power of directing the Federal
City to be laid off in what manner he pleases,” they agreed. “He may retain any
number of squares he may think proper for public improvements or other public
uses.”31 On March 28, at the outset of his southern tour, Washington met with
L’Enfant, who laid before him a rough pencil sketch of the new capital. He envisioned the seat of Congress on the brow of the highest wood, a steep spot called
Jenkins Hill, which he praised as “a pedestal waiting for a superstructure.”32 This
building would be the visual centerpiece of the city, with broad, diagonal thoroughfares radiating outward. Its centrality bore an unmistakable message about
the primacy of the people’s branch of government. Rejecting a simple grid for the
capital as “tiresome and insipid,” he argued that such a pattern made sense only
for ﬂat cities.33 Not only would diagonal streets provide “contrast and variety,”
but they would serve as express lanes, shortening the distance between places.34
Town squares would be situated where diagonal avenues crossed. The kernel of

Running into Extremes r! 663

the future Washington, D.C., lay in that conception. Striking a note of buoyant
optimism that appealed to the president, L’Enfant wanted the city to be able to
grow in size and beauty as “the wealth of the nation will permit it to pursue, at
any period, however remote.”35
Aside from trimming the number of diagonal streets, Washington gave L’Enfant
an unrestricted hand to pursue his plan. At the close of his southern tour, he rode
across the federal district with L’Enfant and Andrew Ellicott to experience the elevations chosen for Congress and other public buildings. While he endorsed Jenkins
Hill for Congress, he balked at a site chosen for the executive mansion and opted for
higher ground farther west, thereby asserting executive power and giving it visual
parity with the Capitol. In endorsing the spot for the future White House, L’Enfant
cunningly played to Washington’s interests by observing that it would possess an
“extensive view down the Potomac, with a prospect of the whole harbor and town
of Alexandria”—that is, it would face Mount Vernon.36 The entire project gratiﬁed
Washington’s vanity on another level: people assumed that the new city would be
named either Washington or Washingtonople. In September Washington learned
that the commissioners had indeed decided, without fanfare, to call the city Washington and the surrounding district Columbia, giving birth to Washington, D.C.
Washington would never have signed the original Residence Act had the capital
then been called Washington—it would have seemed supremely vain—but now he
was merely acceding to the will of the three bureaucrats he had appointed.
That October Washington sneaked in a monthlong stay at Mount Vernon before Congress reconvened. The health of his tubercular nephew and estate manager,
George Augustine Washington, had deteriorated so sharply that he had gone to
Berkeley Springs for rest. He was a likable young man who pleased many visitors;
one praised his “gentle manner and interesting face” and another described him as
a “handsome, genteel, attentive man.”37 By this point, however, he could scarcely
ride a horse, much less manage an estate, and Washington named his secretary,
Robert Lewis, as temporary manager of Mount Vernon. Lewis would eventually be
succeeded by Anthony Whitting.
In the federal district L’Enfant, schooled in a European tradition where master
builders ruled entire projects, refused to take direction from anyone. The ﬁrst lots
were auctioned off in Georgetown on October 17, with Jefferson and Madison in
attendance; L’Enfant declined to show anyone his map, afraid that buyers would
shun parcels in sections distant from the main government buildings. The most he
deigned to share with bidders was a verbal description of the town layout. Washington had expected to be on hand for the three-day sale but was caught in an embarrassing error. In planning his return trip to Philadelphia, he knew that Congress
would meet the fourth Friday of October, which he calculated as October 31. He

664

r! The Pr esident

was mortiﬁed to discover that he had miscalculated and that Congress would meet
October 24. “I had no more idea of this than I had of its being doomsday,” he told
Tobias Lear.38 Thrown for a loop, he departed hastily for Philadelphia to give his
annual address to Congress and arrived in time to deliver an upbeat assessment of
the state of the Union, noting “the happy effects of that revival of conﬁdence, public
as well as private, to which the Constitution and laws of the United States have so
eminently contributed.”39 L’Enfant had been instructed to bring to Philadelphia a
plan of the federal city, which Washington would submit to Congress with his annual message, but the mercurial Frenchman never delivered it.
In late October the three commissioners informed Washington that L’Enfant’s
high-handed refusal to turn over his plans had impeded the auction; scarcely more
than thirty lots had been sold. Washington replied angrily that while he had suspected that L’Enfant might be obstinate in defending his plan, he had not thought
he would go so far as to sabotage the sale. Clearly L’Enfant would make no concessions to attract real estate speculators and considered himself answerable only to the
president. His feud with the commissioners festered. At one point, when L’Enfant
demolished a building erected by a commissioner because it intruded on one of
his grand avenues, the clash erupted into open warfare. Washington conﬁdentially
told Jefferson that he could tolerate the French prima donna up to a point, but “he
must know there is a line beyond which he will not be suffered to go.”40 Much as he
hated losing L’Enfant, Washington knew that, unless he reined him in tightly, he
might lose his three commissioners. He had Jefferson draft a stern reprimand to
the Frenchman, to be sent out under his own signature. “Having the beauty and
harmony of your plan only in view,” Washington wrote, “you pursue it as if every
person and thing was obliged to yield to it, whereas the commissioners have many
circumstances to attend to, some of which, perhaps, may be unknown to you.”41
L’Enfant seriously misread Washington, who wanted harmony and cooperation among those involved in planning the new capital. In January 1792 the selfimportant L’Enfant submitted a lengthy memorandum to Washington, which was
a barefaced attempt to push aside the commissioners and take sole control of the
project. After proposing a one-million-dollar expenditure and a workforce of a
thousand men, L’Enfant ended by saying, “It is necessary to place under the authority of one single director all those employed in the execution.”42 Washington
grew apoplectic. “The conduct of Maj[o]r L’Enfant and those employed under him
astonishes me beyond measure!” he told Jefferson, who drew up an ultimatum in
which he asked L’Enfant point-blank whether he intended to subordinate himself
to the commissioners.43 Always eager to compromise, Washington sent Tobias Lear
to patch things up with L’Enfant, but the latter blustered that he needed complete
freedom from the commissioners. On February 27, 1792, bowing to the inevitable,

Running into Extremes r! 665

Jefferson terminated L’Enfant’s services. Washington ended up feeling bitter toward
L’Enfant for his imperious treatment of the commissioners. Nevertheless, the broad
strokes of L’Enfant’s design for Washington, D.C., left their imprint on the city. As
John Adams concluded years later, “Washington, Jefferson, and L’Enfant were the
triumvirate who planned the city, the capitol, and the prince’s palace.”44
Philadelphia’s citizens were by no means resigned to their city being only a temporary capital and continued to throw up new government buildings, hoping to sway
legislators to stay. When they tried constructing a new presidential residence, Washington saw their secret intent and insisted that his current house was perfectly satisfactory.
Sensing an even split in public opinion about moving the capital to the Potomac, he
divulged his fears to Jefferson: “The current in this city sets so strongly against the Federal City that I believe nothing that can be avoided will ever be accomplished in it.”45
Washington grew paranoid about the wily Philadelphians, even imagining that local
printers stalled in producing engraved designs of the Potomac capital. Any delays, he
feared, might doom the enterprise. He pressed for buildings in the District of Columbia that would foreshadow America’s future might and rival the great cities of Europe.
“The buildings, especially the Capitol, ought to be upon a scale far superior to anything in this country,” he insisted to Jefferson. The house for the president should be
both “chaste” and “capacious.”46 In time the city of Washington would come to justify
the grandiose dimensions envisioned by both Washington and L’Enfant.

A s e a r ly a s t h e fa l l of 17 8 9 , Washington emphasized to General Arthur
St. Clair, ﬁrst governor of the Northwest Territory, that he preferred a peace treaty
with the hostile Indians of the Ohio Country to war. On the other hand, as long as
those tribes, instigated by the British, pursued depredations on frontier communities, the government would be “constrained to punish them with severity.”47 During
the summer of 1790 the Miami and Wabash tribes ﬂouted peace overtures from
the government and conducted ﬁerce raids against American trafﬁc on the Ohio
and Wabash rivers. In response, Washington and Knox instructed St. Clair to summon the militia and destroy crops and villages of the offending Indians, hoping a
show of strength would prod them into a negotiated peace. Selected to command
the ﬁfteen-hundred-man force, made up mostly of militia, was Brigadier General
Josiah Harmar, a Revolutionary War veteran whose drinking habits caused concern
in Philadelphia. Henry Knox scolded Harmar for being “too fond of the convivial
glass” and pointed out that Washington was aware of this problem.48
At the end of that September, Harmar led his men on an expedition against the
Wabash Indians northwest of the Ohio River. By mid-November, with the fate of
the operation wrapped in mysterious silence, Washington girded for bad news and

666

r! The Pr esident

confessed to Knox his forebodings of a “disgraceful termination” to the expedition.
Always moralistic about alcohol problems, he reserved harsh words for General
Harmar. “I expected little from the moment I heard he was a drunkard,” he told
Knox.49 Washington’s worries about the expedition were prescient: Harmar’s men
suffered a stunning defeat at a Miami Indian village near the present-day city of
Fort Wayne, Indiana. The dreadful performance of American troops—they killed
two hundred Indians but suffered an equal number of casualties—only reinforced
Washington and Knox’s long-standing prejudice against militia. Nonetheless, a military court of inquiry vindicated Harmar, labeling his conduct “irreproachable.”50
Washington always tried to be evenhanded in dealing with the Indians. He
hoped that they would abandon their itinerant hunting life and adapt to ﬁxed agricultural communities in the manner of Anglo-Saxon settlers. He never advocated
outright conﬁscation of their land or the forcible removal of tribes, and he berated
American settlers who abused Indians, admitting that he held out no hope for paciﬁc relations with the Indians as long as “frontier settlers entertain the opinion
that there is not the same crime (or indeed no crime at all) in killing an Indian as
in killing a white man.”51 When addressing Seneca chiefs that December, he conceded provocations by American settlers: “The murders that have been committed
upon some of your people by the bad white men, I sincerely lament and reprobate,
and I earnestly hope that the real murderers will be secured and punished as they
deserve.”52 Nevertheless Indians saw only a pattern of steady encroachment and unrelenting westward advancement by white settlers that threatened their traditional
way of life. In the end, Washington’s hope of “civilizing” the Indians by converting
them to agriculture and Christianity was destined to fail.
It was only a matter of time before Washington and Knox got authority to raise
a new regiment and mount a major reprisal against the Indians. Arthur St. Clair, elevated to a major general, was to lead fourteen hundred troops to the Miami village
with an unsparing mandate: “Seek the enemy and endeavor by all possible means to
strike them with great severity.”53 Born in Scotland, trained as a physician, St. Clair
was a seasoned ofﬁcer who had fought in the French and Indian War. Patriotic if a
bit pompous, he had turned in a mixed record during the Revolutionary War but
performed well enough that Washington valued him as a soldier in “high repute.”54
For his 1791 expedition, St. Clair led a threadbare, inexperienced army described
by one ofﬁcer as “badly clothed, badly paid, and badly fed.”55 As this force dragged
brass ﬁeld pieces through the wilderness, it was depleted by illness and desertion.
St. Clair, suffering from agonizing gout, had to be borne aloft on a stretcher. The
general grew peevish over lax discipline among his men and paused during the
march to construct a gallows to punish insubordination.
On November 4, 1791, right before sunrise, St. Clair and his men were camped

Running into Extremes r! 66 7

near the Miami village when up to ﬁfteen hundred Indians pounced in a surprise
attack. Hurling aside artillery and baggage, the Americans ﬂed in a panic-stricken
rout. All discipline broke down amid the general slaughter, and gruesome stories
of butchery ﬁltered back from the wilderness. As one soldier related, “I saw a Capt.
Smith just after he was scalped, setting on his backside, his head smoking like a
chimney.”56 The heart of General Richard Butler was supposedly sliced into pieces
and distributed to the victorious tribes. In a ghoulish warning to stay off their land,
the Indians stuffed the mouths of some victims with soil. St. Clair’s troops suffered
shocking casualties—900 out of 1,400 men—versus only 150 Indians.
According to an account based on an 1816 talk with Tobias Lear, the dreadful
tidings arrived in Philadelphia on December 9, in the middle of one of Martha
Washington’s demure Friday-evening receptions. After knocking at the president’s
door, the courier informed Lear that he had dispatches to deliver directly to Washington. After being pulled from the reception, the president was closeted for a
time with this unusual messenger and read St. Clair’s description of “as warm and
unfortunate an action as almost any that has been fought.”57 When he returned
to the reception, he apologized to his guests but revealed nothing of the extraordinary news. Instead, he went dutifully through his social paces, conversing with
each lady in attendance. With extraordinary self-control, Washington allowed
nothing in his demeanor to hint at the pent-up rage churning inside him. When
the guests were gone, Washington and Lear sat alone by the parlor ﬁre, and Washington blew up in tremendous wrath, throwing up his hands in agitation, scarcely
able to contain his emotions. The editors of the George Washington papers note
that the story “contains some credible details” but also point out that by the date
in question “unofﬁcial reports of the defeat already were circulating in Philadelphia.”58 At a later cabinet meeting, Washington, reaching back to his early frontier
experience, faulted St. Clair for failing to keep “his army in such a position always
as to be able to display them in a line behind trees in the Ind[ia]n manner at any
moment.”59
In early January the ﬁrst news reports of the disaster cast St. Clair in a heroic
light. In February the tenor abruptly changed when Colonel William Darke published an anonymous diatribe against Washington for having dispatched a woefully
inﬁrm general, bedridden and propped up with pillows, into battle: “That the executive should commit the reputation of the government . . . to a man who, from
the situation of his health, was under the necessity of traveling on a bier, seems to
have been an oversight as unexpected as it has been severely censured. A general,
enwrapped ten-fold in ﬂannel robes, unable to walk alone, placed on his car, bolstered on all sides with pillows and medicines, and thus moving on to attack the
most active enemy in the world was . . . a very tragicomical appearance indeed.”60

668

r! The Pr esident

Congressman William B. Grove labeled the St. Clair defeat “the most complete victory ever known in this country obtained by Indians.”61
When Knox submitted a request to Congress for an expanded army and a new
assault on the refractory Indians, several congressmen took advantage of it to condemn administration policy. One critic rebuked the administration for “preparing to
squander away money by millions” and contended that nobody, “except those who
are in the secrets of the Cabinet, knows for what reason the war has been thus carried on for three years.”62 In general, Washington did not dignify such criticisms with
responses, but he asked Knox to draw up a document that could also be published as
a broadside—a distinct departure showing a new sensitivity to public opinion. Knox’s
statement recounted the deaths of white frontier settlers and numerous peace overtures toward the Indians. But these measures having failed, he now argued for a new
and larger army. In early February the House voted its approval of ﬁve new regiments,
with almost a thousand men apiece. To allay fears of a standing army, the new units
were to be disbanded once the Indian threat in the Northwest Territory subsided.
The wrangling between Congress and the administration over Indian warfare
reached a crisis when legislators launched an investigation and asked Knox in late
March for his correspondence relating to the ill-fated St. Clair campaign. Aware
that revealing these papers might redeﬁne the separation of powers, Washington
assembled his cabinet and told them, according to Jefferson, that he wished their
decision “should be rightly conducted” because it might “become a precedent.”63
The cabinet ruled that “the executive ought to communicate such papers as the
public good would permit and ought to refuse those the disclosure of which would
injure the public.”64 This equivocal decision left the question of executive privilege
up in the air. In its ﬁnal report, Congress vindicated St. Clair’s management of the
debacle, placing the onus squarely on Washington’s administration by lambasting
the logistical support the army had received.
Thus far Washington’s Indian policy added up to a well-meaning failure: he had
been able neither to negotiate peace nor to prevail in war. To restore the army’s battered reputation, he appointed Anthony Wayne, the quondam hero of Stony Point,
to lead the new augmented army in the Northwest Territory. The redoubtable
Wayne instituted tough measures to instill discipline in the new army and shaved,
branded, and whipped soldiers to sharpen their performance. While pleased with
Wayne’s rigor, Henry Knox introduced a caveat: “Uncommon punishment not
sanctioned by law should be admitted with caution.”65 The creation of this new,
more professional army only heightened the qualms of those who feared a standing
army and exacerbated the growing political divisions in Philadelphia. Nonetheless,
under Wayne’s leadership, the army would reverse the disastrous direction that Indian warfare had taken during the unsuccessful Harmar and St. Clair campaigns.

ch ap ter fif t y-fiv e

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

A Tissue of Machinations

A s t h e f i r s t pr e si de n t, George Washington hoped to ﬂoat above the political fray and avoid inﬁghting, backbiting, and poisonous intrigue. He wanted to
be an exemplary ﬁgure of national unity, surmounting partisan interests, and was
therefore slow to spot the deep ﬁssures yawning open in his administration. In June
1790 he told Lafayette, “By having Mr Jefferson at the head of the Department of
State . . . Hamilton of the Treasury and Knox of that of War, I feel myself supported
by able coadjutors, who harmonize together extremely well.”1 Washington always
worked hard to appear impartial and to impress the electorate that he was president
of all the people. This pose of immaculate purity was congenial to him, as he sought
a happy medium in his behavior. Despite holding ﬁrm opinions, he was never an
ideologue, and his policy positions did not come wrapped in tidy ideological packages. Rather, they developed in a slow, evolutionary manner, annealed in the heat
of conﬂict.
Washington and other founders entertained the fanciful hope that America
would be spared the bane of political parties, which they called “factions” and associated with parochial self-interest. The ﬁrst president did not see that parties might
someday clarify choices for the electorate, organize opinion, and enlist people in
the political process; rather he feared that parties could blight a still fragile republic.
He was hardly alone. “If I could not go to heaven but with a party,” Jefferson opined,
“I would not go there at all.”2 Yet the ﬁrst factions arose from Jefferson’s extreme
displeasure with Hamilton’s mounting inﬂuence. They were not political parties in
the modern sense so much as clashing coteries of intellectual elites, who operated
through letters and conversations instead of meetings, platforms, and conventions.

670

r! The Pr esident

Nonetheless these groups solidiﬁed into parties during the decade and, notwithstanding the founders’ fears, formed an enduring cornerstone of American democratic politics.
Disturbed by the expansion of federal power under Hamilton’s programs, Jefferson and Madison suspected a secret counterrevolution was at work, an incipient
plot to install a monarchical government on the British model. Their defeat over
the bank bill in late February 1791 convinced them that Hamilton had hopelessly
bewitched the president. Hamilton’s assertion of federal power also awakened fears
that meddlesome northerners might interfere with southern slavery. As one Virginian later said, “Tell me, if Congress can establish banks, make roads and canals,
whether they cannot free all the slaves in the United States.”3
Unlike the Anglophile Hamilton, Jefferson and Madison often seemed to want
to make the American government everything that the British government was not.
To denigrate his foes, Jefferson applied to them hyperbolic labels, including “monocrats” and “Anglomen”—words with an evocative conspiratorial ring. As the French
Revolution grew more sanguinary, Hamilton in turn demonized the Jeffersonians
as involved in a worldwide Jacobin conspiracy emanating from Paris.
To organize opposition to the dangerous political backsliding that they perceived, Jefferson and Madison took a tour of New York and New England in May–
June 1791. The cover story Jefferson supplied to Washington was that he needed a
break “to get rid of a headache which is very troublesome, by giving more exercise
to the body and less to the mind.”4 Jefferson and Madison supposedly planned to
collect botanical specimens, but they actually intended to recruit political partisans, especially on Hamilton’s home turf of New York. A courtly, charismatic
leader, Jefferson was adept at fostering camaraderie among like-minded politicians.
If more circumspect, Madison was no less crafty or committed to the cause. The
long-standing friendship of these two men now deepened into a powerful political
partnership.
It seems strange that the revolt against Washington’s administration originated
with a member of his own cabinet and a close conﬁdant. When the president delivered his annual message to Congress in October 1791, Madison chaired the House
committee that drafted a response, and Washington asked him to draft his own
reply to that document. At the time, no political protocol insisted that disgruntled
cabinet members should resign from an administration with which they disagreed.
Nor was there yet a tradition of a loyal opposition. Washington sometimes found it
hard to differentiate between legitimate dissent and outright disloyalty. He tended
to view criticism as something fomented by wily, demagogic people, manipulating
an otherwise contented populace.
In an extreme act of duplicity, Madison and Jefferson installed a ﬂaming critic

A Tissue of Machinations r! 6 7 1

of Washington right in the heart of his own government. They wanted to counter
the views of John Fenno, editor of the pro-administration Gazette of the United
States, which Jefferson accused of peddling “doctrines of monarchy, aristocracy,
and the exclusion of the inﬂuence of the people.”5 To woo him to Philadelphia,
Jefferson offered a job as State Department translator to the poet Philip Freneau,
who knew only one language and was scarcely qualiﬁed. The suggestion came from
Madison, a friend and former Princeton classmate of his. During the war Freneau
had written a rhapsodic paean to Washington entitled “Cincinnatus.” After being
incarcerated in a loathsome British prison ship, he came to detest everything British and turned against President Washington and the Hamiltonian program with
a vengeance. In late October 1791, after taking the State Department job, Freneau
launched the National Gazette, which became the virulent organ of the Jeffersonian
opposition. In its premier issue, it accused Hamilton of being the kingpin of a monarchist conspiracy and touted Jefferson as the “colossus of liberty.”6
Before long the two factions took on revealing names. The Hamiltonian party
called itself Federalists, implying that it alone supported the Constitution and national unity. It took a robust view of federal power and a strong executive branch,
and it favored banks and manufacturing as well as agriculture. Elitist in its politics,
it tended to doubt the wisdom of the common people, but it also included a large
number of northerners opposed to slavery. The Jeffersonians called themselves Republicans to suggest that they alone could save the Constitution from monarchical encroachments. They believed in limited federal power, a dominant Congress,
states’ rights, and an agrarian nation free of the corrupting inﬂuence of banks,
federal debt, and manufacturing. While led by slaveholders such as Jefferson and
Madison, the Republicans credited the wisdom of the common people. Washington
and Hamilton believed wholeheartedly in an energetic federal government, whereas
Jefferson and Madison feared concentrated power.
By 1792 Washington’s cabinet was split down the middle; Knox typically leaned
toward Hamilton, and Randolph toward Jefferson. Washington never openly identiﬁed with the Federalists and steadfastly hewed to his nonpartisan self-image,
though he sided more often with Hamilton and Knox. Jefferson never doubted
Washington’s integrity or patriotism and could hardly claim that the man who had
resigned his commission at the end of the war and rejected pleas to become a king
harbored royal ambitions. So he ended up explaining Washington’s support for
Hamilton’s policies by suggesting that the treasury secretary, a cunning mastermind, had duped the credulous president into supporting programs he did not
fully comprehend.
·

·

·

672

r! The Pr esident

O n D e c e m be r 5 , 1791 , Hamilton aroused the darkest fears of his opponents
when he submitted to Congress another major state paper, the Report on Manufactures. At a time when the country was overwhelmingly agricultural, Hamilton
devised a visionary blueprint of ways that the federal government, through selective
bounties and import duties, could galvanize manufacturing. He and Washington
recalled how reliance on foreign manufactures had crippled America in wartime;
the report was driven partly by the desire for strategic self-sufﬁciency. As an adjunct
to this report, Hamilton fostered the growth of an organization, the Society for Establishing Useful Manufactures (SEUM), to demonstrate the feasibility of American manufacturing. At the Great Falls of the Passaic River in New Jersey, the society
planned to set up the town of Paterson as a model for American manufacturing.
Far from being Hamilton’s willing dupe, Washington understood his programs
thoroughly. Though he knew America would remain agricultural, he wanted to augment its manufacturing capacity. Starting with his inauguration, he had delighted
in wearing clothes of American manufacture to stimulate the textile industry. At
Mount Vernon he refused to drink porter or eat cheese that was not produced in
America. In his discarded ﬁrst inaugural address, he had endorsed government action to open canals, improve roads, and stimulate internal improvements. It was
Washington who encouraged Hamilton to assist the growth of cotton and hemp
through government bounties. Though a planter, Washington was receptive to
labor-saving gadgetry, even if it meant using female and child labor. In January 1790
he viewed the operation of a new threshing machine and came away enthusiastic.
“Women or boys of 12 or 14 years of age are fully adequate to the management of
the mill or threshing machine,” he wrote in his diary. “Upon the whole, it appears to
be an easier, more expeditious, and much cleaner way of getting out grain than by
the usual mode of threshing.”7 When he toured a Philadelphia cotton factory, one
newspaper reported that the president “attentively viewed the machinery and saw
the business performed in its different branches, which met with his warmest approbation.”8 Congress failed to act on Hamilton’s manufacturing report. In Washington’s view, it didn’t “comport with the temper of the times,” but he still availed
himself of every opportunity to promote American manufacturing.9
The same day that Hamilton delivered his report to Congress, Madison unleashed
an anonymous assault on the Washington administration, accusing it of laying the
groundwork for a monarchy. He deplored the “increasing splendor and number of
prerogatives” enjoyed by the executive branch, which might “strengthen the pretexts
for an hereditary designation of the magistrate.”10 Hamilton, aware of the orchestrated nature of these salvos, wrote to Vice President Adams, “The plot thickens.”11
Starting in the summer of 1791, the Jeffersonians followed with alarm the rampant speculation in government bonds and bank shares. On July 4, 1791, the Trea-

A Tissue of Machinations r! 6 7 3

sury had begun selling shares in the new Bank of the United States, and pent-up
demand proved so explosive that the entire subscription sold out in one frantic
hour. Swarms of investors invaded the Treasury building, mobbing the clerks. For
Hamilton’s supporters, it was dramatic proof of the trust that investors placed in
the new institution. Now an unashamed bank booster, Washington exulted over
this initial offering: “The astonishing rapidity with which the newly instituted bank
was ﬁlled gives an unexampled proof (here) of the resources of our countrymen
and their conﬁdence in public measures.”12 Although the par value of bank stock
was $400 per share, Hamilton, to make it affordable to small investors, allowed
them to make $25 down payments; in exchange, they received certiﬁcates called
scrip, which entitled them to purchase full shares in future installments.
In the next few weeks, as the price of scrip soared, it produced a speculative
frenzy that was dubbed “scrippomania.” Far from construing it as symptomatic
of Hamilton’s success, Madison was appalled by this “scramble for so much public plunder.”13 Equally aghast, Jefferson wondered aloud to Washington whether
“such sums should have been withdrawn from . . . useful pursuits to be employed
in gambling.”14 Hamilton erred in selling most scrip in Philadelphia, Boston, and
New York, feeding southern fears of a northern hegemony. In August the price of
scrip touched such dizzying heights that Senator Rufus King of New York reported
that business had ground to a halt as people rushed to buy scrip, with “mechanics
deserting their shops, shopkeepers sending their goods to auction, and not a few
of our merchants neglecting the regular and proﬁtable commerce of the city.”15 According to Dr. Benjamin Rush, the madness engulfed Philadelphia as well: “The city
of Philadelphia for several days has exhibited the marks of a great gaming house.”16
By August 11 bank scrip had zoomed from the $25 offering price to $300, with government bonds also touching delirious new heights. When bankers drained credit
from the market, speculators dumped their scrip, the bubble burst, and prices
plummeted. Hamilton steadied the market by buying government securities, but
Jefferson was convinced that scrip had already worked its evil inﬂuence. “The spirit
of gaming, once it has seized a subject, is incurable,” he wrote.17
The speculative fever abated temporarily, and Hamilton had to counter an organized effort to revive it. His friend William Duer, recently departed as assistant
treasury secretary, had hatched a plan to corner the market in government bonds
and bank shares and enlisted Alexander Macomb, a wealthy merchant, to join the
effort. What made this situation so distressing for Hamilton was that he had just
tapped Duer as governor of the SEUM, where Macomb was also a governor. The two
men emerged as ringleaders of a speculative clique known as the Six Per Cent Club
because they tried to manipulate the price of government bonds yielding 6 percent.
In early 1792 ﬁnancial markets grew feverish as the creation of several new banks

6 74

r! The Pr esident

spurred a mania for bank shares. “Bancomania” surpassed even the “scrippomania”
of the previous summer. Hamilton was staggered by the disorder: “These extravagant sallies of speculation do injury to the government and to the whole system of
public credit by disgusting all sober citizens and giving a wild air to everything.”18
Far from seeing Hamilton as trying to restrain Duer, Jefferson believed they were
in cahoots and warned Washington that the ﬁnancial mania was not only “destructive of morality” but had “introduced its poison into the government itself.”19 The
ﬁght over ﬁnancial policy was fast becoming a ﬁght over the proper direction of
the country; Washington was caught in the blazing crossﬁre between his brilliant
treasury secretary and his equally brilliant secretary of state.
After bank shares attained giddy levels in January 1792, they began to slide, creating a crisis for Duer, who had borrowed scandalously large amounts from New
York creditors. “Widows, orphans, merchants, mechanics, etc. are all concerned in
the notes,” Hamilton’s friend Robert Troup informed him.20 By March 9, with bank
shares plunging, Duer stopped payment to creditors, with catastrophic repercussions. Two dozen ﬁnanciers went bankrupt the next day, and Duer was packed off
to debtors’ prison, as much to protect him from angry mobs as to punish him.
Feeling grimly vindicated, Jefferson gloated over the mayhem, writing that “the
credit and fate of the nation seem to hang on the desperate throws and plunges of
gambling scoundrels.”21 Hamilton again restored order to the market by purchasing
government securities, but the damage to his reputation had been done, especially
when it surfaced that William Duer had raided the SEUM coffers for speculative
funds. In the National Gazette Freneau seized this chance to revile the Hamiltonian
system, which he blamed for “scenes of speculation calculated to aggrandize the few
and the wealthy, while oppressing the great body of the people.”22 In this situation,
neutrality was not an option for Washington, who would be forced to choose sides
between Hamilton and Jefferson.
A lt hough Wa sh i ng t on had originally planned to resign during his ﬁrst
term, many Americans could not imagine another president and automatically
assumed he would stay in ofﬁce indeﬁnitely. Whatever their quibbles about his
policies, citizens still honored his exalted character and place in history. As Lund
Washington wrote from Virginia, “No person has an idea but that you must remain
at the head of the government so long as you live.”23 It wasn’t the ﬁrst time Washington became the captive of a position from which he could not extricate himself.
Once again, as the indispensable man in a crisis, he was held hostage to events.
Further signs of aging were visible in the craggy face, the whitening hair, the slightly
stooped gait.
On February 21, 1792, the eve of his sixtieth birthday, Philadelphians toasted him

A Tissue of Machinations r! 6 75

with an exuberant celebration, throwing a fancy ball in his honor and draping
huge transparencies over buildings inscribed with the words “Vive Le Président.”
Amid the growing strife in American politics, the public was gripped by a pervasive
fear that Washington might serve only one term. Tobias Lear articulated the widespread sentiment: “I fear more from the election of another president, whenever
our present great and good one quits his political or natural career, than from any
other event.”24 Protective of her husband and well aware of the grave medical problems that punctuated his ﬁrst term, Martha Washington hoped he would decline a
second.
In this increasingly dark, conspiratorial atmosphere, Washington received three
malicious letters, warning him anonymously of the secret presidential ambitions of
Jefferson and of Madison’s treachery: “When you ask the opinion of the S[ecretary]
of S[tate], he affects great humility and says he is not a judge of military matters.
Behind your back, he reviles with the greatest asperity your military measures and
ridicules the idea of employing any regular troops . . . His doctrines are strongly
supported by his cunning little friend Madison.”25 In another letter, the poisonpen artist made sure Washington knew of the intrigue behind Freneau’s hiring at
the State Department: “I do not believe you know that the National Gazette was
established under the immediate patronage of Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Madison, and
that Mr. Freneau, the printer of it, is a clerk in the Secretary of State’s ofﬁce with a
salary as interpreter.”26 The object of these men, the author averred, was to make
Washington “odious” and “destroy Mr. Hamilton.”27
At this point Washington sloughed off suspicions about Jefferson, as evidenced
by two remarkable meetings they held in February 1792. At the ﬁrst, Jefferson lobbied to make the postal service part of the State Department rather than Treasury, hoping that would choke the excessive growth of Hamilton’s department. In
passing, Jefferson mentioned that if Washington ever retired, he would too. This
comment reverberated in Washington’s mind overnight, and at breakfast the next
morning, he launched into a frank discussion of his political future. He noted to
Jefferson that he had agreed reluctantly to attend the Constitutional Convention
and serve as ﬁrst president. But now,
were he to continue longer, it might give room to say that, having tasted the sweets
of ofﬁce, he could not do without them; that he really felt himself growing old, his
bodily health less ﬁrm, his memory, always bad, becoming worse; and perhaps the
other faculties of his mind showing a decay to others of which he was insensible himself; that this apprehension particularly oppressed him; that he found moreover his
activity lessened, business therefore more irksome, and tranquillity and retirement
become an irresistible passion. That however he felt himself obliged for these reasons

676

r! The Pr esident
to retire from the government, yet he should consider it as unfortunate if that should
bring on the retirement of the great ofﬁcers of the government and that this might
produce a shock on the public mind of dangerous consequence.28

This remarkable burst of candor, as recounted by Jefferson, showed that Washington still trusted the secretary of state. In a private memorandum on the talk, Jefferson disclosed that he himself was “heartily tired” of his job and stayed only from
a sense that Hamilton would linger for several years.29 Later Jefferson wrote how
much he had hated doing battle with Hamilton in the cabinet, descending “daily
into the arena like a gladiator to suffer martyrdom in every conﬂict.”30 When Washington made plain that he could not contemplate retirement because of “symptoms
of dissatisfaction” toward the administration, Jefferson made bold to say that there
was only a single source of discontent, the Treasury Department, and “that a system
had there been contrived for deluging the states with paper money instead of gold
and silver, for withdrawing our citizens from the pursuits of commerce, manufactures, buildings, and other branches of useful industry to occupy themselves and
their capitals in a species of gambling.”31 Throwing caution to the wind, Jefferson
said Hamilton had suborned congressmen who “feathered their nests with [government] paper” and therefore voted for his system.32 Hamilton’s Report on Manufactures, Jefferson claimed, would destroy any pretense of limited government and
enable the government to undertake any measure it liked. Washington must have
been shocked as he fathomed the depth of animosity between his two most talented
lieutenants. At the same time Madison was slashing away anonymously at Hamilton in the National Gazette, inveighing against “a government operated by corrupt
inﬂuence, substituting the motive of private interest in place of public duty.”33
What made the rising tide of criticism more troublesome for Washington was
that much of it originated from Virginia, where he was increasingly regarded as
an apostate. Edward Thornton, secretary to the British minister, observed in April
1792 that Washington “has very few who are on terms of intimate and unreserved
friendship” with him and “what is worse, he is less beloved in his own state than in
any part of the United States.”34 Three years later Washington told Edmund Randolph that, if the Union were to break up into North and South, “he had made up
his mind to remove and be of the northern.”35 That Washington now identiﬁed
with northern ﬁnance, commerce, and even abolitionism would have major consequences for American history. Had he sided with Jefferson and Madison, it might
have deepened irrevocably the cleavage between North and South and opened an
unbridgeable chasm seventy years before the Civil War.
Washington was expert at keeping his woes to himself and not showing the
stress of ofﬁce. While he now knew the extent of Jefferson’s antipathy toward Ham-

A Tissue of Machinations r! 6 7 7

ilton, he did not believe the wilder charges swirling around his secretary of state.
When Eliza Powel sent him a pamphlet accusing Jefferson of pro-French policies,
he replied that the writer should investigate the facts more closely. “Had he done
this,” wrote Washington, quoting Shakespeare’s The Tempest, “he would . . . have
found many of his charges as unsupported as the ‘baseless fabric of a vision.’”36
Starting in November 1791 and running for more than a year, James Madison
published eighteen essays excoriating the administration in the National Gazette.
Nevertheless, on May 5, 1792, apparently unaware of his authorship, Washington
unburdened himself to Madison about his political plans. The recent ﬁnancial
panic in New York had added to the uproar over the administration’s policies.
Washington said that he had already made known to Madison his intention to retire at the end of his ﬁrst term and asked for Madison’s opinion “on the mode and
time most proper for making known that intention.”37 He further said that he had
apprised Hamilton, Knox, and Jefferson and that all had argued strenuously against
his retirement. Washington had the modesty to state that he was not “arrogantly
presuming on his re-election in case he should not withdraw himself,” though that
was a foregone conclusion.38 Madison buttressed the consensus that it would be
perilous for Washington to withdraw and that he alone could reconcile the warring
parties. Another four years under Washington, Madison maintained, would “give
such a tone and ﬁrmness to the government as would secure it against danger” from
enemies on either side.39
At this point Washington discarded his impenetrable reserve and poured out
his inmost thoughts, humbly confessing to feelings of inadequacy and saying that
he could not conceive of himself as necessary to the “successful administration of
the government; that, on the contrary, he had from the beginning found himself
deﬁcient in many of the essential qualiﬁcations . . . that others more conversant in
such matters would be better able to execute the trust; that he found himself also in
the decline of life, his health becoming sensibly more inﬁrm and perhaps his faculties also; that the fatigues and disagreeableness of his situation were, in fact, scarcely
tolerable to him.”40
That Washington dwelled on his inability to arbitrate constitutional disputes
showed the heavy toll taken by the cabinet debate over the Bank of the United
States. The president also complained of memory lapses, poor vision, and growing
deafness—all socially conﬁning conditions. Despite Washington’s fears, his letters
show no evidence of his mental powers’ fading, and they were often amazingly
vigorous. That Jefferson and Madison took such a decline seriously perhaps reﬂects their wish to portray Washington as softheaded and easily manipulated by
Hamilton.
In chatting with Madison, Washington also deplored the press onslaught against

678

r! The Pr esident

his administration, little knowing that the man from whom he was seeking commiseration was a secret author of some of those assaults. The episode showed Madison’s capacity for duplicity—that he could act as Washington’s conﬁdant even as
he betrayed him. Although Jefferson and Madison wanted to elect a Republican
vice president instead of John Adams, they had no desire to replace Washington,
doubtless afraid that an unfettered Hamilton would succeed him.
As with all major decisions, Washington pondered long and hard whether to
remain in ofﬁce. On May 20 he told Madison that he had mulled over his arguments for a second term but remained unconvinced and wanted to end his days “in
ease and tranquillity.”41 He also thought that stepping down and letting someone
else serve as president would be “more congenial” with ideas of liberty.42 Despite
worries that it might be interpreted as a ploy to prod the American public to urge
him to stay in ofﬁce, Washington asked Madison to draft a valedictory address. He
outlined the main themes, including the need for national unity and civility in public life. At this point Washington sounded pretty deﬁnite in his decision. Madison
composed a farewell address, even though he told Washington that he hoped he
would make “one more sacriﬁce . . . to the desire and interests of your country.”43
Even while drafting Washington’s plea for unity and mutual respect, Madison was
writing surreptitiously for the National Gazette, and that summer he and Jefferson
took the precaution of exchanging letters in code.
As Federalists and Republicans envisioned life without Washington, both feared
they would be left to the tender mercies of each other. About the only thing Hamilton and Jefferson agreed upon was the absolute need to keep Washington as president. On May 23 Jefferson urged Washington to remain in ofﬁce and dropped his
circumspection about Hamilton. In a full-throated diatribe, he warned that Hamilton’s bank, funded debt, and excise taxes were intended “to prepare the way for
a change from the present republican form of government to that of a monarchy,
of which the English constitution is to be the model.”44 With the South ﬁlled with
debtors and the North creditors, Jefferson feared the country would break apart
along sectional lines. Jefferson underscored Washington’s special status: “North and
south will hang together if they have you to hang on.”45 If an honest Congress was
elected in the fall, Jefferson predicted, Washington could step down in safety before
completing his second term, knowing the government had been saved.
No less than Jefferson, Hamilton was convinced that the opposition party was
engaged in a secret plot to subvert the government. In a furious letter to Edward
Carrington of Virginia, he claimed to be certain of the following: “That Mr. Madison, cooperating with Mr. Jefferson, is at the head of a faction decidedly hostile to
me and my administration and actuated by views, in my judgment, subversive of
the principles of good government and dangerous to the union, peace and hap-

A Tissue of Machinations r! 6 7 9

piness of the country.”46 Despite the venomous split in his cabinet, Washington
worked mightily to defuse the controversy and appease Hamilton and Jefferson.
He was not intimidated by these men of exceptional intelligence. Neither Hamilton
nor Jefferson liked being subordinate to anyone, and both must have found it hard
to submit to Washington, which only made his feat of controlling them the more
remarkable.
On June 20 Madison sent Washington a draft of the farewell address, which
he suggested should be published in mid-September. “You will readily observe
that in executing it, I have aimed at that plainness and modesty of language which
you had in view.”47 From the letter’s difﬁdent tone, Washington would never have
suspected Madison’s brazen role in pounding his administration in the National
Gazette. On July 4 Freneau published a front-page polemic listing the “rules for
changing a limited republican government into an unlimited hereditary one,” and
he singled out Hamilton’s policies as the surest way to accomplish it.48 Rubbing salt
into the wounds, Freneau had three copies of his paper delivered daily to Washington’s doorstep.
On July 10 Washington sat down at Mount Vernon for another candid chat with
Jefferson about whether he should remain as president. He clearly felt trapped in
ofﬁce. He pointed out that he had intended to serve only two years, then was induced to stay for a third because of the country’s unsettled state; now he was again
being told it was dangerous for him to depart. He grew indignant at Freneau’s
charge that he headed a monarchical party. While a few might wish for a monarchy “in the higher walks of life, particularly in the great cities . . . the main body
of the people in the eastern states were steadily for republicanism as in the southern.”49 He protested the insinuation that he was a dim-witted tool in Hamilton’s
hands and took dead aim at those who ﬂattered him while seeking to discredit
him indirectly by attacking Hamilton. Jefferson recorded Washington as saying
that “in condemning the administration of the gov[ern]ment, they condemned
him, for if they thought there were measures pursued contrary to his sentiment,
they must conceive him too careless to attend to them or too stupid to understand
them.”50 In this statement, Washington exploded the myth that he was a puppet
jerked about by an all-powerful Hamilton or a ceremonial caretaker of his own
administration.
While at Mount Vernon, Washington absorbed southern grumbling about his
policies. Meanwhile he asked Tobias Lear, then traveling in New England, to canvass
sentiment there about whether he should serve a second term. Lear reported strong
sentiment in favor of a second term in order to give the still-new federal government a fair chance to establish itself. The people said that “most of the important
things hitherto done under this government . . . had not yet been long enough in

68 0

r! The Pr esident

operation to give satisfactory proof whether they are beneﬁcial or not” and they
would not have a fair experiment under any administration other than Washington’s.51 People were so convinced that Washington needed to remain in power, Lear
asserted, “that no other person seems ever to have been contemplated for that ofﬁce.”52 Attorney General Randolph also issued a dramatic plea for Washington to
stay, saying that “The public deliberations need stability.”53
On July 25 the feud between Hamilton and Jefferson acquired new ferocity
when Hamilton, for the ﬁrst time, published an anonymous essay rebuking Jefferson. Writing in Fenno’s Gazette of the United States, he posed a simple question
about Freneau and his State Department stipend: “Whether this salary is paid him
for translations or for publications, the design of which is to vilify those to whom
the voice of the people has committed the administration of our public affairs . . . ?”54
The attack, one paragraph in length, showed that Hamilton had thrown down a
gauntlet to Jefferson and was prepared to take his case to the public.
Washington would now have to stop the sparring between his two cabinet
members; their feud was far more vitriolic than he had dreamed possible. On July
29, in a conﬁdential letter, he told Hamilton that he had sought the views of people
en route to Mount Vernon and at home and found that they viewed the country as
“prosperous and happy” but were alarmed at certain policies and interpretations of
the Constitution.55 He enumerated twenty-one complaints that touched on Hamilton’s policy initiatives, including accusations that he had created excessive public
debt, imposed onerous excise taxes on the people, promoted ﬁnancial speculation,
and corrupted the legislature. Although Washington cited George Mason as the
source of these complaints, the language was drawn verbatim from Jefferson, and
Hamilton could scarcely have missed the allusion. One can only assume that Washington, sensitive to nuance, wanted Hamilton to hear echoes of Jefferson’s phraseology. The most damning charge was the ﬁnal one: that the real object of Hamilton’s
policies was “to prepare the way for a change from the present republican form of
government to that of a monarchy, of which the British Constitution is to be the
model.”56 Disquieted by the political backlash against his programs in the South, he
asked Hamilton to respond to his letter as soon as possible.
Even before receiving Washington’s complaints, Hamilton had implored him
to soldier on as president for another year or two. The failure to do so, he stressed,
would be “deplored as the greatest evil that could befall the country at the present
juncture.”57 Reading Washington’s psychology astutely, Hamilton emphasized the
damage that would be done to Washington’s character if he retired. By now Hamilton had declared all-out warfare against Jefferson and Madison. In the Gazette of the
United States that August, he took off the velvet gloves and showed the clenched ﬁst
of steel, charging that the National Gazette had been set up as a vehicle to publicize

A Tissue of Machinations r! 681

Jefferson’s views and that Madison had been the intermediary for bringing Freneau
to his State Department sinecure.
On August 18 the frustrated Hamilton sent Washington a fourteen-thousandword letter, listing his own accomplishments in ofﬁce and defending his policies.
What troubled him was less the criticisms of speciﬁc programs than the character
assassination practiced by his opponents: “I trust that I shall always be able to bear,
as I ought, imputations of errors of judgment, but I acknowledge that I cannot be
entirely patient under charges which impeach the integrity of my public motives or
conduct. I feel that I merit them in no degree and expressions of indignation sometimes escape me in spite of every effort to suppress them.”58
At this point Washington could no longer stand aside while Hamilton and Jefferson tore each other to ribbons. He warned Edmund Randolph that if press diatribes against his cabinet members continued, “it will be impossible . . . for any man
living to manage the helm or to keep the machine together.”59 His vision of a uniﬁed
government now seemed hopelessly utopian. In late August he exhorted Hamilton
to end his bloody clash with Jefferson. Asking for civility, he hoped that “wounding suspicions and irritating charges” would give way to “mutual forbearances and
temporizing yieldings on all sides. Without these, I do not see how . . . the union of
the states can be much longer preserved.”60 Searching for common ground, Washington hinted that Hamilton and Jefferson had “the same general objects in view
and the same upright intentions to prosecute them.”61 To underline his support
for Hamilton, Washington invited him to Mount Vernon and ended by saying that
Hamilton could rest assured of his “sincere and affectionate regard.”62 Aiming to
be impartial, Washington also admonished Jefferson to end the squabbling, noting
that attacks on his administration—attacks Jefferson himself had orchestrated—
had “for a long time past ﬁlled me with painful sensations.”63
On September 9 Hamilton wrote to Washington that he was the injured party
to the dispute and that the day would soon come “when the public goodwill will
require substitutes for the differing members of your administration.”64 For the ﬁrst
time, Hamilton singled out Jefferson as his adversary and accused him of starting
the National Gazette to sabotage his ﬁscal program: “I know that I have been an object of uniform opposition from Mr. Jefferson from the ﬁrst moment of his coming
to the city of New York to enter upon his present ofﬁce.”65 Although Hamilton and
Jefferson were often on their best behavior when dealing with Washington, they
were now like two rowdy, boisterous students, brawling in the schoolyard whenever the headmaster turned his back. Far from desisting in his broadsides against
Jefferson, Hamilton, under the pen name “Catullus,” commenced a new series of
newspaper essays, disputing that the Federalists were plotting to abolish the republic. Turning the tables, Hamilton said it was the Republicans, led by Jefferson, who

682

r! The Pr esident

were engaged in a conspiracy to undermine the government. He even made veiled
references to Jefferson’s being a closet libertine, perhaps hinting at secret knowledge
of his relations with his slave concubine, Sally Hemings.
The same day that Hamilton wrote to Washington to defend his conduct, Jefferson at Monticello did likewise. In an unusually long and heated letter, Jefferson
charged that Hamilton had duped him into supporting his schemes and had trespassed on State Department matters by meeting with French and British ministers. He admitted hiring Freneau but made it seem as if Freneau had initiated the
contact, and he swore that he had no inﬂuence over the National Gazette. This may
have been technically true, since Jefferson turned to surrogates, especially Madison,
for his political dirty work. The supreme populist of early American history then
slandered Hamilton, the self-made immigrant, with the hauteur of a born aristocrat chastising a pushy upstart: “I will not suffer my retirement to be clouded by
the slanders of a man whose history, from the moment at which history can stoop
to notice him, is a tissue of machinations against the liberty of the country which
has not only received and given him bread, but heaped its honors on his head.”66
Clearly, Washington’s efforts to arbitrate a truce between his warring cabinet chieftains had failed, but he never wavered in his effort to terminate the intrigue.
As Washington wrestled with the problem of whether to remain as president,
he was preoccupied by the fading health of his nephew George Augustine, who had
grown so weak that summer that he was spitting up blood and could scarcely walk.
By early August he was conﬁned to his room at Mount Vernon, and Washington did
not expect him to survive much longer. If he recovered his strength, he would probably require a quiet interlude in some milder climate. His illness returned Washington’s thoughts to the management of Mount Vernon and made him eager to
reassert control of his neglected business affairs.
On October 1, 1792, Washington, still at Mount Vernon, met with Jefferson before breakfast in yet another attempt to thrash out their differences. Still wavering
about a second term, Washington cited his dislike of “the ceremonies of his ofﬁce”
and said his nephew’s plight made his presence at Mount Vernon desirable.67 For
the ﬁrst time Washington seemed to lean toward a second term, however, remarking that “if his aid was thought necessary to save the cause to which he had devoted
his life principally, he would make the sacriﬁce of a longer continuance.”68 Jefferson
stated that only Washington could rise above partisan wrangling and fortify the
government. Washington confessed that, while he had been aware of political differences between Jefferson and Hamilton, “he had never suspected it had gone so
far in producing a personal difference and he wished he could be the mediator to
put an end to it.”69 In spite of everything, Washington wanted to retain Jefferson in
the cabinet and maintain an ideological balance.

A Tissue of Machinations r! 683

Until this point the discussion had been cordial. But now an exasperated Washington, fed up with conspiracy theories, squarely told Jefferson that “as to the idea
of transforming this government into a monarchy, he did not believe there were
ten men in the U.S. whose opinions were worth attention who entertained such a
thought,”70 as Jefferson noted his words. This was tough language, tantamount to
branding Jefferson a crackpot, and unlike anything Washington ever said to Hamilton. The secretary of state replied with stiff dignity: “I told him there were many
more than he imagined . . . I told him that tho[ugh] the people were sound, there
was a numerous sect who had monarchy in contemplation, that the Sec[retar]y of
the Treasury was one of these.”71 Here the two men encountered a fundamental
difference that could not be bridged. When Jefferson again talked about Hamilton corrupting the legislature, with many in Congress owning government paper,
Washington described the problem as unavoidable “unless we were to exclude particular descriptions of men, such as the holders of the funds, from all ofﬁce.”72 The
president saw the real test of the funding system as its effectiveness and “that for
himself, he had seen our affairs desperate and our credit lost and that this was in a
sudden and extraordinary degree raised to the highest pitch.”73
At this point Jefferson must have realized that he had irrevocably lost the battle
for George Washington’s soul to Alexander Hamilton. In his memo on the talk, he
simply wrote in defeat at this point, “I avoided going further into the subject.”74
After this meeting the obdurate Jefferson never unburdened himself so openly to
Washington again, and a coolness entered their relationship. In his diary, Jefferson
speculated that the president’s mind was weakened by age and said that he showed
“a willingness to let others act and even think for him.”75
Back in Philadelphia in mid-October, Washington again tried to negotiate a
truce between Hamilton and Jefferson. At moments he seemed genuinely bafﬂed by
their intransigence, as if he could not believe that men of goodwill could not work
out their differences. Perhaps the decisive stroke in convincing Washington to run
for a second term came after a meeting with Eliza Powel that November, in which
Washington said he might resign. In a masterly seven-page follow-up letter, Powel,
a conﬁrmed Federalist, gave Washington the high-toned reasons he needed to stay
in ofﬁce, shrewdly playing on his anxious concern for his historic reputation. If he
stepped down now, she wrote, his enemies would say that “ambition had been the
moving spring of all your actions—that the enthusiasm of your country had gratiﬁed your darling passion to the extent of its ability and that, as they had nothing
more to give, you would run no farther risk for them.” She warned that the Jeffersonians would dissolve the Union: “I will venture to assert that, at this time, you are
the only man in America that dares to do right on all public occasions.”76 Evidently
she managed to convince Washington, who decided to stand for a second term.

ch ap ter fif t y-si x

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Citizen Genet

O nc e h e de c i de d to serve a second term, George Washington was reelected
by a unanimous 132 votes in the Electoral College. If one counted his selection as
commander in chief, president of the Constitutional Convention, and president
in his ﬁrst term, he had compiled a string of four straight unanimous victories.
Again inaction had been his most potent form of action, silence his most effective form of expression. Still, it was a subdued triumph for the overburdened
president, who confessed to Henry Lee that he “would have experienced chagrin
if my re-election had not been by a pretty respectable vote. But to say I feel pleasure from the prospect of commencing another tour of duty would be a departure
from truth.”1
On December 13, 1792, Washington conversed with Jefferson about buying
porcelain in Germany to dress up the presidential table. He had inquired whether
Samuel Shaw, the U.S. consul at Canton, could acquire china there, but Shaw told
him that it would take at least two years to arrive. Washington emphasized to Jefferson that he would be gone from ofﬁce by then, and Jefferson recognized the
heavy-handed hint. “I think he asked the question about the manufactories in Germany,” Jefferson concluded, “merely to have an indirect opportunity of telling me
he meant to retire, and within the limits of two years.”2 Once again, if he thought
he could cut short his captivity to public service, Washington was fooling himself,
and people kept reminding him how much the Union needed him. “There is a prevailing idea in G[reat] B[ritain],” wrote one correspondent, “if not in other parts
of Europe, that whenever you are removed, the federal union will be dissolved, the
states will separate, and disorder succeed.”3

Citizen Genet r! 685

With a presidential victory assured for Washington, the Jeffersonians tried to
register their disaffection and covertly chip away at his power by ousting John Adams as vice president. Purely as a matter of propriety, Washington never openly
endorsed Adams, who retained ofﬁce with 77 votes against a stiff challenge from
Governor George Clinton of New York, a ﬁrm Jeffersonian, who garnered 50 votes.
Washington likewise worried that, if he got involved in congressional races, he
might trespass on the separation of powers. This same reasoning made him reluctant to veto legislation, and he did not overrule a bill until April 1792. As their
populist rhetoric led to signiﬁcant inroads among farmers, shopkeepers, and artisans, Republican adherents gained a clear majority in the House of Representatives,
guaranteeing a contentious second term for Washington.
A notable feature of that term would be an end to Washington’s special exemption from direct criticism. That winter the new landscape was previewed when
Freneau took direct shots at Washington in the National Gazette, accusing him of
aping royalty in his presidential etiquette. He published a mock advertisement for a
fawning poet laureate who would write obsequious birthday odes to the president.
Even Washington’s habit of not shaking hands received a sinister slant: “A certain
monarchical prettiness must be highly extolled, such as levees, drawing rooms, stately
nods instead of shaking hands, titles of ofﬁce, seclusion from the people.”4 It would
now be open season for sweeping attacks on Washington.
However trying he often found the press, Washington understood its importance in a democracy and voraciously devoured gazettes. Before becoming president, he had lauded newspapers and magazines as “easy vehicles of knowledge,
more happily calculated than any other to preserve the liberty . . . and meliorate
the morals of an enlightened and free people.”5 In his unused ﬁrst inaugural address, he had gone so far as to advocate free postal service for periodicals. As press
criticism mounted, however, Washington struggled to retain his faith in an independent press. In October 1792 he told Gouverneur Morris that he regretted that
newspapers exaggerated political discontent in the country, but added that “this
kind of representation is an evil w[hi]ch must be placed in opposition to the inﬁnite beneﬁts resulting from a free press.”6 A month later, in a more somber mood,
he warned Jefferson that Freneau’s invective would yield pernicious results: “These
articles tend to produce a separation of the Union, the most dreadful of calamities;
and whatever tends to produce anarchy, tends, of course, to produce a resort to
monarchical government.”7
To an unusual extent, early American politics was played out in print—one
reason the founding generation of politicians was so literate. Publications were
avowedly partisan and made no pretense of objectivity. It was a golden age for
wielding words as rapier-sharp political weapons. The penchant for writing essays

686

r! The Pr esident

under Roman pseudonyms, designed to underscore the writer’s republican virtues,
lent a special savagery to journalism, freeing authors from any obligation to tone
down their rhetoric.
For all his years in public service, Washington never developed a thick rind for
the cut-and-thrust of politics, and Freneau’s barbed comments stung him to the
core. As Jefferson wrote after one talk with Washington that February, the president
had bemoaned the “extreme wretchedness of his existence while in ofﬁce and went
lengthily into the late attacks on him for levees &c.”8 One wonders whether Washington was implicitly blaming Jefferson for Freneau’s bruising critiques. Another
newspaper tormenting the embattled president in his second term was the General
Advertiser, later the Aurora, published by Benjamin Franklin Bache, whose scurrilous attacks on Washington earned him the nickname of “Lightning Rod, Jr.”9
Like Freneau, Bache made the modest presidential levees sound like lavish scenes
of decadence from Versailles. Shameless in maligning Washington, Bache even accused him of incompetence during the Revolutionary War and, in the ultimate
outrage, doubted that he had supported American independence. “I ask you, sir,”
he confronted Washington in an open letter, “to point out one single act which
unequivocally proves you a friend to the independence of america.”10 Washington dismissed Bache as an “agent or tool” of those out to destroy conﬁdence in the
government.11
A president who carefully tended his image found it hard to see it falsely deﬁned
by his enemies. And a man who prided himself on his honesty and integrity found it
painful to stare down a rising tide of falsehoods, misrepresentations, and distortions
about his record. His opponents struck where he was most sensitive—questioning
his sense of honor and accusing him of base motives, when he had spent a lifetime
defending himself against charges, both real and imaginary, of being motivated by
thinly disguised ambition. Pilloried by an increasingly vituperative press, Washington did not respond publicly to criticism at ﬁrst, having once said that “to persevere
in one’s duty and be silent is the best answer to calumny.”12 By the summer of 1793,
however, he feared that falsehoods circulating in the press would take root and had
to be rebutted aggressively. “The publications in Freneau’s and Bache’s papers are
outrages on common decency,” he complained to Henry Lee, noting that their allegations only grew more ﬂagrant when treated with silence.13
The vendetta against Washington’s administration took a bold new turn in
January 1793, when Congressman William Branch Giles of Virginia launched an
investigation of the Treasury Department and sought to oust Hamilton for ofﬁcial
misconduct. Giles was an intimate of Jefferson, who secretly helped to draft the
congressional resolutions condemning his fellow cabinet ofﬁcer. Although Giles
accused Hamilton of shufﬂing money dishonestly from one government account

Citizen Genet r! 687

to another, the subsequent congressional investigation thoroughly vindicated the
secretary. On March 1, 1793, all nine of Giles’s resolutions against Hamilton were
resoundingly defeated.
That winter, Washington’s gloom deepened with the death of George Augustine
Washington on February 5, leaving his widow, Fanny, with three small children. Penning a tender note to Fanny, the president invited her to live at Mount Vernon: “You
can go no place where you will be more welcome, nor to any where you can live at
less expense or trouble.”14 Though Fanny declined, the gesture typiﬁed Washington’s exceptional generosity in family matters. Among his many duties, Washington
became executor of his nephew’s estate. As he brooded about the decaying state of
his farms, he would never again have someone he trusted so totally with his affairs
as George Augustine. The death also dealt a terrible blow at a moment when he worried about the future of his business. To David Humphreys, he confessed that “the
love of retirement grows every day more and more powerful, and the death of my
nephew . . . will, I apprehend, cause my private concerns to suffer very much.”15
As Washington approached his second inaugural on March 4, the National Gazette stepped up attacks on what it derided as presidential pretension. The sneering
Freneau served up heaps of abuse about Washington’s birthday celebration—
widely honored in Philadelphia—branding it a “monarchical farce” that exhibited
“every species of royal pomp and parade.”16 This tirade may explain the extreme
simplicity of Washington’s second inauguration. With no precedent for swearing
in an incumbent president, Washington asked his cabinet for guidance, and they
suggested a public oath at noon in the Senate Chamber, administered by Associate Justice William Cushing, whose circuit encompassed Pennsylvania. The cabinet
also advised that “the President go without form, attended by such gentlemen as
he may choose, and return without form, except that he be preceded by the marshal.”17 Perhaps to advertise his lack of ostentation, Washington went alone in his
carriage to Congress Hall, strode into the Senate Chamber with minimal fanfare,
and delivered the shortest inaugural speech on record—a compact 135 words—in a
ceremony intended as the antithesis of monarchical extravagance. As the Pennsylvania Gazette reported, after taking the oath, the president retired “as he had come,
without pomp or ceremony. But on his departure from [Congress Hall], the people
could no longer refrain [from] obeying the genuine dictates of their hearts, and
they saluted him with three cheers.”18

Wa sh i ngt on ’s se c on d t e r m, a period of domestic strife, was dominated
by the French Revolution and its profound reverberations in American politics. In
March 1792, during a short-lived burst of optimism, Lafayette had reassured Wash-

68 8

r! The Pr esident

ington that the anarchy in France was transitory: “Do not believe . . . my dear General, the exaggerated accounts you may receive, particularly from England.”19 That
spring Austria and Prussia, bent upon snufﬁng out the revolutionary upstarts in
Paris, invited England, Holland, and Russia to participate in an alliance of imperial
states. Then in late April, France declared war against Austria and Prussia; they returned the favor by invading France a few months later. In the resulting atmosphere
of fear and suspicion, the radical Jacobins declared a state of emergency. With formidable courage, Lafayette denounced the Jacobins to the National Assembly: “Organized like a separate empire in the city . . . this sect has formed a separate nation
amidst the French people, usurping their powers and subjugating their representatives . . . I denounce them . . . They would overturn our laws.”20
In August 1792, to Lafayette’s horror, the Jacobins incited a popular insurrection
that included the storming of the Tuileries in Paris and the butchery of the Swiss
Guards defending the palace. The king was abruptly dethroned. Refusing to swear
an oath of allegiance to the civil constitution, nearly 25,000 priests ﬂed the country
amid a horrifying wave of anticlerical violence. A month later Parisian mobs engineered the September Massacres, slaughtering more than fourteen hundred prisoners, many of them aristocrats or royalist priests. Ejected from his military command
and charged with treason, Lafayette ﬂed to Belgium. “What safety is there in a country where Robespierre is a sage, Danton is an honest man, and Marat a God?” he
wondered.21 Arrested by Austrian forces, he spent the next ﬁve years languishing in
ghastly Prussian and Austrian prisons. With cruel irony, he was charged with having clapped the French king in irons and kept him in captivity. While claiming the
rights of an honorary American citizen, Lafayette was conﬁned in a small, ﬁlthy,
vermin-infested cell.
On September 21 France abolished the monarchy and declared itself a republic.
Two weeks later Madame Lafayette informed Washington of her husband’s dreadful plight and thwarted plans to defect to America: “His wish was that I should go
with all our family to join him in England, that we might go and establish ourselves together in America and there enjoy the consoling sight of virtue worthy of
liberty.”22 She pleaded with Washington to dispatch an envoy who might reclaim
her husband in the name of the United States. However distraught he was about
Lafayette, Washington was entangled in a political predicament. He could not afford to antagonize the new French republic, and Lafayette’s name was now anathema among the French revolutionaries. Gouverneur Morris, named minister to
France in early 1792, warned Washington against undertaking any rash actions on
Lafayette’s behalf. “His enemies here are as virulent as ever,” he cautioned.23 For the
moment, the only permissible response was personal charity. Drawing on his own
money, Gouverneur Morris extended 100,000 livres to Lafayette’s wife, while Wash-

Citizen Genet r! 68 9

ington deposited 2,300 guilders from his own funds into an Amsterdam account for
her use. He assured Madame Lafayette that he wasn’t indifferent to her husband’s
plight, “nor contenting myself with inactive wishes for his liberation. My affection
to his nation and to himself are unabated.”24
Developments in France only aggravated the growing discord in American politics. Regarding the French revolutionaries as kindred spirits, Republicans rejoiced
at the downfall of the Bourbon dynasty, while Federalists, dreading popular anarchy, dwelled on the grisly massacres. The fate of France was more than an academic
question after it promulgated its Edict of Fraternity, promising fraternal support
to revolutionary states around the globe. Amid this revolutionary camaraderie, in
August 1792 the French conferred honorary citizenship upon Washington, Hamilton, Madison, and Thomas Paine. For Jeffersonians, it fulﬁlled their fondest dream
of a worldwide democratic revolution, while Federalists found the universal dream
disturbing. Alexander Hamilton protested, “Every nation has a right to carve out its
own happiness in its own way.”25 Among the imperial powers, the Edict of Fraternity
generated widespread fear of subversion, sharpening tensions throughout Europe.
On January 21, 1793, the former King Louis XVI, who had helped win American independence, was decapitated before a crowd of twenty thousand people intoxicated with a lust for revenge. After stufﬁng the king’s head between his legs, the
executioner ﬂung his remains into a rude cart piled with corpses, while bystanders
dipped souvenirs into the royal blood pooled under the guillotine. Vendors soon
hawked patches of the king’s clothing and locks of bloodstained hair, in a spectacle
of sadistic glee that shocked many people inside and outside France. On February 1
France declared war on Great Britain and Holland.
Thomas Jefferson seemed unfazed by the regicide and the large-scale massacres
preceding it. After William Short wrote of horrifying beheadings in Paris, Jefferson
saw little cause for alarm. “My own affections have been deeply wounded by some
of the martyrs to this cause,” he conceded, then added cold-bloodedly, “but rather
than it should have failed, I would have seen half the earth desolated. Were there
but an Adam and Eve left in every country, and left free, it would be better than it is
now.”26 Persuaded that tales of French atrocities were propaganda exploited by Federalists, Jefferson became an apologist for the burgeoning horrors of the Jacobins.
“I begin to consider them the true revolutionary spirit of the whole nation,” he told
Madison.27 Madison also viewed the revolution through rose-colored spectacles.
While Washington and Hamilton refused to acknowledge their election as honorary French citizens, Madison sent back a warmly fraternal response, extolling the
“sublime truths and precious sentiments recorded in the revolution of France.”28
Washington hoped to win respectability from foreign powers, but he also wanted
to stay free of foreign entanglements so the young nation could prosper. He gave

690

r! The Pr esident

Gouverneur Morris a succinct formulation of his credo: “My primary objects . . .
have been to preserve the country in peace, if I can, and to be prepared for war, if I
cannot.”29 In general, he favored economic rather than political involvement with
the outside world. This neutrality policy was practical in that the United States was
too small to exert signiﬁcant leverage among the great powers and high-minded
enough to shy away from European balance-of-power politics. Washington had no
desire to exploit wrangling among foreign states, telling Morris that “this country is
not guided by such narrow and mistaken policy as will lead it to wish the destruction of any nation under an idea that our importance will be increased in proportion as that of others is lessened.”30 As war convulsed Europe, Washington, a former
war hero, might have been tempted to become a warlike president, but he wisely
abjured the use of force at this ﬁrst serious threat.
In early April, while vacationing at Mount Vernon, Washington received a letter from Hamilton in Philadelphia, announcing that England and France were at
war. In forwarding instructions to Jefferson, Washington left no doubt of his desire
for unconditional American neutrality: “War having actually commenced between
France and Great Britain, it behooves the government of this country to use every
means in its power to prevent the citizens thereof from embroiling us with either
of those powers by endeavoring to maintain a strict neutrality.”31 As he rushed back
to the capital, he asked Jefferson to draw up a document spelling out the terms of
neutrality. Washington was especially concerned that American ships might be recruited as privateers to prey on British vessels, luring the country into war.
After the abortive attempt by Giles to expel him from ofﬁce, Hamilton was not
eager to defer to Jefferson and turned to Chief Justice Jay for advice on drafting a
neutrality proclamation. Even though Jefferson complained bitterly about Hamilton’s meddling in affairs of state, Washington did not always segregate foreign
policy matters. Back in Philadelphia on April 18, he addressed thirteen questions on
the crisis to all his department heads. The ﬁrst two were the most urgent: Should
the United States issue a declaration of neutrality, and should it receive a minister from the French republic? Ever alert to Hamilton’s unseen inﬂuence, Jefferson
noted that while the handwriting was Washington’s, “the language was Hamilton’s
and the doubts his alone.”32
At a cabinet meeting the next day, the thirteen questions spurred a brisk exchange between Jefferson and Hamilton. Sympathetic to the French Revolution,
Jefferson opposed an immediate neutrality declaration, preferring to have England and France bid for American favor. Thunderstruck at the notion of auctioning American honor, Hamilton favored an immediate declaration. Their dispute
hinged on fundamentally disparate views of what America owed France for her
wartime assistance. Like many Americans, Jefferson thought the United States

Citizen Genet r! 6 91

should embrace a longtime ally and honor the 1778 treaties with France, while
Hamilton deemed them invalid because they had involved only a defensive alliance
and had been signed by the now-beheaded Louis XVI. “Knox subscribed at once to
H[amilton]’s opinion that we ought to declare the treaty void, acknowledging at the
same time, like a fool as he is, that he knew nothing about it,” an embittered Jefferson wrote.33 Hamilton contended that France had aided the American Revolution
only to undercut the British Empire. He won the debate about issuing a neutrality
proclamation, and agreement to receive a minister from the French Republic was
unanimous.
Drafted by Attorney General Randolph, the neutrality proclamation signed on
April 22, 1793, was a monumental achievement for Washington’s administration.
This milestone of foreign policy, which refrained from employing the word neutrality, exhorted Americans to “pursue a conduct friendly and impartial toward the
belligerent powers” and simultaneously warned them against “committing, aiding
or abetting hostilities against any of the said powers” or carrying contraband articles.34 Washington, a hardheaded realist, believed devoutly in neutrality and never
doubted that nations are governed by their interests, not by their emotions.
This proud, courageous proclamation became a centerpiece of foreign policy
for the next century, but it had no shortage of congressional critics. In a key assertion of executive power—denigrated by Republicans as a royal edict—Washington
had bypassed the Senate, refusing to call it into session. Many in Congress reasoned
that, if Congress had the power to declare war, it also had the power to declare neutrality. Many Americans had difﬁculty countenancing an end to the French alliance.
Madison was especially disturbed by what he deemed a violation of congressional
prerogatives, a betrayal of Franco-American ties, and capitulation to “the unpopular
cause of Anglomany.”35 He feared that the president would abuse war-making powers: “The constitution supposes, what the history of all governments demonstrates,
that the executive is the branch of power most interested in war, and most prone to
use it,” he wrote. “It has accordingly, with studied care, vested the question of war in
the legislature.”36 Executive power in foreign affairs would grow steadily during the
next two centuries, perhaps conﬁrming the truth of Madison’s warning.
As England and France studied the exact meaning of American neutrality, the
proclamation prompted a signiﬁcant constitutional debate. Writing under the pen
names of “Paciﬁcus” and “Helvidius,” respectively, Hamilton and Madison sparred
over its legality; Hamilton claimed executive branch primacy in foreign policy, while
Madison made the case for the legislature. Unless he deliberately feigned ignorance,
Washington had little inkling that the secretive Madison had led the charge against
his neutrality policy. “The president is extremely anxious to know your sentiments
on the proclamation,” Jefferson conﬁded to Madison in early August. “He has asked

692

r! The Pr esident

me several times. I tell him you are so absorbed in farming, that you write to me
always about plows, rotations, etc.”37
The political ramiﬁcations of the quarrel over the neutrality proclamation were
no less far-reaching than the constitutional ones. The dispute over supporting England versus France further polarized an already divided country, and the Republicans sensed, with some satisfaction, that they could capitalize on a deep-seated
attachment to France. “The war between France and England seems to be producing an effect not contemplated,” Jefferson observed to Monroe in May in a tone of
pleasant surprise. “All the old spirit of 1776 is rekindling.”38
Bringing the controversy to full boil was the arrival in Charleston, South Carolina, on April 8 of the new French minister, Edmond-Charles Genet, who incarnated the new militance of French foreign policy following the king’s deposition.
French radicals had taken to hailing each other as citoyen and citoyenne (“citizen”
and “citizeness”) to supplant the bourgeois terminology of monsieur and madame,
so the new minister became known as Citizen Genet. Gouverneur Morris had already predicted that Washington would ﬁnd him insufferable and see in him “at the
ﬁrst blush, the manner and look of an upstart.”39 Only thirty years old, well versed
in music and foreign languages, with a personality as ﬂamboyant as his ﬂaming red
hair, Genet had already rendered diplomatic service in London and St. Petersburg.
Dispensing with diplomatic niceties, he would take ﬂagrant liberties and brazenly
interfere in American politics.
The rabble-rousing diplomat lost no time in trying to nullify the neutrality
proclamation. He set about converting American ships into privateers, manned
by American and French sailors, hoping they would pounce on British merchant
vessels and bring them into American ports as prizes of war. He also tried to recruit Americans to inﬁltrate Spanish and British possessions in Louisiana, Florida,
and Canada and instigate uprisings. The dizzying acclaim that greeted Genet in
Charleston foreshadowed his reception as he worked his way north to Philadelphia.
More than a month elapsed before he presented his credentials to Washington; in
the meantime he engaged in open politicking along the eastern seaboard, to the delight of Francophile citizens. But to the horror of Federalists, this brash, impetuous
man, prone to grand pronouncements, drew huge throngs as he disseminated the
messianic message of the French Revolution.
As Washington braced for his advent, he adopted a ﬁnely calibrated policy to
suit both Hamilton and Jefferson. He would receive Genet, to please Jefferson, but
without “too much warmth or cordiality,” to satisfy Hamilton.40 On May 16 Genet
arrived in Philadelphia to an enthusiastic popular response. When he addressed a
large crowd at the City Tavern, it reacted with hearty shouts and salutations. Slow to
perceive Genet’s folly or the way he overplayed his hand, Jefferson at ﬁrst saw only

Citizen Genet r! 6 93

another grand chapter of the democratic revolution unfolding. “He offers everything and asks nothing” was his early estimate of the ambassador.41 When Jefferson
presented Genet to Washington, the president received him at the executive mansion with the touch of coolness already decided upon.
The Frenchman’s mere presence in Philadelphia opened ﬂoodgates of press criticism. Continuing its vendetta against the president, the National Gazette blasted
Washington for toadying to England and showing base ingratitude toward France,
complaining that the United States should not “view with cold indifference the
struggles of those very friends to support their own liberties against an host of
despots.”42 A few days later, in an open letter to Washington, the paper accused him
of being isolated from the masses while surrounding himself with sycophants. “Let
not the little buzz of the aristocratic few and their contemptible minions,” read the
letter, “of speculators, Tories, and British emissaries, be mistaken for the exalted and
general voice of the American people. The spirit of 1776 is again roused.”43 It was an
extraordinary declaration, for who embodied the spirit of 1776 more than General
George Washington?
In early June Washington contracted a fever, and the press volleys ﬁred against
him only worsened his health. Beneath the tough surface, Washington was easily
wounded. Having long bathed in adulation, he was unaccustomed to such blistering criticism. “Little lingering fevers have been hanging about him, and affected his
looks most remarkably,” Jefferson commented to Madison. He blamed the president’s poor health on the press onslaught: “He is extremely affected by the attacks
made . . . on him in the public papers. I think he feels these things more than any
person I have ever met with. I am sincerely sorry to see them.”44 It was a strange
remark to pass between the two men whose sponsorship had launched the National
Gazette. Jefferson’s self-described sympathy did not prevent him from presiding
over further attacks against Washington, and he condemned the president as isolated, used to “unlimited applause,” and unable to “brook contradiction or even
advice offered unasked.”45
The press slander could only have stiffened Washington’s resolve to step down
after two years, but the hubbub over relations with France kept deferring that day.
As Gouverneur Morris wrote from France, “It will be time enough for you to have
a successor when it shall please God to call you from this world’s theater.”46 Oddly
enough, both Hamilton and Jefferson also yearned to retire from the public stage.
As he admitted to Madison, Jefferson felt worn down by the political backstabbing:
“The motion of my blood no longer keeps time with the tumult of the world.”47
In February, when Washington asked him if he would serve as minister to France,
Jefferson declined, citing his wish to retire to Monticello. In response, an irritable
Washington grumbled that he himself had refused to retire.

6 94

r! The Pr esident

One inescapable issue created by Genet was what to do about British ships
brought into American ports as “prizes” captured by French privateers. In early
May the French ship Embuscade docked in Philadelphia with two British merchant
ships in tow. According to Jefferson, thousands of jubilant Philadelphians rent the
air with “peals of exultation” when they set eyes on the captured vessels. Except for
Jefferson, Washington and his cabinet members were appalled by Genet’s action in
outﬁtting privateers in American ports. On June 5 Jefferson warned Genet to desist
from this practice and stop luring Americans into such service. Still intoxicated
from the cheering crowds, the deluded Genet ignored the warning and turned one
captured British merchant ship, the Little Sarah, into an armed French privateer
christened La Petite Démocrate. The high-handed Frenchman then informed Jefferson that France had the right to outﬁt such ships in American ports. Echoing
the Jeffersonian press, he dared to imply that Washington was “subservient to a
Federalist party . . . whose only aim is to establish Monocracy in this country.”48
Hamilton, bristling, termed this letter “the most offensive paper perhaps that ever
was offered by a foreign minister to a friendly power with which he resided.”49 Citizen Genet, oblivious of his blunder, informed his superiors at home of his triumph
over Washington: “Everything has succeeded beyond my hopes: the true Republicans triumph, but old Washington, le vieux Washington, a man very different from
the character emblazoned in history, cannot forgive me for my successes and the
eagerness with which the whole city rushed to my house, while a mere handful of
English merchants rushed to congratulate him on his proclamation.”50
The National Gazette parroted Genet’s charges. In a July 4 column signed “A
Citizen,” the author noted that only three hundred people had come to applaud
Washington’s neutrality declaration while thousands cheered Genet in Charleston.
Still more seriously, the author lectured Washington that, on this birthday of independence, he had relinquished his heroic standing from Revolutionary days: “There
was a time when your name occupied an elevated position in the minds of your
countrymen and your character was beloved by every genuine son of America . . .
But alas! What an astonishing revolution has a few years of peace produced in the
sentiments of your countrymen?”51
As if he didn’t have troubles enough, Washington had to make a sudden return
to Mount Vernon to cope with the death of Anthony Whitting, who had replaced
George Augustine as manager of Mount Vernon. The president, at his wit’s end, complained that “my concerns at Mount Vernon are left as a body without a head.”52
On July 8, while Washington was at Mount Vernon, the cabinet discussed what
to do about La Petite Démocrate, anchored in the Delaware River. Hamilton and
Knox wanted to fortify Mud Island, farther down the Delaware, to intercept the
ship if it tried to sail—advice rejected by Jefferson. Two days later Jefferson took

Citizen Genet r! 6 95

up the matter with Genet, who assured him that the renegade ship would stay put
until Washington returned. Swollen with power, Genet also threatened, in a grave
violation of diplomatic protocol, to appeal over Washington’s head to the American
people to overturn the neutrality policy. Washington was incensed over Genet’s
conduct, which brought to the surface his bottled-up rage against Jefferson. He
ﬂatly asked his secretary of state: “Is the minister of the French Republic to set the
acts of this government at deﬁance—with impunity and then threaten the executive
with an appeal to the people?”53 Struggling with a fever, Jefferson relayed to Washington Genet’s assurance that the ship would stay put until Washington determined
its fate. Within a day or two Genet violated his promise as La Petite Démocrate
slipped past Mud Island and ﬂed out to sea, in a ﬂagrant breach of American neutrality. The beleaguered president, weary of the tussle between the French and British ministers, told Henry Lee that since his return to Philadelphia “I have been
more than ever overwhelmed with their complaints. In a word, the trouble they give
is hardly to be described.”54
In the absence of a Justice Department, Washington intermittently turned to
Chief Justice Jay for legal advice. In July the cabinet sent Jay twenty-nine queries to
clarify the meaning of neutrality and rule on American jurisdiction over the French
seizure of ships in American waters. On August 8, replying on behalf of the Supreme Court, Jay declined to render an advisory opinion. The Constitution, he said,
had set up three independent branches of government, and it would be improper
for “judges of a court in the last resort” to issue an opinion that could be accepted or
rejected by the president.55 This decision set a major precedent, placing a protective
barrier between the presidency and an independent judiciary and sharply deﬁning
lines that had hitherto been indistinct. In lieu of the Court’s opinion, Washington’s cabinet issued a set of rules governing the conduct of belligerents, prohibiting
them from arming privateers or bringing prizes captured in American waters into
American ports.
Genet’s conduct stirred up a tempest in Philadelphia, and howling mobs of his
supporters marched on the presidential mansion. “The town is one continuous
scene of riot,” the British consul reported. “French seamen range the streets night
and day with cutlasses and commit the most daring outrages. Genet seems ready
to raise the tricolor and proclaim himself proconsul.”56 This British hyperbole was
corroborated by John Adams, years later, in a letter to Jefferson: “You certainly never
felt the terrorism excited by Genet in 1793 when ten thousand people in the streets
of Philadelphia, day after day, threatened to drag Washington out of his house and
effect a revolution in the government or compel it to declare war in favor of the
French Revolution and against England.”57
Against this backdrop Washington convened a tense cabinet session on July 23

696

r! The Pr esident

to discuss whether there was a way to demand Genet’s recall without insulting
France. Refusing to be swayed by the Frenchman’s blackmail, he thought Genet’s
intemperate letters should be shown to the French. Hamilton seized on the occasion to ﬂoat his theory that a “faction” wished to “overthrow” the government and
that, to stop people from joining these “incendiaries,” the administration should
disclose the whole story of Genet’s insolent conduct.58 Of course, Hamilton knew
that the chief instigator of that faction sat right there in the room: Thomas Jefferson. At this point even Jefferson concluded that Genet was “absolutely incorrigible”
and was harming the Republican cause.59 After repeated brushes with Genet, Jefferson described him in these caustic terms: “Hot-headed, all imagination, no judgment, passionate, disrespectful and even indecent toward the president.”60
By this point the vicious cabinet inﬁghting was tearing Washington apart. No
sooner had he agreed to serve a second term than he regretted it. He was staggered
by the rabid abuse spewed out by the Republican press. During his presidency, many
newspapers had gone from being staid and neutral to being organs of party politics
and propaganda. In May he asked Jefferson to dismiss Freneau from his State Department job after the editor made the nonsensical statement that Washington had
issued the neutrality statement only after “Anglomen” had threatened to chop off
his head. Jefferson resisted the presidential request. Then at a memorable cabinet
meeting on August 2, Henry Knox brought a copy of a Freneau squib entitled “The
Funeral Dirge of George Washington and James Wilson, King and Judges.” Knox
showed the president a savage satirical cartoon in which his head was being inserted
in a guillotine, as if he were Louis XVI. It triggered a volcanic display of Washington’s temper. The graphic scene was recorded by Jefferson:
The President was much inﬂamed; got into one of those passions when he cannot
command himself; ran on much on the personal abuse which has been bestowed on
him; deﬁed any man on earth to produce one single act of his since he had been in
the government which was not done on the purest motives; [said] that he had never
repented but once the having slipped the moment of resigning his ofﬁce and that
was every moment since; that by God he had rather be in his grave than in his present
situation; that he had rather be on his farm than to be made emperor of the world; and
yet they were charging him with wanting to be a king. That that rascal Freneau sent
him three of his papers every day, as if he thought he would become the distributor
of his paper; that he could see in this nothing but an impudent design to insult him.
He ended in this high tone.61

So concerned was Henry Knox about Washington’s nervous strain that he sat
down three days later to compose a letter on the need for the president to pull him-

Citizen Genet r! 6 9 7

self together and project an aura of calm fortitude: “The prudent and sober part
of the community regard, as in the case of a storm, the mind and countenance of
the chief pilot. While he remains conﬁdent and composed, happiness is diffused
around, but, when he doubts, then anxiety and fear have their full effect.”62 It was
a measure of the trust between the two men that Knox could write such an unvarnished message to Washington.
For all the bitter strife in his cabinet, Washington valued the superior talents
of Hamilton and Jefferson and was dismayed at the thought of losing them. On
July 31 Jefferson submitted a letter announcing his intention to leave ofﬁce at the
end of September. A week later Washington stopped by Jefferson’s country house
and made a personal appeal for him to postpone his departure. The president
referred to his own regret at having stayed in ofﬁce, commenting “how much it
was increased by seeing that he was to be deserted by those on whose aid he had
counted.”63 Few men were better versed in foreign affairs or the intrigues of foreign courts than Jefferson, he said. In response, Jefferson alluded to his “excessive
repugnance to public life” and how hard he found it to serve when “merchants
connected closely with England” as well as speculators “bear me peculiar hatred.”64
Washington then tackled head-on the ubiquitous conspiracy theories. He credited
the good intentions of the Republicans and said he understood that sincere people
had fears of a monarchical party. But, he went on, “the constitution we have is an
excellent one, if we can keep it where it is; that it was indeed supposed there was
a party disposed to change it into a monarchical form, but that he could conscientiously declare there was not a man in the U.S. who would set his face more
decidedly against it than himself.”65 Washington successfully cajoled Jefferson into
staying stay in ofﬁce a little longer.
Meanwhile Citizen Genet was not about to depart quietly. In mid-August, when
John Jay and Rufus King revealed in a New York newspaper that Genet had threatened to make a direct appeal to the American people over the president’s head,
the country reacted with righteous indignation. Genet’s intemperance ultimately
proved a bonanza for the Federalists. In late August the cabinet agreed unanimously
to demand his recall and give the French a full accounting of his behavior. As it happened, the Jacobins had already dispatched his successor, Jean-Antoine Fauchet,
who had orders to send Genet home to stand trial for “crimes” against the revolution. Whatever his misgivings about Genet, Washington did not care to send him
to his death and granted him asylum in the United States. The Frenchman married
the daughter of Governor George Clinton and passed the remainder of his days in
upstate New York.
The saga of Citizen Genet had an ongoing afterlife, since his visit spawned a
new form of political club—the so-called Democratic-Republican Societies. Their

698

r! The Pr esident

organizers intended them to evoke the Sons of Liberty chapters, while apprehensive
Federalists found them eerily reminiscent of the French Jacobin clubs. The ﬁrst one
was established in April 1793 in Philadelphia; ten more were formed before year’s
end, and at least two dozen more the next year. Washington always distinguished
between legitimate criticism of government and an illegitimate, “diabolical” sort
that sought to destroy conﬁdence in public servants. Early on, he concluded that
the new societies were of the illegitimate variety, spouting popular rhetoric while
tearing down the fabric of government, “even at the expense of plunging this country in the horrors of a disastrous war.”66 He regarded them as tools of a French plot
to destroy American neutrality and drag the country into war. While he acknowledged their right to protest, he was persuaded that the new societies constituted a
menace because their permanence showed a settled hostility to the government.
Washington’s views on dissent were colored by his political philosophy. Along
with other Federalists, he thought that ofﬁcials, once elected, should apply their superior judgment and experience to make decisions on behalf of the populace. As he
enunciated this position: “My political creed therefore is, to be wise in the choice of
delegates—support them like gentlemen, while they are our representatives—give
them competent powers for all federal purposes—support them in the due exercise
thereof—and, lastly, to compel them to close attendance in Congress during their
delegation.”67 As an extension of this view, Washington believed that voters, having
once elected representatives, should lend them support. He found it difﬁcult to execute the philosophical leap that voters reserved the right to a continuing critique
of their elected ofﬁcials. The Republicans, by contrast, wanted representatives to be
continually responsive to voters and receptive to political criticism.
Some historians have faulted Washington for being intolerant of dissent, but
mitigating circumstances should be cited. The concept of republican government
was new, and nobody knew exactly how much criticism it could withstand. From
the close of the war, Americans had worried about foreign intrusion, especially attempts by European imperial powers to roll back the Revolution, and many members of the new Democratic-Republican Societies openly ﬂaunted their admiration
for the French Revolution. Also, many members of the opposition, most notably
Jefferson, had opposed or felt highly ambivalent about the Constitution, and it was
not unthinkable that they would repudiate it once in power. Washington did not
see himself, as did many critics, as leader of the Federalist party, so the Republicans
struck him as a harmful faction rather than simply the opposing party. Once again
Washington was a transitional ﬁgure who bore many traces of the colonial past
while slowly evolving into the representative of a more egalitarian age.
What is indisputable is that the Democratic-Republican Societies led to a much
more raucous style of American politics. Instead of discussing politics politely at

Citizen Genet r! 6 9 9

dinner tables or in smoky taverns, these groups were likely to take to the streets
in mass rallies. These government critics also had fewer qualms about chastising
their leaders. By the end of 1793 the diatribes against Washington no longer dwelled
simply on his supposed imitation of the crowned heads of Europe. Now the opposition sought to debunk his entire life and tear to shreds the upright image he
had so sedulously fostered. That December, the New-York Journal said that his early
years had been marked by “gambling, reveling, horse racing and horse whipping,”
that he was “infamously niggardly” in business matters, and that despite his feigned
religious devotion, he was a “most horrid swearer and blasphemer.”68 For George
Washington, American politics had become a strange and disorienting new world.

ch ap ter fif t y-sev en

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Bring Out Your Dead

Th e force t h at c o ol ed, at least temporarily, the fervid agitation of the
Democratic-Republican clubs was not political but medical: the yellow fever epidemic that lashed the capital during the summer of 1793. Later on John Adams was
adamant that “nothing but the yellow fever . . . could have saved the United States
from a total revolution of government.”1 One of its ﬁrst victims was a treasured
ﬁgure in the presidential household, Polly Lear, the wife of Washington’s secretary
Tobias, who had assisted Martha with numerous household duties. Martha had converted her into another surrogate daughter, while George valued her as “an amiable
and inoffensive little woman.”2 When Polly died on July 28, age twenty-three, Washington honored her with the sort of full-dress funeral that might have bid farewell to
a cabinet ofﬁcer. Deviating from his strict policy of never attending funerals, he led
a procession that included Hamilton, Jefferson, Knox, and three Supreme Court justices as pallbearers. It was the one time that Washington attended a funeral as president. When Tobias Lear, after a seven-year association with Washington, resigned his
post to make money in business, he was replaced by Martha’s nephew Bartholomew
Dandridge and George’s nephew Howell Lewis. “In whatever place you may be, or in
whatever walk of life you may move,” Washington assured Lear, “my best wishes will
attend you, for I am and always shall be your sincere friend.”3
As August progressed, the yellow fever scourge spread from the wharves to the
city’s interior: victims ran high fevers, spewed black vomit, hemorrhaged blood
from every oriﬁce, and developed jaundice before they expired. By late August the
sights and smells of death saturated the city, especially the groaning carts, stacked
high with corpses, that trundled through the streets as their drivers intoned, “Bring

Bring Out Your Dead r! 7 01

out your dead.”4 To stem the fever, the authorities tried burning barrels of tar, which
polluted the air with a potent, acrid stench. The epidemic was by then carrying
away twenty victims daily. Emptied by spreading panic, most public ofﬁce buildings shut down, and government employees decamped from the city. The Supreme
Court sat for only two days before deciding to swell the general exodus.
Whether from instinctive courage or a stoic belief in death as something foreordained, George Washington again behaved as if endowed with supernatural immunity. He showed the same sangfroid as when bullets whizzed past him during
the French and Indian War. He urged Martha to return with their grandchildren to
Mount Vernon, but she refused to desert him. By early September yellow fever had
taken a grim toll on government workers: six clerks died in the Treasury Department,
seven in the customs service, and three in the Post Ofﬁce. On September 6, upon
learning that Hamilton had shown early symptoms of the fever, Washington rushed
to him six bottles of wine, coupled with a sympathetic message. Treated by his childhood friend Dr. Edward Stevens, Hamilton survived the disease and then ﬂed with his
wife, Elizabeth, to the Schuyler mansion in Albany. Since Martha wouldn’t abandon
him, Washington opted to leave for Mount Vernon on September 10, departing in sufﬁcient haste that he left behind his ofﬁcial papers. He and Martha invited Eliza Powel
to escape with them to Virginia. Though deeply touched by the gesture, Powel decided that she could not abandon her husband, then the speaker of the Pennsylvania
Senate, lest he get sick and require help. “The conﬂict between duty and inclination
is a severe trial of my feelings,” she told the Washingtons, “but, as I believe it is always
best to adhere to the line of duty, I beg to decline the pleasure I proposed to myself in
accompanying you to Virginia at this time.”5 Her caution was prophetic: three weeks
later her husband joined the growing list of fatalities. Ironically, Eliza was off at her
brother’s farm at the time and experienced “a lasting source of afﬂiction” for not having been present at her husband’s bedside at the end.6
After urging him to safeguard the War Department clerks, Washington left
Henry Knox in charge as acting president, with instructions to submit a weekly
report on developments in the now-deserted capital. The doughty Knox was the
last high-ranking ofﬁcial to depart. “All my efﬁcient clerks have left me from apprehension,” Knox reported in mid-September, noting that fatalities in the capital
had zoomed to one hundred per day. “The streets are lonely to a melancholy degree.
The merchants generally have ﬂed . . . In ﬁne, the stroke is as heavy as if an army of
enemies had possessed the city without plundering it.”7 After Jefferson found only
a single clerk toiling at the State Department, he decided it was high time to head
for Virginia. By mid-October 3,500 Philadelphians, or one-tenth of the population,
had succumbed to yellow fever, leaving the city, in Washington’s words, “almost
depopulated by removals and deaths.”8

702

r! The Pr esident

Eager to resume government operations and show that the republic could function even under extreme duress, Washington wanted to convene emergency sessions of Congress outside the capital, but he was unsure of their constitutionality.
To his credit, he did not automatically assume autocratic powers in a crisis but
tried to conform faithfully to the letter of the law. As alternate sites, he considered
several nearby cities, among them Germantown, Wilmington, Trenton, Annapolis,
and Reading. When he stopped at Mount Vernon, Jefferson, a strict constructionist,
gave Washington his opinion that the government could lawfully assemble only in
Philadelphia, even if Congress had to meet in an open ﬁeld. Reluctant to be hamstrung by this restrictive view, Washington turned to the one person guaranteed
to serve up a more liberal view of federal powers: Alexander Hamilton. In tapping
his treasury secretary, Washington hinted broadly at his preferred outcome, telling
him that “as none can take a more comprehensive view and . . . a less partial one on
the subject than yourself . . . I pray you to dilate fully upon the several points here
brought to your consideration.”9 Engaging in fancy semantic footwork, Hamilton
cracked open the legal logjam by saying that Washington could recommend that the
government meet elsewhere, although he couldn’t order it. Hamilton favored Germantown, close to Philadelphia, as the optimal site, and it was duly chosen.
Washington decided to convene a cabinet meeting there in early November. On
October 28 he packed and left Mount Vernon, teamed up with Jefferson in Baltimore, and arrived in Germantown on November 1. The small village was scarcely
impervious to the troubles crippling the nearby capital, and hundreds of Philadelphia refugees milled about, fearful of venturing back to their homes. After renting the meager home of Isaac Franks, Washington had furniture carted out from
Philadelphia. The sage of Monticello was reduced to sleeping in a bed tucked into
the corner of a local tavern. As the weather cooled, the yellow fever epidemic in
Philadelphia waned, although the city would still struggle for months to return
to normal. In early December, amid lightly falling snow, Washington saddled his
horse and returned to a place sadly transformed by disaster. “Black seems to be the
general dress in the city,” Martha noted. “Almost every family has lost some of their
friends.”10 Out of respect for the dead, plays and dances were canceled, and as the
town’s foremost citizen, Washington took the lead in dispensing charity to widows
and orphans left stranded by the epidemic.
Members of Congress were now rapidly ﬂocking back to the capital, and as soon
as Washington learned on December 2 that a quorum had been mustered, he decided
to deliver his ﬁfth annual address to Congress the next day, escorted for the last time
by his ﬁrst-term cabinet, the warring triumvirate of Jefferson, Hamilton, and Knox.
As war raged in Europe, Washington felt the need to combat paciﬁst fantasies and insisted upon the need for sufﬁcient “arms and military stores now in [our] magazine

Bring Out Your Dead r! 7 03

and arsenals.”11 As always, he touted military preparedness as the best way to prevent
war and gently raised the question of whether militias were adequate to the country’s defensive needs. He also defended his neutrality proclamation and explained
the rationale behind the seeming betrayal of the historic French alliance. Beyond its
policy particulars, the speech reafﬁrmed that the government had weathered the yellow fever epidemic and would now revert to some semblance of normality.

Wh i l e t h e t e m p or a ry c a pi ta l suffered from the horrors of yellow fever,
the permanent capital was beginning to emerge in all its splendor. That September
Washington had been on hand in the federal city for the ceremonial laying of the
cornerstone for the U.S. Capitol. Among his endless responsibilities, he was bogged
down in administrative minutiae related to the new capital, having to approve personally, for example, the contract for a bridge over Rock Creek. The Residence Act
of 1790 had stipulated that government buildings in the district should be ready by
December 1800, and an impatient public clamored for visible signs of progress.
Disclaiming any special talent as an architect, Washington nonetheless endorsed
a design for the new home of Congress sketched by Dr. William Thornton, a versatile doctor, inventor, and abolitionist. Thornton came up with a clever amalgam
of classical architecture and modern American themes. Jefferson rejoiced in the
building’s style as “Athenian” and, to emphasize the parallel with antiquity, changed
its name from the plain-sounding Congress House to the far more grandiose Capitol.12 Washington was especially enamored of the dome, which he thought would
lend “beauty and grandeur to the pile,” its visual effect enhanced by a magniﬁcent
colonnade.13 Washington’s approval also helped the Irish architect James Hoban
win the commission for the President’s House, later known as the White House.
“He has been engaged in some of the ﬁrst buildings in Dublin,” Washington wrote
admiringly of Hoban, “appears a master workman, and has a great many hands
of his own.”14 The White House cornerstone was laid on October 13, 1792. As in all
matters pertaining to the capital, Washington wanted an elastic design that would
accommodate future growth. “It was always my idea . . . that the building should
be so arranged that only a part of it should be erected at present,” he told the commissioners, “but upon such a plan as to make the part so erected an entire building,
and to admit of an addition in future.”15 Curiously enough, the Supreme Court was
then held in such low regard that it did not merit its own ediﬁce and had to settle
for a room in the Capitol.
Washington’s strategy of building slowly and allowing for future expansion was
an apt metaphor for his strategy for developing the entire country. An unintended
metaphor perhaps cropped up in the composition of the downtrodden workforce

7 04

r! The Pr esident

laboring to complete the capital. Washington had favored importing indentured
servants to do the building—he praised Germans for their steady work habits, Scots
for their mechanical abilities—but there was no way that a southern capital could
emerge without drawing heavily on slaves, given the local shortage of free labor.
Hundreds of slaves pulled up stumps, leveled trees, made bricks, and scooped out
trenches. Because Congress had authorized no money to acquire property and construct buildings, the project had to subsist on the proceeds of land auctions, and
using slave labor helped cushion the budgetary stringency. By 1795 three hundred
slaves were hard at work in the federal district, hurrying to ﬁnish public or private
buildings.
On September 18, 1793, at Mount Vernon, Washington greeted a ﬁfe and drum
corps from Alexandria and presided over a festive procession to install the cornerstone of the Capitol. After he crossed the Potomac, many Masons gathered to
receive him, appareled in their order’s ceremonial garb. The grand parade to the
Capitol site proceeded under the auspices of Lodge No. 22 of Alexandria and the
Grand Lodge of Maryland and its assorted chapters. Ofﬁciating as Grand Master,
Washington donned the elaborately embroidered Masonic apron that, in happier
times, had been a gift from Lafayette’s wife. To the sharp reports of cannon, Washington stepped into a trench, hoisted a trowel, and spread cement on the cornerstone before pouring oil, corn, and wine over it as spectators offered up Masonic
chants. Incorporated into this southeast corner of the Capitol was a silver plate
engraved with the words “the year of Masonry 5793.”16 That Washington performed
Masonic rituals at the new capital proved not that he was in thrall to a secret society
but probably something more banal: that he believed that the “grand object of Masonry” was “to promote the happiness of the human race,” and that nobody could
possibly object to such an inarguable, community-minded goal.17 After parading
by the President’s House, the gathering settled down to celebrate by dining on the
barbecued remains of a ﬁve-hundred-pound ox.
With the town named after him, Washington was especially solicitous about the
course of its building campaign and bought four lots there. At many points he prodded the three commissioners to speed up their work, insisting that they live in the
federal district to expedite ﬂagging construction. As he surveyed the muddy terrain,
he worried that, should the project lag behind schedule, the southern states might
well lose the capital to the avid boosters of Philadelphia. “The year 1800 is approaching with hasty strides,” he warned. “So ought the public buildings to advance towards
completion.”18 The pace of progress seemed so sluggish that James Madison began
to despair that the capital would ever escape from the great “whirlpool of Philadelphia.”19 Whenever the project stagnated, Washington purchased more parcels to
give things a timely ﬁllip. He preferred selling individual lots to modest investors

Bring Out Your Dead r! 7 0 5

rather than multiple lots to large speculators, persuaded that the former would work
harder to make long-term improvements. At every turn, Washington advanced his
pet project for a national university in the new capital where students could attend
congressional debates and absorb the basic principles of representative government.
It had long disturbed Washington that American students attended universities
abroad, where they might imbibe foreign ideas inimical to a republican polity.

O nc e Wa sh i ngt on agr e e d to serve a second term, the decision only fueled
his apprehension about the state of his business affairs at Mount Vernon. There
had been some improvements during his presidency, most notably the innovative,
sixteen-sided threshing barn that Washington had designed. But in his absence,
despite such scientiﬁc strides, Mount Vernon was overtaken by general decay, and
his letters are replete with long-running complaints about dilapidated buildings,
fences, hedges, barns, gates, and stables needing repair.
Having lost the services of George Augustine and Anthony Whitting, Mount Vernon lacked a guiding hand, and it was all Washington could do to keep the place
running from afar. He never overcame his chronic ﬁnancial anxieties, which only
worsened with the distractions of his political career, and he remained a notably
relentless, hard-driving boss. His incomparable success in life seemed not to soften
his views or lighten his touch with employees, as if his economic insecurity were too
deeply rooted ever to be extirpated. It never seemed to dawn on him to apply the
same courtesy to his employees that he did to colleagues in Philadelphia, where he
was such an exquisitely tactful politician. In December 1792 he badgered Anthony
Whitting to keep a slave named Gunner hard at work, even though Gunner was
probably around eighty-three years old. “It may be proper for Gunner to continue
throwing up brick earth,” the president wrote.20 Despite his theoretical opposition
to slavery, he cautioned his overseers against the “idleness and deceit” of slaves if not
treated with a ﬁrm hand.21
Washington’s business letters home have an unpleasantly caustic tone, as if he
felt himself at the mercy of so many dunces and knaves. He was constantly on guard
against inept overseers, whom he thought too lax in dealing with slaves. If overseers weren’t up with the sun, he warned, slaves would sleep late, loaf, and cost him
money. In essence, the overseers became slaves to the long hours of the slaves they
supervised. In petulant weekly letters to the consumptive Whitting in 1792 and 1793,
Washington scarcely ever offered an encouraging syllable. With painful consistency,
he faulted Whitting’s work, loaded him with advice, and seemed to accuse everyone
of malingering.
In mid-March 1793, as Whitting was spitting up blood, Washington informed

706

r! The Pr esident

Fanny Bassett Washington that the doctors had pronounced his tuberculosis “critical and dangerous.”22 Whitting himself wrote pathetically to the president: “I am
just now able to walk a little. Am very much reduced and very weak.”23 Nonetheless
that spring, as he grappled with neutrality and Citizen Genet, Washington continually lambasted Whitting and talked to him as if he were a fool or a child. When he
thought Whitting did not respond adequately to his questions, he told him to take a
slip of paper, jot down all the instructions, then cross off each item on the checklist
as it was accomplished. At the time Whitting was so weak that he could scarcely
mount a horse; a month later he lay in critical condition. Bedridden, barely able to
speak, he nonetheless fretted about his failure to ﬁle weekly reports with Washington. As Tobias Lear reported from the scene: “Mr. Whitting was much concerned at
your not having received the reports of last week, but observed that he had directed
[James] Butler [the Mansion House overseer] to take them, as he was unable to do
it himself.”24 A few days later the estate manager was dead.
Preoccupied with political problems, Washington was thrown into turmoil by
Whitting’s death and promptly launched a search for a successor, looking for an
honest, sober bachelor between the ages of thirty-ﬁve and forty-ﬁve. Only after
Whitting’s death did Washington learn to appreciate his virtues, telling one correspondent, “If I could get a man as well qualiﬁed for my purposes as the late Mr.
Whitting . . . I sh[oul]d esteem myself very fortunate.”25 Even so, Washington continued to defame Whitting, claiming that he “drank freely, kept bad company at my
house and in Alexandria, and was a very debauched person.”26
In late September, Washington hired William Pearce as the new estate manager
and quickly trained him in his own exacting style, telling him how he liked everything in tip-top shape, humming smoothly along. As with Whitting, he told Pearce
to keep a checklist of his instructions and review them often, “because I expect to
have them complied with or reasons assigned for not doing it.”27
By this point Washington was convinced that Mount Vernon was veering toward
chaos and that he had to crack down on overseers and slaves alike. In the same language he had long used with his military and political associates, he coached Pearce
on how to handle recalcitrant overseers: “To treat them civilly is no more than what
all men are entitled to, but my advice to you is to keep them at a proper distance; for
they will grow upon familiarity in proportion as you will sink in authority, if you do
not.”28 He gave Pearce scathing character sketches of the ﬁve overseers, calling one
“a sickly, slothful, and stupid fellow,” and urging him to correct the abuses that had
crept into the daily workings of Mount Vernon.29 Ironically, the only one of the ﬁve
overseers for whom he spared a kind word was the one black: “Davy at Muddy Hole
carries on his business as well as the white overseers and with more quietness than
any of them. With proper directions, he will do very well.”30

Bring Out Your Dead r! 7 0 7

Priding himself on being a progressive farmer, Washington was frustrated by
his inability to introduce modern methods. When Henry Lee told him about a new
threshing machine, Washington responded that “the utility of it among careless
Negroes and ignorant overseers will depend absolutely upon the simplicity of the
construction, for if there is anything complex in the machinery, it will be no longer
in use than a mushroom is in existence.”31 His letters teem with regrets that his
overseers refused to apply the crop-rotation system that had been his will-o’-thewisp for many years.
Finally, on December 23, 1793, right before Christmas, Washington devoted
a large portion of the day to writing ﬁve consecutive letters to his ﬁve overseers,
blaming them for ruining his hopes for crop rotation and for the general decline of
his business. In terms of pure, unadulterated rage, these ﬁve letters have no equal
in Washington’s papers: they suggest a daylong temper tantrum and show just how
sharp-tongued and frustrated he could be. Their jeering tone is almost willfully
cruel, as if Washington wanted to say things with brutal clarity and telegraph a
tough new regimen. They show how exceedingly anxious he was about his ﬁnancial
position and the economic situation at Mount Vernon. They may also express some
displaced anger from the violent attacks being made on him in the Jeffersonian
press and by the Democratic-Republican Societies. Not mincing words, Washington wrote to overseer Hiland Crow that he had been
so much disturbed at your insufferable neglect [of plowing] that it is with difﬁculty I
have been restrained from ordering you instantly off the plantation. My whole place
for next year is ruined by your conduct. And look ye, Mr. Crow, I have too good
reasons to believe that your running about and entertaining company at home . . . is
the cause of this now irremediable evil in the progress of my business . . . I am very
willing and desirous to be your friend, but if your conduct does not merit it, you
must abide the consequences from Y[ou]rs.32

Crow was a savage overseer in ﬂogging slaves, Washington describing him to Pearce
as “swayed more by passion than by judgment in all his corrections.”33
Washington criticized overseer Henry McCoy for failing to plow after the late
October rains, jeopardizing his spring oat crop: “How durst you disobey this order
and, instead of bringing the whole force of your plows to this, you employ them
now and then only, or one or two a week, as if it were for amusement, thereby doing
everything which was in your power to derange my whole plan for the next year.”34
If McCoy remained inattentive to business, Washington threatened to banish him
“at any season of the year without paying you a shilling . . . If I suffer by your neglect, you shall not beneﬁt by the money of one who wishes to be your friend.”35

708

r! The Pr esident

Overseer William Stuart suffered a similar drubbing for his failure to plow as soon
as the October rains had ceased.
Washington chastised overseer Thomas Green for failing to perform work at the
Dogue Run barn. “I know full well,” Washington told him, “that to speak to you is
of no more avail than to speak to a bird that is ﬂying over one’s head; ﬁrst, because
you are lost to all sense of shame and to every feeling that ought to govern an honest
man, who sets any store by his character; and, secondly, because you have no more
command of the people over whom you are placed than I have over the beasts of
the forests.” If Green did not shape up, Washington threatened to “discharge you
that mom[en]t and to dispossess your family of the house they are in, for I cannot,
nor will not, submit to such infamous treatment as I meet with from you.”36
After instructing overseer John Christian Ehlers on how to graft fruit and plant
trees properly, Washington administered a stern lecture on the evils of alcohol: “I
shall not close this letter without exhorting you to refrain from spirituous liquors.
They will prove your ruin if you do not. Consider how little a drunken man differs
from a beast; the latter is not endowed with reason, the former deprives himself of
it; and when that is the case acts like a brute, annoying and disturbing everyone
around him . . . Don’t let this be your case.” Then, punning harshly on Ehlers’s middle name, Washington concluded, “Show yourself more of a man and a Christian
than to yield to so intolerable a vice.”37
The stress of managing Mount Vernon had ﬁnally become so draining for
Washington that he wanted to free himself of the burden of supervising overseers
and slaves. Since he contemplated stepping down as president in a year, his mind
already dwelt on retirement, and he felt oppressed by a surplus of both slaves and
white indentured servants. So he concocted an ambitious plan to rent out four
of the Mount Vernon farms to four capable English farmers, retaining only the
Mansion House farm for himself. In expounding this rental scheme to Tobias Lear,
Washington admitted candidly that his motive was “that the remainder of my days
may thereby be more tranquil and freer from cares; and that I may be enabled . . . to
do as much good with it as the resource will admit. For although in the estimation
of the world I possess a good and clear estate, yet, so unproductive is it, that I am
oftentimes ashamed to refuse aids which I cannot afford, unless I was to sell part of
it to answer the purpose.”38
The cash-strapped Washington knew that the world reckoned him a much
richer man than he really was. Mount Vernon’s gloriﬁed facade of wealth and grandeur covered up an operation that was, at best, only marginally proﬁtable. Running
the estate forced Washington to keep up appearances and act with the openhanded
largesse of an afﬂuent planter. He still felt hounded by visitors stopping by Mount
Vernon and partaking liberally of his food and drink. (In one letter, he expressed

Bring Out Your Dead r! 7 0 9

exasperation with Fanny for giving away dozens of bottles of expensive wine to voyeuristic travelers and listed only three classes of people who deserved those coveted
bottles: close friends, foreign dignitaries, and members of Congress and other politicos.) Part of Washington’s plan called for raising cash by selling more than thirty
thousand acres of western land at a time when prices were appreciating sharply.
To help ﬁnd suitable English farmers, Washington turned to the English agronomist Arthur Young, summarizing for him the riches of the four farms in question,
which then had 3,260 acres of arable land, 54 draft horses, 12 working mules, 317
head of black cattle, and hogs that “run pretty much at large in the woodland.”39
Washington had no qualms about touting the proximity of the farms to the federal
capital rising nearby. “The federal city in the year 1800 will become the seat of the
general government of the United States. It is increasing fast in buildings and rising into consequence and will, I have no doubt . . . become the emporium of the
United States.”40 Washington’s rental plan gave him yet another economic incentive
to accelerate the dilatory pace of construction of the new capital.
The most momentous aspect of the plan concerned the destiny of the 170 to
180 slaves conﬁned on the four farms. It was Washington’s fervent hope that the
new owner would free the slaves and then rehire them “as he would do any other
laborers which his necessity w[oul]d require him to employ.”41 Emancipating slaves
was a startling innovation for any major Virginia planter to contemplate, especially
if he was president of the United States. The scheme harked back to the plan that
Lafayette had proposed for his experimental farm in French Guiana. In disclosing
the idea to Lear, Washington explained that he had a motive “more powerful than
all the rest, namely to liberate a certain species of property which I possess, very
repugnantly to my own feelings, but which imperious necessity compels.”42
From the timing of his decision, one suspects that Washington’s disgust with
slavery owed something to pure principle but also much to the pure fatigue of trying to wrest proﬁts from an intractable workforce held in bondage. The realistic
and idealistic sides of George Washington both conspired to rebel against the peculiar institution. Interestingly enough, when he mentioned possible obstacles to his
plan, he talked of the difﬁculty of mingling white workers with black, but he never
mentioned a far more glaring problem: a political backlash in the South against
such a courageous move by the country’s foremost citizen.
As always, Washington had manifold reasons for his actions, and his response
to slavery was shaped by a complex blend of impulses. On November 23, 1794, he
wrote a revealing letter to his nephew Alexander Spotswood that dealt with his
views on slavery—a subject, Washington admitted, that “I do not like to even think,
much less talk of.”43 Washington suggested that the main hindrance to emancipating his slaves related to his fear of auctioning them off indiscriminately and break-

7 10

r! The Pr esident

ing up families: “Were it not, then, that I am principled ag[ains]t selling Negroes,
as you would cattle in the market, I would not, in twelve months from this date,
be possessed of one as a slave.”44 He went on to say that he feared trouble might be
brewing with the slave population and that a day of reckoning might soon be at
hand: “I shall be happily mistaken if they are not found to be a very troublesome
species of property ’ere many years pass over our heads.”45
The anxious foreboding about slave revolts was immeasurably heightened by
the massive slave revolt in the French colony of St. Domingue (modern-day Haiti),
led by Toussaint Louverture starting in August 1791. This, the largest slave revolt
in history, had led to thousands of deaths among rebel slaves and white masters,
fomenting hysterical fears among American planters. When Charles Pinckney worried about the impact of these events on southern slaves, Washington shared his
alarm: “I feel sincerely those sentiments of sympathy which you so properly express
for the distresses of our suffering brethren [the slave owners] in that quarter and
deplore their causes.”46 It seemed a terrifyingly vivid realization of the nightmares
of slaveholders who feared the hatred that simmered deep inside their slaves. In
response, Virginia enacted more stringent rules against slave gatherings as well as
an “act against divulgers of false news.”47
President Washington extended money and arms to the French government
to combat the insurrection and also made a personal donation of $250 to relieve
the affected white colonists. By July 1793 thousands of white refugees from St.
Domingue had streamed into American ports, where they retailed hideous tales of
rape and mass killings by enraged slaves. That month Thomas Jefferson wrote to
James Monroe, saying that the situation of these fugitive planters “calls aloud for
pity and charity. Never was so deep a tragedy presented to the feelings of man . . . I become daily more convinced that all the West India islands will remain in the hands
of the people of color and a total expulsion of the whites sooner or later take place.
It is high time we should foresee the bloody scenes which our children certainly and
possibly ourselves (south of Potomac) will have to wade through and try to avert
them.”48 In February 1794 France decided to free the slaves in its empire, partly to
hold on to St. Domingue by appeasing the agitated black population. Washington’s
comments to Alexander Spotswood must be set against the backdrop of the slave
revolt in St. Domingue and the conviction of many southern planters, reﬂected in
Jefferson’s comment, that it was only a matter of time before American slaves took
matters into their own hands, rebelling in bloody wrath against their masters.

ch ap ter fif t y-eight

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Hercules in the Field

Th e w i n t e r of 1793 – 9 4 was a cold and dreary one in Philadelphia; the Delaware River was so choked with ice ﬂoes that vessels could not navigate. After the yellow fever epidemic, the capital remained a ghostly place, with the usual diversions
of theater and dancing still temporarily taboo. “We have been very dull here all
winter,” wrote Martha Washington, lapsing into the general funk. “There has been
two assemblies and it is said that the players are to be here soon. If they come and
open the new theater, I suppose it will make a very great change.”1
On December 31, 1793, Thomas Jefferson resigned as secretary of state, thereby
liberating himself from the intolerable company of Alexander Hamilton. For all
their pronounced differences, Washington and Jefferson had experienced parallel
frustrations with public service. Both men gave the impression of serving under duress, yearned to regain the domestic pleasures of their plantations, and disclaimed
political ambition, however dubious that notion seemed to impartial observers.
A worn-out Jefferson could not wait to return to the repose of Monticello, telling
one correspondent in late November, “I hope to spend the remainder of my days in
occupations inﬁnitely more pleasing than those to which I have sacriﬁced 18 years
of the prime of my life.”2 Since the political animosity toward him had spilled over
into Federalist-dominated high society, he wished to retire “from the hated occupations of politics and sink into the bosom of my family, my farm, and my books.”3
In a parting shot as secretary of state, Jefferson proposed to Congress a series of
trade restrictions designed to throttle commerce with Great Britain. In Hamilton’s
scornful opinion, Jefferson “threw this ﬁrebrand of discord” on congressional desks
“and instantly decamped to Monticello.”4 Outwardly, Washington’s parting with

712

r! The Pr esident

Jefferson was amicable enough, and he sent him a civil farewell letter, but privately
he felt that Jefferson had betrayed him by deserting him at a troubling moment in
foreign affairs.
Jefferson’s preferred self-image was that of a bookish, unworldly fellow, more
at home with intellectual pursuits than in the hurly-burly of politics. Once back at
Monticello, he presented himself as a monkish stranger to all political striving, as if
it were a youthful folly he had outgrown. “The little spice of ambition, which I had
in my younger days,” he told Madison, “has long since evaporated . . . The question
is forever closed to me.”5 To less friendly observers, however, the matter was far
from closed. As early as 1792 Hamilton claimed to penetrate the secret workings of
Jefferson’s mind and discover it was worm-eaten with ambition: “ ’Tis evident beyond a question, from every movement, that Mr. Jefferson aims with ardent desire
at the presidential chair.”6 He interpreted Jefferson’s withdrawal from the scene as
a temporary maneuver until the time had ripened for his triumphant return. Similarly, John Adams dismissed grufﬂy Jefferson’s pose of philosophical detachment,
declaring upon the latter’s exit from Philadelphia: “A good riddance of bad ware . . .
He is as ambitious as Oliver Cromwell . . . His soul is poisoned with ambition.”7 For
Adams, Jefferson’s resignation was a calculated ﬁrst step in a determined campaign
for the presidency. “The whole anti-Federal party at that time considered this retirement as a sure and certain step towards the summit of the pyramid,” he said in
later life.8 As he observed tartly, “Political plants grow in the shade.”9
At ﬁrst Jefferson professed sublime indifference to politics. “I live on my horse
from morning to night,” he declared to Henry Knox. “I rarely look into a book or
take up a pen. I have proscribed newspapers.”10 In departing from ofﬁce, Jefferson
maintained that his political activity would henceforth be restricted to his hobbyhorse, “the shameless corruption of a portion” of Congress and “their implicit
devotion to the treasury.”11 But when asked whether Washington was “governed by
British inﬂuence,” Jefferson supposedly replied, facetiously, that no danger existed
so long as Washington “was inﬂuenced by the wise advisers or advice, which [he]
at present had.”12 When Governor Henry Lee told him about this patent gibe that
he was biased toward Britain and hoodwinked by Hamilton’s malevolent inﬂuence,
Washington reacted with fury. Jefferson could not honestly accuse him of such bias,
he retorted, unless “he has set me down as one of the most deceitful and uncandid
men living,” because Jefferson had heard him “express very different sentiments
with an energy that could not be mistaken by anyone present.”13 Two years later,
hotly rejecting the accusation of being a “party man,” Washington insisted to Jefferson that he had ruled against Hamilton in the cabinet as often as he had sided
with him.14
After leaving ofﬁce, Jefferson was demoted to a lower rung in Washington’s ever-

Hercules in the Field r! 7 13

shifting hierarchy of relationships. Their correspondence, however friendly, centered on mundane matters, such as crops and seeds, and Washington never again
sought him out for policy advice. He dropped the salutation “My dear Sir” in favor
of the cooler “Dear Sir.” Thus did the subtle Washington consign ex-colleagues to
slow oblivion. If Washington suspected that Jefferson belonged to a cabal against
him, Jefferson was no less insistent that “federal monarchists” had captured the
president’s ear in order to vilify him, Jefferson, as a “theorist, holding French principles of government, which would lead infallibly to licentiousness and anarchy.”15
For someone as cordial as Washington, the avoidance of meetings with an old friend
underlined the true depth of his hostility toward Jefferson.
We are accustomed to viewing the founding era as endowed with an inexhaustible supply of superlatively able men available for public service. But once the most
gifted public servants—Jefferson, Hamilton, Adams, Madison, and Jay—were already accounted for, Washington, like many later presidents, had a ﬁendishly hard
time ﬁnding replacements for his sterling ﬁrst-term cabinet and turned by default
to comparative mediocrities. Moreover, some worthy ﬁgures weren’t prepared to
make the ﬁnancial sacriﬁce that accompanied public ofﬁce. To perpetuate some
modicum of geographic and political diversity, Washington tapped Edmund Randolph as his new secretary of state and brought in a Federalist, William Bradford of
the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, to replace him as attorney general. Nevertheless
Randolph fell woefully short of Jefferson’s intellectual standard and was viewed
in Republican quarters as an unreliable partner. His shortcomings tilted the cabinet’s power balance decisively toward Hamilton, giving a far more Federalist tint to
Washington’s second term. Both Hamilton and Knox had promised to stay on until
the end of 1794; Hamilton’s stature was only enhanced after a second House inquiry
into his conduct granted him a full vindication in May 1794.
One of the ﬁrst challenges for the new team was to ﬁgure out how to deal with
the lawless North African, or “Barbary,” states—Algiers, Tripoli, and Tunis—which
plundered foreign vessels in the Mediterranean and enslaved their crews. Many European powers had grown resigned to paying “tribute”—a polite word for ransom
money—to win the release of their crews. As American crews succumbed to these
pirates and were threatened with forced conversion to Islam, Washington was offended by the need to pay bribes, especially after Algiers seized eleven American
merchant ships and a hundred prisoners. Reluctantly, he authorized the payment of
money to Algiers and even tried to negotiate a treaty of amity and commerce with
the city-state, but he thought the time had come to back up American diplomacy
with military might. In March 1794 Congress approved a proposal, backed by Washington and Knox, to build six frigates “adequate for the protection of the commerce
of the U.S. against Algerian corsairs.”16 This action ofﬁcially inaugurated the U.S.

714

r! The Pr esident

Navy, although it would take four more years before a separate Navy Department
was born. While the six frigates represented a landmark in Washington’s plan to
foster a professional military, he never neglected diplomacy and wrested treaties
from both Morocco and Algiers.
Another foreign policy crisis arose from the swelling casualties spawned by
the French Revolution and the concomitant European turmoil. Supported by his
cabinet, Washington made a private overture to the king of Prussia, asking him to
release Lafayette as a gesture of friendship toward America. Although Washington
failed to win his freedom, the king eased the shockingly bad conditions of Lafayette’s conﬁnement and allowed him books, fresh air, and more appetizing food. The
respite, alas, was brief. Lafayette was soon transferred to the Austrian authorities,
who shut him up in a ﬁlthy, ﬂy-infested cell in Olmütz, where he lay in chains and
ragged clothing. After Lafayette’s wife was arrested in France, Gouverneur Morris
interceded on her behalf, leading Robespierre to spare her from the guillotine, but
her mother, sister, and grandmother wound up as victims of the Terror.
In April 1793 the French government had established the Committee of Public
Safety, giving it sweeping powers to arrest people for treason and try them under its jurisdiction; by September a Reign of Terror ensued that would claim as
many as forty thousand lives.17 As an eyewitness to the bloodletting, Gouverneur
Morris provided Washington with a running commentary on the atrocities. “The
Queen was executed the day before yesterday,” he wrote of Marie-Antoinette that
October. “Insulted during her trial and reviled in her last moments”—she had
been taken through the streets of Paris in an open cart to the guillotine—“she
behav’d with dignity throughout.”18 The perceptive Morris saw that the violence
was no incidental by-product of the revolution but fundamental to its spirit. As
he put it in lapidary prose, “In the groves [of the revolution], at every end of
every vista, you see nothing but gallows.”19 An essential difference between the
American and French revolutions was that the American version allowed a search
for many truths, while French zealots tried to impose a single sacred truth that
allowed no deviation.
By July 1794 the revolutionary tribunal in Paris accelerated the tempo of its trials
and issued nine hundred death sentences per month.20 Many victims of the Terror
had been stalwart friends of the American Revolution. Pulled from his quarters
in the middle of the night, Thomas Paine had been tossed into prison and stayed
there for months. From Paris, James Monroe, who replaced Gouverneur Morris as
American minister, informed Madison that Paine was loudly blaming Washington for his predicament: “He thinks the president winked at his imprisonment and
wished he might die in gaol, and bears his resentment for it; also he is preparing
an attack upon him of the most virulent kind.”21 Whatever displeasure Washington

Hercules in the Field r! 7 15

might have felt toward Paine, there is no evidence that he wanted him either abused
or incarcerated.
Many Frenchmen who had admired or even participated in the American
Revolution were casualties of its bloody Gallic sequel. After testifying in favor of
Marie-Antoinette, the former Count d’Estaing was beheaded. The erstwhile Count
de Rochambeau, locked up in the Conciergerie in Paris, was condemned to the guillotine and survived only because Robespierre fell from power as he was about to be
decapitated. The massacre of French aristocrats widened the rift between Federalists, who feared that France would export anarchy, and Republicans, who cheered
the radical spirit of events in Paris, whatever their unfortunate excesses.
At the same time that France was testing American patience, England, at war
with France, was straining Anglo-American relations as never before. Starting in
June 1793, the British government directed the Royal Navy to intercept neutral ships
bearing foodstuffs destined for French ports and seize their cargo; ﬁve months later
the policy was brieﬂy expanded into a total blockade of the French West Indies.
In short order, British warships stopped and seized 250 American ships, conﬁscating their wares. At the same time, to boost manpower in the depleted Royal Navy,
captains grabbed British deserters aboard American ships—a practice known as
“impressment”—accidentally tangling in their nets many innocent Americans.
These high-handed maneuvers summoned up old memories of British arrogance
and precipitated a political ﬁrestorm. Even Federalists waxed indignant that England
was pursuing a counterproductive policy that would feed sympathy for France, foster a vengeful mood toward England, and threaten the neutrality proclamation.
Having authorized a new navy, Federalist leaders in Congress worked to marshal
support for a 25,000-man army to deal with any foreign threats that materialized.
They made plans to fortify harbors and, to combat the old bugaboo of a standing
army, mobilize militiamen on short notice. For Republicans, such measures raised
the specter of an oppressive military establishment that might be directed against
homegrown dissidents. Those who deemed George Washington an uncritical admirer of Great Britain would have been surprised by the venomous letters he wrote
that spring. In one, he mocked those “who affect to believe that Great Britain has no
hostile intention towards this country” and insisted that its political conduct “has
worn a very hostile appearance latterly.”22 He was convinced that Britain was inciting Indian nations against America and angling to alter the U.S.-Canadian border
in Britain’s favor.
The impression grew among Federalists that it would be wise to dispatch a special envoy to London to avert war, maintain trade, seek reparations for plundered
ships, and settle outstanding disputes, including many lingering from the end of
the war, such as Britain’s failure to evacuate forts in the northwest. Among other

7 16

r! The Pr esident

things, Washington wanted to forestall any trade sanctions against England in the
Congress. When Hamilton’s name surfaced as the Federalists’ ﬁrst choice for the
new envoy, Washington seriously considered it until Republicans protested that
Hamilton, a patent Anglophile, would lack all credibility at home. Washington was
swayed by this objection, especially after Hamilton removed himself from consideration and pushed forward Chief Justice Jay as an ideal substitute. To Republican eyes, the Anglophile Jay was hardly free of sin; indeed, Madison whispered in
Washington’s ear that Jay was a secret monarchist. But Washington proceeded with
the appointment. The choice of Jay, less controversial than Hamilton, still caused
an enormous uproar among government critics, and Madison afﬁrmed that it was
“the most powerful blow ever suffered by the popularity of the president.”23 For
Washington, negotiation with England seemed the only alternative to outright war,
and he stuck courageously by his decision to display Jay.
During his diplomatic mission Jay remained as chief justice, which struck some
observers as unconstitutional. At the very least it softened the lines between the executive and judicial branches—lines that Jay himself had tried to sharpen. As Senator Aaron Burr argued, the decision created the prospect of the executive branch
exercising a “mischievous and impolitic” inﬂuence over the judiciary.24 Washington
was agile in making appointments, and to make the choice of Jay more palatable, he
shrewdly juggled political forces. To mollify Republicans, he recalled Gouverneur
Morris from France, sending in his stead the Francophile senator James Monroe.
Hamilton’s inﬂuence had not been entirely neutralized, for when Jay sailed to England on May 12, 1794, applauded by a thousand bystanders on the New York docks,
the instructions he carried bore Hamilton’s imprint. Among other things, Jay would
enjoy the leeway to negotiate a full-ﬂedged commercial treaty, should the English
prove amenable—something that was anathema to the Republicans. In his own
instructions to Jay, Washington breathed ﬁre against English intransigence. Of the
British surrender of the frontier posts, he said: “I will undertake, without the gift
of prophecy, to predict that it will be impossible to keep this country in a state of
amity with G[reat] Britain long if the posts are not surrendered.”25 No one who saw
Washington’s correspondence could have imagined that he was a lackey of England
or plotting to install a pro-British monarchy in America.
Wa sh i ngt on ’s l et t e r s show that during his second term he was bruised and
disillusioned by the scathing tone of the opposition. Increasingly deaf and embattled, he desperately needed rest at Mount Vernon, but the crush of public business
allowed him only a brief stay there in June. While at home, as he was inspecting
the canal and locks being built at the Little Falls of the Potomac, his horse lost its
footing and nearly dashed him against the rocks. A masterful horseman, Washing-

Hercules in the Field r! 7 1 7

ton nimbly pulled the animal away from danger with “violent exertions,” but the
effort so badly strained his back that afterward he could not even mount a horse.26
Afraid his aching back could not withstand the long ride, he postponed his return
to Philadelphia until July 3 and even then took the trip by easy stages. “I very much
fear that it will be a troublesome complaint to him for some time,” Martha worried
of his back condition, “or perhaps as long as he lives he will feel it at times.”27 That
July and August, to escape the sweltering heat of a Philadelphia summer, he and
Martha took a house in Germantown.
People noticed that Washington seemed worn down by his cares. When English
manufacturer Henry Wansey breakfasted with him, he found the president affable,
obliging, and ﬁt for a man of his age, but he detected “a certain anxiety visible in
his countenance, with marks of extreme sensibility.”28 Still, he thought the president
looked much younger than Martha: “She appears something older than the president, though I understand they were both born in the same year. [She was] short
in stature, rather robust, very plain in her dress, wearing a very plain cap, with her
gray hair closely turned up under it.”29
Among the many burdens borne by Washington that summer was the fate of
Anthony Wayne’s expedition against Indians on the northwestern frontier. In January Wayne had informed Knox of his belief that his well-drilled army, the Legion
of the United States, was capable of avenging St. Clair’s ignominious defeat. The
nation, in Wayne’s opinion, had a “golden opportunity . . . for advancing and striking . . . those haughty savages . . . with the bayonet . . . and ﬁre of the American Legion.”30 On August 20, in the Battle of Fallen Timbers, near present-day Toledo,
Ohio, Wayne and a force of 3,500 soldiers delivered a stunning defeat to Indian
tribes. The Americans went on an unbridled rampage, trampling Indian houses
and crops over a vast territory. Nonetheless Washington sang Wayne’s praises for
having “damped the ardor of the savages and weakened their obstinacy in waging
war against the United States.”31 The victory broke the back of Indian power in the
region and ended British inﬂuence with the dominant tribes.
While Washington dealt remorselessly with Indians who menaced white settlers,
he never surrendered hope of a humane rapprochement with them. Both Washington and Knox recognized that Indian depredations were understandable responses
to the impingement of white communities on their traditional lands. Neither man
engaged in bullying jingoism, and Knox even regretted that whites who murdered
Indians were not dealt with as severely as Indians who did the same to whites. “It is
[a] melancholy reﬂection,” Knox wrote, “that our modes of population have been
more destructive to the Indian natives than the conduct of the conquerors of Mexico and Peru. The evidence of this is the utter extirpation of nearly all the Indians
in the most populous parts of the Union.”32 No less sympathetic to the Indians’

718

r! The Pr esident

plight, Washington noted despairingly that “the encroachments . . . made on their
lands by our people” were “not to be restrained by any law now in being or likely
to be enacted.”33
Washington’s Indian policy was a tragedy of noble intentions that failed to ﬁx
a seemingly insoluble problem. He wanted to fashion a series of homelands that
might guarantee the permanent safety of Indian tribes. In his last year in ofﬁce, he
issued his “Address to the Cherokee Nation,” which attempted to deﬁne a way for
Americans and Native Americans to coexist in harmony. He again advised the Indians to abandon traditional hunting and gathering and to imitate the civilization of
white settlers by farming and ranching. He urged them to domesticate animals, to
farm crops, and to encourage spinning and weaving among their women. He even
offered Mount Vernon as a model: “Beloved Cherokees, what I have recommended
to you, I am myself going to do. After a few moons are passed, I shall leave the great
town and retire to my farm. There I shall attend to the means of increasing my cattle, sheep, and other useful animals; to the growing of corn, wheat, and other grain;
and to the employing of women in spinning and weaving.”34 As was so often the
case when slavery was involved, Washington did not see the absurdity of presenting
himself, a large slave owner, as a shining example for the Indians to emulate.
If the speech was enlightened in its warm, friendly tone toward the Cherokees, it
was unrealistic in asking them to abandon their culture and adopt that of their rivals.
It was, in essence, telling the Indians that to survive they had to renounce their immemorial way of life—that is, cease to be Indians and become white men. At bottom
lurked the unspoken threat that, if they ﬂouted this advice, harm would follow. For
all of Washington’s good intentions, it proved impossible for the federal government
to prod speculators and state governments into dealing fairly with the Indians, who
continued to lose millions of acres from the rapacious practices of white men.

Th e m a i n c r isis that monopolized Washington’s time in the summer of 1794
came not from troublesome Indians but from restive white settlers. From the time
Congress imposed an excise tax on distilled spirits in 1791—an important component of Hamilton’s plan to pare the federal deﬁcit—Washington had expected
resistance and vowed to exercise his legal powers “to check so daring and unwarrantable a spirit.”35 The new government, he believed, had to punish infractions
and instill reverence for the law. If laws were “trampled upon with impunity,” he
warned, “and a minority . . . is to dictate to the majority, there is an end put at one
stroke to republican government.”36 The chief locus of opposition to the whiskey
tax arose in western Pennsylvania, where many farmers owned small stills and converted their grain into whiskey to make it more portable to seaboard markets. They

Hercules in the Field r! 7 19

were especially outraged by the investigative powers granted government inspectors, who could inspect barns and cellars at will. Compared to inhabitants of eastern cities, frontier settlers had a more tenuous allegiance to the federal government
and tended to resent its intrusions more keenly, especially when it came to internal
taxes such as the whiskey tax.
As opposition ﬂared into violent discontent, the ﬁrst target was Colonel John
Neville, a revenue inspector who had seen service in the Continental Army. In midJuly 1794 Neville and U.S. Marshal David Lenox tried serving processes on farmers
who had not registered their stills, as required by law. In retaliation, protesters attacked Neville’s house, putting it to the torch, and also ﬁred at Lenox. On August 1
the protests assumed a more ominous character when six thousand dissidents appeared in Braddock’s Field outside Pittsburgh—the same place where Washington
had shown such heroism four decades earlier. The mood of bravado and secession
was symbolized by a ﬂag with six stripes, representing the four counties in Pennsylvania and two in western Virginia that were in armed revolt over the whiskey tax.
“Sodom had been burnt by ﬁre from heaven,” thundered one speaker. “This second
Sodom [Pittsburgh] should be burned with ﬁre from earth.”37 The protesters talked
of seizing the federal garrison in Pittsburgh and pledged to force the resignation
of anyone enforcing the whiskey tax. Fulﬁlling the worst Federalist fears, one dissident, taking inspiration from Robespierre, urged the creation of a committee of
public safety and weeks later called for guillotines.
On August 2 Washington assembled his cabinet to ponder measures to counter
the uprising. Reluctantly convinced that he had to crack down on those defying the
whiskey tax, he urged Pennsylvania ofﬁcials to take the lead, but they balked at military action. When Washington canvassed his cabinet, Hamilton and Knox wanted
to call out the militia posthaste, while Randolph demurred, fearing force would
embolden the protesters. Washington solicited an opinion from Justice James Wilson, who certiﬁed the president’s authority to mobilize the militia. On August 7
Washington issued a proclamation calling up the militia and warned the western
insurgents to “disperse and retire peaceably to their respective abodes” by September 1.38 The same day, Knox alerted the governors of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and
Virginia to ready thirteen thousand militia to squash the rebellion. Washington
exhausted all peaceful means before resorting to force and sent out a three-man
commission, headed by Attorney General Bradford, to parley with the insurgents
in western Pennsylvania.
The day after the proclamation, Knox received the president’s reluctant permission to take a six-week leave of absence in Maine, where he had encountered
business setbacks. All year Washington had brooded about whether Knox’s ﬁnancial plight would force him to resign. In 1790 Knox had bought two million acres

72 0

r! The Pr esident

in Maine with the notorious speculator William Duer, whose machinations had
touched off ﬁnancial panic in New York. Eager to become a country squire, Knox
borrowed lavishly and constructed a baronial mansion. With its nineteen rooms
and twenty-four ﬁreplaces, the house ranked among New England’s majestic private residences. Since Knox had been the soul of loyalty to Washington, it seems
puzzling that he deserted him during the Whiskey Rebellion; the president must
have wondered whether his protégé had lost his way amid his social aspirations.
In a major step, Washington had Alexander Hamilton assume the additional duties of secretary of war until Knox returned. It was a tough moment for Hamilton,
too, since his wife was going through a difﬁcult pregnancy and one of his sons lay
desperately ill.
When the three commissioners met with local residents in western Pennsylvania in mid-August, they encountered deﬁant vows to resist the whiskey tax “at all
hazards.”39 Only the “physical strength of the nation,” they told Washington, could
guarantee compliance with the law.40 Governor Henry Lee of Virginia was deputized
to lead the army formed to put down the insurgents. In conﬁdence, Washington
sent him a vehement letter about the revolt, which he thought had been fomented
by Genet and other “artful and designing” men who wished to destroy conﬁdence in
government. “I consider this insurrection as the ﬁrst formidable fruit of the Democratic Societies.”41 He saw himself as the target of a whispering campaign conducted
by his political opponents: “A part of the plan for creating discord is, I perceive, to
make me say things of others, and others of me, w[hich] have no foundation in
truth.”42 Washington’s political views sometimes sounded as if they were plucked
from a study of Plutarch’s Lives or Shakespeare’s Roman plays, in which shrewdly
ambitious demagogues preyed upon credulous masses.
The evidence of unrest in western Pennsylvania mounted. A mob descended
on Captain William Faulkner, who had allowed John Neville to establish an ofﬁce
in his home, threatening to tar and feather him and incinerate his house unless he
stopped giving sanctuary to Neville. New reports suggested that the turmoil might
be spreading to Maryland and other states. Eager to show governmental resolve in
the face of disorder, Hamilton had long spoiled for a showdown with the instigators. “Moderation enough has been shown; ’tis time to assume a different tone,”
he had advised Washington.43 Having hoped for a diplomatic settlement, Washington reluctantly agreed that a show of force had become necessary in western
Pennsylvania.
Amid the crisis, Washington bowed to the wishes of his Alexandria lodge and
sat for a portrait by William Joseph Williams that featured him in a Masonic outﬁt. After suffering through many portraits early in his presidency, Washington had
decided to scale back drastically. He admitted to Henry Lee in 1792 that he had

Hercules in the Field r! 721

grown “so heartily tired of the attendance which . . . I have bestowed on these kind
of people [artists] that it is now more than two years since I have resolved to sit no
more for any of them . . . except in instances where it has been requested by public
bodies or for a particular purpose . . . and could not without offense be refused.”44
He detested the crude engravings of him made from paintings, which were crassly
peddled by vendors. The pastel portrait that Williams executed on September 18,
1794, shows a particularly dour, cranky Washington, with a tightly turned-down
mouth. Posing in a black coat, he wears Masonic symbols on a blue sash that slants
diagonally across his chest. His face is neither friendly nor heroic but looks like
that of a bad-tempered relative, suggesting that the presidency was now a trial he
endured only for the public good. Unsparing in its accuracy, the Williams portrait
shows various blemishes on Washington’s face—a scar that curves under the pouch
of his left eye; a mole below his right earlobe; smallpox scars on both his nose and
cheeks—ordinarily edited out of highly sanitized portraits.
On September 25 Washington issued a ﬁnal warning to the whiskey rebels, who
had dismissed his “overtures of forgiveness” and now constituted, in his view, “a
treasonable opposition.”45 He viewed their actions as a grave test of the Constitution, raising the question of “whether a small proportion of the United States
shall dictate to the whole Union.”46 Prepared to don his uniform to lead the ﬁght,
Washington told his tailor to make up an outﬁt patterned after the one he had worn
during the war. He planned to travel as far west as Carlisle, Pennsylvania, where
the Pennsylvania and New Jersey militia were encamped, before deciding whether
to proceed farther west with the troops. Still recovering from his June back injury,
Washington, accompanied by Hamilton, rode out of Philadelphia in a genteel carriage, rather than on horseback, as if they were going off on a peaceful jaunt in the
autumn countryside. No longer accustomed to the alarums of war, Martha was all
aﬂutter with fear. “The president . . . is to go himself tomorrow to Carlyle to meet
the troops,” she wrote Fanny. “God knows when he will return again. I shall be left
quite alone with the children.”47
In sallying forth to command the troops, Washington, sixty-two, became the
ﬁrst and only American president ever to supervise troops in a combat situation.
It irked him that Knox had not returned as promised, then compounded his misdemeanor by not bothering to write to him. “Under the circumstances which exist
to exceed your proposed time of absence so long is to be regretted,” Washington
wrote Knox in unusually pointed language. “But hearing nothing from you for a
considerable time has given alarm, lest some untoward accident may have been the
cause of it.”48 Knox’s absence magniﬁed the power of Hamilton, who believed in an
overwhelming demonstration of military strength. “Whenever the government appears in arms,” Hamilton proclaimed, “it ought to appear like a Hercules and inspire

722

r! The Pr esident

respect by the display of strength.”49 For Hamilton, an armed force of thirteen thousand soldiers was a suitable number to confront an estimated six thousand to seven
thousand insurgents, but Republicans thought he was conjuring up a phantom revolt to establish an oppressive army. The Whiskey Rebellion, Madison insisted, was
being exploited to “establish the principle that a standing army was necessary for
enforcing the laws,” while a skeptical Jefferson scoffed that an “insurrection was announced and proclaimed and armed against, but could never be found.”50

ch ap ter fif t y-nine

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Crowns and Coronets

A s h e rol l e d w e st wa r d toward the army assembled at Carlisle, Washington’s writing reverted to the factual almanac style of his travel diaries, as if he were
a touring naturalist and not president of the United States: “The Susquehanna at
this place abounds in the rockﬁsh of 12 or 15 inches in length and a ﬁsh which they
call salmon.”1 The president still had sufﬁcient spunk and energy that, when his carriage forded the river, he drove it across himself. When he arrived at Carlisle, troops
lined the roadway, eager to catch a glimpse of him, and Washington knew that, for
this command performance, they wanted the charismatic military man on horseback, not the aging president ensconced in a carriage. A Captain Ford of the New
Jersey militia thrilled to the sight of Washington: “As he passed our troop, he pulled
off his hat, and in the most respectful manner, bowed to the ofﬁcers and men and in
this manner passed the line.”2 From Washington’s digniﬁed deportment, everyone
recognized the solemnity of the occasion. A large, euphoric crowd had assembled
in the town, and they were hushed into silence by his sudden appearance. When he
reviewed the soldiers standing at attention in front of their tents, these men were
also awed into “the greatest silence,” according to Captain Ford.3
Experiencing “the bustle of a camp” for the ﬁrst time in a decade, Washington
kept a relatively low proﬁle and was eager to accentuate the role of the state governors and their militias.4 Eyewitnesses observed Hamilton briskly taking charge while
Washington seemed a bit detached. One young messenger who deposited dispatches
at headquarters said that Hamilton was clearly “the master spirit. The president remained aloof, conversing with the writer in relation to roads, distances, etc. Washington was grave, distant, and austere. Hamilton was kind, courteous, and frank.”5

724

r! The Pr esident

While Washington was at Carlisle, Henry Knox belatedly returned to Philadelphia. It must have dawned on him just how annoyed Washington was by his protracted absence, for he sent him a letter awash with “inexpressible regret that an
extraordinary course of contrary winds” had delayed his return.6 Knox volunteered
to join Washington at Carlisle and must have been shocked by his curt reply: “It
would have given me pleasure to have had you with me on my present tour and
advantages might have resulted from it, if your return in time would have allowed
it. It is now too late.”7 This was a remarkable message: the president was banishing
the secretary of war from the largest military operation to unfold since the Revolutionary War. In addition to giving Knox a stinging rap on the knuckles, Washington
must also have seen that Hamilton had assumed a commanding posture and would
have yielded to Knox only with reluctance.
With general prosperity reigning in the country, Washington found something
perverse in the discontent of the whiskey rebels, telling Carlisle residents that “instead of murmurs and tumults,” America’s condition called “for our warmest gratitude to heaven.”8 He faulted the insurgents for failing to recognize that the excise
law was not a ﬁat, issued by an autocratic government, but a tax voted by their
lawful representatives. To avert bloody confrontations, two representatives of the
rebel farmers traveled to Carlisle to hold talks with Washington. Born in northern
Ireland, Congressman William Findley was a solid foe of administration policies,
and David Redick, also born in Ireland, was a former member of Pennsylvania’s Supreme Executive Council. On their way to Carlisle, the two had received disturbing
reports of an unruly federal army that could not wait to wreak havoc on the western
rebels. Rough, shrewd men from the Pennsylvania backwoods, Findley and Redick
were realists and let Washington know that frontier settlers were now prepared to
pay the whiskey tax.
At two meetings Washington received them courteously enough and pledged to
curb vengeful feelings in his army. “The president was very sensible of the inﬂammatory and ungovernable disposition that had discovered itself in the army before
he arrived at Carlisle,” Findley recollected, “and he had not only labored incessantly
to remove that spirit and prevent its effects, but he was solicitous also to remove our
fears.”9 Washington, who sensed that the two emissaries were frightened, believed
that the insurgents were deﬁant only when the army remained distant. He warned
that “unequivocal proofs of absolute submission” would be required to stop the
army from marching deeper into the western country.10 He also stated categorically
that if the rebels ﬁred at the troops, “there could be no answering for consequences
in this case.”11 Viewing the Whiskey Rebellion as the handiwork of the DemocraticRepublican Societies, bent on subverting government, he did not intend to relent
too easily. Such was his outrage over the menacing and irresponsible behavior of

Crowns and Coronets r! 725

these groups that it threatened his longtime friendship with James Madison. In a
private letter to Secretary of State Randolph, Washington wrote, “I should be extremely sorry therefore if Mr. M——n from any cause whatsoever should get entangled with [the societies], or their politics.”12
As he proceeded west toward Bedford, the president cast a discerning eye on the
surrounding scenery, not as a future battleﬁeld but as a site for future real estate
transactions. “I shall summarily notice the kind of land and state of improvements
along the road I have come,” he vowed in his diary.13 However conciliatory he was
with Findley and Redick, he clung to the conviction that the incorrigible rebels
would submit only under duress. When he heard reports of insurgents cowering
as the army approached, he wrote cynically that “though submission is professed,
their principles remain the same and . . . nothing but coercion and example will
reclaim and bring them to a due and unequivocal submission to the laws.”14
Reaching Bedford, Washington rode in imposing style along the line of
soldiers—his back troubles had miraculously eased—and the army reacted with
palpable esteem for its commander in chief. As Washington passed, a Dr. Wellington
noted in his diary, the men “were affected by the sight of their chief, for whom each
individual seemed to show the affectionate regard that would have been [shown]
to an honored parent . . . Gen[era]l Washington . . . passed along the line bowing in
the most respectful and affectionate manner to the ofﬁcers. He appeared pleased.”15
Washington must have been buoyed by his reception and the return to the rugged
life of a ﬁeld command, away from the sedentary urban duties of the presidency.
Because the whole point of the expedition was to establish the sovereign principle
of law and order in the new federal system, he warned his men that it would be
“peculiarly unbecoming” to inﬂict wanton harm on the whiskey rebels and that
civil magistrates, not military tribunals, should mete out punishment to them.16 He
huddled with Hamilton and Henry Lee to work out plans for two columns to push
west toward Pittsburgh. On October 21, once the military arrangements were completed, he disappeared into his carriage and doubled back to Philadelphia through
heavy rain, leaving Hamilton in charge and sending the Jeffersonian press into a
frenzy. Benjamin Franklin Bache’s Aurora ﬂayed Hamilton as a military despot in
the making, construing his current position as but “a ﬁrst step towards a deep laid
scheme, not for the promotion of the country’s prosperity, but the advancement of
his private interests.”17
On October 28, after days of sliding along muddy roads, Washington rolled back
into Philadelphia, right before Congress came into session. In his sixth annual address to Congress, on November 19, he defended his conduct in western Pennsylvania and singled out “certain self-created societies” as having egged on the protesters
and assumed a permanently threatening character to government authority.18 For

72 6

r! The Pr esident

those who missed the glaring reference, the Federalist Fisher Ames claimed that
the Democratic-Republican Societies, inspired by the French Jacobin clubs, “were
born in sin, the impure offspring of Genet,” and produced “everywhere the echoes
of factions in Congress.”19 Washington’s rare display of public temper generated
a mood of high drama; one Federalist congressman vouched that he had “felt a
strange mixture of passions which I cannot describe. Tears started into my eyes,
and it was with difﬁculty that I could suppress an involuntary effort to swear that I
would support him.”20
Washington’s allusion to the new societies, which sounded sinister, produced
deep reverberations in American politics. The Senate applauded his warning, but
in the House James Madison denounced what he saw as the censure of legitimate
political clubs. “If we advert to the nature of republican government,” he said, “we
shall ﬁnd that the censorial power is in the people over the government, and not in
the government over the people.”21 It was an astounding development: James Madison, the former conﬁdant of Washington, was now openly condemning his mentor.
So unwarranted did Madison consider Washington’s criticism of the “self-created
societies” that he privately told Jefferson that it was “perhaps the greatest error” of
Washington’s political life.22 Madison descried a strategy to denigrate the societies
by associating them with the Whiskey Rebellion, and then to denigrate congressional Republicans by associating them with the societies—all as part of an effort
to boost the Federalist party. For Jefferson, Washington’s speech was a patent attack
on free speech, conﬁrming a monarchical mentality that was “perfectly dazzled by
the glittering of crowns and coronets.”23 For Madison and Jefferson, this was the
pivotal moment when Washington surrendered any pretense of nonpartisanship
and became the open leader of the Federalists.
As Washington anticipated, the display of military might in western Pennsylvania caused the uprising to wither. But it would stand as the biggest display of armed
resistance to the federal government until the Civil War. Approximately 150 prisoners were taken into custody, and Washington showed commendable clemency in
dealing with them. After two rebel leaders were tried and sentenced to death, Washington, drawing on this constitutional power for the ﬁrst time, pardoned both men.
Throughout the ordeal, he had shown consummate judgment, acting with ﬁrmness
and moderation, trying diplomacy ﬁrst but then, like a stern parent, preparing to
dole out punishment. Given the giant scale of the protest and the governmental
response, there had been remarkably few deaths. In a classic balancing act, he had
conferred new luster on republican government, showing it could contain largescale disorder without sacriﬁcing constitutional niceties, and his popularity only
grew in consequence.
The aftermath of the Whiskey Rebellion led to a dramatic shift in Washington’s

Crowns and Coronets r! 727

cabinet. If the episode augmented Republican fears about Hamilton’s inﬂuence, the
treasury secretary had a surprise in store for them. On December 1, the same day
he returned to Philadelphia, he notiﬁed Washington that he planned to relinquish
his Treasury post at the end of January, a decision possibly inﬂuenced by his wife’s
miscarriage in his absence. As the contrasting behavior of Hamilton and Knox during the Whiskey Rebellion made clear, Washington warmed to Hamilton because
the latter never let him down, never disappointed him, and always delivered in an
emergency. Washington had allowed no Republican diatribes against Hamilton to
weaken his opinion of a supremely gifted, if sometimes ﬂawed, public servant. Just
how highly Washington rated Hamilton was shown in the letter he wrote in accepting his resignation, an encomium that embraced both his wartime and his government service: “In every relation which you have borne to me, I have found that my
conﬁdence in your talents, exertions, and integrity has been well placed. I the more
freely render this testimony of my approbation, because I speak from opportunities
of information w[hi]ch cannot deceive me and which furnish satisfactory proof of
your title to public regard. My most earnest wishes for your happiness will attend
you in your retirement.”24 To replace Hamilton, Washington elevated the comptroller of the treasury, Oliver Wolcott, Jr., the Connecticut lawyer who had earlier been
the department’s auditor.
Even as the Whiskey Rebellion deepened the bond between Washington and
Hamilton, it appeared to dissolve the almost-twenty-year connection between
Washington and Knox. Underscoring his displeasure with Knox, Washington sent
him few letters that fall. In early December Knox told a friend that he contemplated
stepping down at the end of the month, a decision only strengthened by another
episode. On December 23 Senator Pierce Butler complained to Washington about
abuses committed during the construction of the new U.S. frigates. In forwarding
this letter to Knox, Washington was notably brusque, merely saying, “I request that
strict inquiry may be instituted into the matter and a report thereupon made to
me.”25 Knox knew how to read his chief ’s subtleties. On December 28 he submitted
his resignation to Washington, beginning the letter with the frosty “Sir” instead of
the customary “Dear Sir.” In explaining his decision, Knox cited the claims of “a
wife and a growing and numerous family of children” and tried to end on a personal note. “But in whatever situation I shall be, I shall recollect your conﬁdence
and kindness with all the fervor and purity of affection of which a grateful heart
can be susceptible.”26
Where Washington had accepted the resignations of Hamilton and even Jefferson with “Dear Sir” letters, he addressed Knox as “Sir.” He made no effort to
urge him to stay in ofﬁce, and his letter, while correct, did not begin to capture the
former warmth of their relationship: “I cannot suffer you, however, to close your

72 8

r! The Pr esident

public service without uniting, with the satisfaction which must arise in your own
mind from a conscious rectitude, my most perfect persuasion that you have deserved well of your country. My personal knowledge of your exertions . . . justiﬁes
the sincere friendship which I have ever borne for you and which will accompany
you in every situation of life.”27 One senses that Washington was trying to temper
old gratitude with recent disenchantment. He had never made personal excuses
for himself at times of crisis and apparently had little tolerance for Knox’s doing
so. It is hard to avoid the impression that Washington thought Knox had behaved
negligently during the whiskey crisis, and Knox was never fully reinstated in his
good graces.
For Knox’s successor, Washington chose Timothy Pickering, a curmudgeonly
character who, during his wartime stint as adjutant general, was critical of Washington. In 1791 the president had chosen him as postmaster general and also employed
him periodically on diplomatic missions to the Indian nations. The choices of Wolcott and Pickering conﬁrmed that Washington could not duplicate the quality of his
ﬁrst-term team and was moving toward a more overtly Federalist cabinet. After the
ﬂap over the Democratic-Republican Societies and his estrangement from Jefferson, Washington began to think that he deserved absolute loyalty from department
heads and could no longer strive for political balance. The departures of Jefferson,
Hamilton, and Knox only made Washington long more wistfully for the solace of
Mount Vernon. In January 1795 he told Edmund Pendleton that “altho[ugh] I have
no cause to complain of the want of health, I can religiously aver that no man was
ever more tired of public life, or more devoutly wished for retirement, than I do.”28
Unfortunately, the cabinet turnover pushed the day of retirement ever further into
a cloudy future.

chapter sixty

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Mad Dog

Ev e n w i t h t h e be n e f i t of h i n dsigh t, George Washington insisted that,
in sending John Jay to England, he had selected the person best qualiﬁed to ensure
peace. Because of long delays in transatlantic communications, Washington had
no precise notion of the deal Jay was hammering out in London and warned his
emissary that “many hot heads and impetuous spirits” wished him to speed up his
work.1 While not wanting to rush Jay, he reminded him, quoting his beloved Shakespeare, that “there is a ‘tide in human affairs’ that ought always to be watched” and
that he should proceed with all possible haste.2 By February 1795 reports made the
rounds in Philadelphia that Jay had concluded a treaty and would shortly arrive on
American shores.
On March 3, with Congress set to adjourn, Washington notiﬁed legislators that
he would convene a special session on June 8 to debate the treaty, which would
surely arrive in the interim. As it happened, four days later the document sat on his
desk. Washington must have quietly gagged as he pored over its provisions, which
seemed heavily slanted toward Great Britain. The treaty failed to stem the odious
British practice of seizing American sailors on the high seas. Shockingly, it granted
British imports most-favored-nation status, even though England did not reciprocate for American imports. Once the treaty was revealed, it would seem to many
as if Jay had groveled before his British counterparts in a demeaning throwback to
colonial times. The treaty would strike southerners as further damning proof that
Washington was a traitor to his heritage, for Jay had failed to win compensation for
American slaves carted off at the end of the war. For all that, the treaty had several
redeeming features. England ﬁnally consented to evacuate the forts on the Great

7 30

r! The Pr esident

Lakes; it opened the British West Indies to small American ships; and it agreed to
compensate American merchants whose freight had been conﬁscated. And these
concessions paled in comparison to the treaty’s overriding achievement: it arrested
the fatal drift toward war with England. On balance, despite misgivings, Washington thought the ﬂawed treaty the best one feasible at the moment.
Fully aware of its explosive contents, Washington elected to shroud the treaty in
“impenetrable secrecy,” as Madison termed it, until Congress reconvened in June. By
the time the Senate debated it, Jay had returned from England, having been elected
in absentia governor of New York. (He would shortly resign as chief justice.) It was
not an auspicious homecoming for Jay. The Senate had agreed to debate the treaty in
secret, but Republicans gasped in horror as they perused its contents. Its fate seemed
uncertain until the Federalists granted the Republicans a critical concession: they
would oppose the notorious Article XII, which limited American trade in the British West Indies to ships under seventy tons. Strengthened by this compromise, the
treaty effectively passed the Senate in late June by a 20-to-10 vote, the bare minimum
needed under the Constitution’s two-thirds rule. The next step would be for Washington to sign the treaty, which caused him an agony of indecision.
In early July, word came that the British had issued bellicose new orders to seize
ships laden with food bound for France. Having crafted delicate compromises to
steer the treaty through the Senate, Washington was appalled at British insensitivity
and protested to resident minister George Hammond. Washington felt sufﬁciently
jittery about signing the treaty that he privately asked Hamilton, now returned
to legal practice in Manhattan, to aid him with a high-level crib sheet. Evidently
Washington and Hamilton had not been in touch, since Washington admitted that
he did not know how Hamilton had been occupied of late. “My wishes,” Washington explained, “are to have the favorable and unfavorable side of each article stated
and compared together, that I may see the bearing and tendency of them and, ultimately, on which side the balance is to be found.”3 That Washington turned to
Hamilton for guidance reﬂects his lack of conﬁdence in his newly installed cabinet
and his continuing reliance on Hamilton as his economic tutor. When Hamilton
was treasury secretary, Washington had had to keep him at arm’s length, juggling
him against Jefferson, but he had no such inhibitions with Hamilton out of ofﬁce.
Despite reservations about the Jay Treaty, Hamilton provided Washington with a
generally laudatory ﬁfty-three-page analysis, urging him to sign the highly imperfect document. Amazed at the breadth of this sparkling dissection, Washington in
his reply sounded sheepish about having inadvertently taken up so much of Hamilton’s time.
Before he put his signature on the treaty, Washington was preparing to publish it
when the Aurora printed a précis on June 29 that left the public so aghast that Madi-

Mad Dog r! 7 3 1

son said the treaty “ﬂew with an electric velocity to every part of the union.”4 On
July 1 the paper issued the complete text, and an ofﬁcial version ran in the Federalist
Gazette of the United States. The uproar was overwhelming, tagging Jay as the chief
monster in the Republicans’ bestiary. In the treaty, Republicans saw a blatant partiality for England and equally barefaced hostility toward France. Critics gave way
to full-blown paranoid fantasies that Jay, in the pay of British gold, had suborned
other politicians to introduce a monarchical cabal. Some protests bordered on the
obscene, especially a bawdy poem in the Republican press about Jay’s servility to the
British king: “May it please your highness, I John Jay / Have traveled all this mighty
way, / To inquire if you, good Lord, will please, / to suffer me while on my knees, / to
show all others I surpass / In love, by kissing of your ———.”5 By the July Fourth celebrations, Jay had been burned in efﬁgy in so many towns that he declared he could
have traversed the entire country by the glare of his own ﬂaming ﬁgure.
The targets of the protest went far beyond Jay. At a rally in New York, when
Hamilton rose to defend the treaty, protesters hurled stones at him, while in Philadelphia a menacing mob descended on George Hammond’s residence, smashed
the windows, and “burned the treaty with huzzahs and acclamations.”6 Treaty opponents had no compunctions about besieging the presidential mansion, and John
Adams remembered it “surrounded by an innumerable multitude from day to day,
buzzing, demanding war against England, cursing Washington, and crying success
to the French patriots and virtuous Republicans.”7 From across the country, inﬂammatory resolutions against the treaty piled up on Washington’s desk, many of them
too obnoxious to warrant replies. “No answer given. The address too rude to merit
one,” Washington scrawled atop a New Jersey petition, while he chided another
from Virginia thus: “Tenor indecent. No answer returned.” On still another from
Kentucky, he scribbled: “The ignorance and indecency of these proceedings forbade
an answer.”8 Though tepid in his enthusiasm for the treaty, Washington was not
prepared to go to war with England and thought the treaty would prevent a harmful deterioration in Anglo-American trade.
In mid-July Washington left sultry Philadelphia for a breathing spell at Mount
Vernon, enduring a debilitating six-day journey in “hot and disagreeable” weather.9
If he hoped to escape the brouhaha over the Jay Treaty, he was disabused when
Secretary of State Randolph reported on the spreading commotion and some preposterous accusations against Washington. One newspaper writer had charged
that the president “insidiously aims to dissolve all connections between the United
States and France and to substitute a monarchic for a republican ally.”10 Washington felt powerless to stop this sometimes-ludicrous barrage of falsehoods. Owing
to “party disputes,” he complained to Pickering, the “truth is so enveloped in mist
and false representations that it is extremely difﬁcult to know through what chan-

7 32

r! The Pr esident

nel to seek it.”11 Washington was especially pleased when his ex–treasury secretary
launched a lengthy series of essays under the signature of “Camillus,” providing a
detailed defense of the Jay Treaty. Washington gave way to gloomy musings about
republican government, viewing his Republican opponents as full of passionate
intensity—“always working, like bees, to distill their poison”—while government
supporters were either cowed or spineless, trusting too much to the good sense of
the people.12
Such was the hubbub over the treaty that at the end of July Washington debated whether to hurry back to Philadelphia to deal with its critics. “At present,”
he told Hamilton, “the cry against the treaty is like that against a mad dog and
everyone, in a manner, seems engaged in running it down.”13 The Mount Vernon
weather seemed emblematic of the political storm he faced: extremely violent rains
destroyed crops and washed away bridges, impeding Washington’s communications with his cabinet. Both Randolph and Pickering sent Washington urgent pleas
to return, but Pickering inserted a cryptic reference that must have mystiﬁed the
president. The secretary of war said that due to “a special reason, which can be communicated to you only in person, I entreat therefore that you will return with all
convenient speed to the seat of government.”14 Even more startling was Pickering’s
admonition that Washington should refrain from making any important political
decisions until he arrived in Philadelphia.
The “special reason” proved to be nothing less than suspicions that Secretary of
State Edmund Randolph was engaged in treason. The maddeningly vague and ambiguous charges arose in a roundabout fashion. In late October the French minister,
Jean-Antoine Fauchet, sent a secret dispatch to his superiors in France, summarizing conversations with Randolph about the Whiskey Rebellion. According to Fauchet, Randolph intimated that if France handed over thousands of dollars, he could
induce certain Pennsylvania ofﬁcials to resolve the whiskey dispute on terms beneﬁcial to French interests. He also hinted that certain ﬂour merchants, if relieved
of their indebtedness to English creditors, could reveal that England had fomented
the rebellion. Talking as if Randolph might have extorted a bribe, Fauchet wrote,
“Thus, the consciences of the pretended patriots of America have already their scale
of prices! . . . What will be the old age of this government, if it is thus early decrepit!”15 When a British warship captured the French vessel carrying this message,
Fauchet’s letter was routed to London and then rerouted to George Hammond in
Philadelphia, who was told to show it to “well disposed persons in America” when
a convenient time arose.16 That opportunity presented itself on July 28, 1795, when
Hammond shared the incriminating letter with Treasury Secretary Wolcott, who
brought it to the scandalized attention of Pickering. The latter then dashed off his
mysterious missive to Washington. At the very least the Fauchet dispatch showed

Mad Dog r! 7 33

Randolph voicing strong pro-Republican sentiments, disloyal to Washington’s administration, and grossly exaggerating his inﬂuence over the president.
After returning to Philadelphia, Washington asked Pickering to come and speak
with him, and coincidentally, the latter arrived while Washington was enjoying a
convivial dinner with none other than Randolph. Picking up a glass of wine, Washington excused himself and ushered Pickering into an adjoining room. When the
door was shut behind them, Washington asked, “What is the cause of your writing
me such a letter?” Motioning toward the other room, Pickering blurted out his bald
accusation: “That man is a traitor!” Washington listened in thunderstruck silence.
When Pickering was through, Washington said calmly, “Let us return to the other
room to prevent any suspicion of the cause of our withdrawing.”17 Washington did
not immediately confront Randolph. The next morning the main topic of a cabinet
meeting was whether Washington should sign the Jay Treaty, and he announced his
intention to do so. Whether suspiciously or not, Randolph was the only cabinet ofﬁcer who opposed it, having already introduced numerous objections to the document. In retrospect, he came to believe that the revelation of his supposed treachery
had led Washington to overcome his earlier doubts and endorse the treaty.
For a full week Washington proceeded with business as usual, dropping no hints
to Randolph of any mistrust he harbored. Washington, who never did anything
lightly, tried to anticipate all the political repercussions of the affair. He examined
thoroughly the question of whether the incriminating letter, or just damaging parts,
should be published. “A part, without the whole, might be charged with unfairness,”
he advised Wolcott and Pickering. “The public would expect reasons for the sudden removal of so high an ofﬁcer.”18 He knew Republicans would try to convert
Randolph into a political martyr, sacriﬁced for his opposition to the Jay Treaty, and
that the Fauchet letter would be dismissed as a transparent excuse for getting rid of
him. On the evening of August 18, to forestall suspicions of what was afoot, Washington included Edmund Randolph among his dinner guests. Although he asked
Randolph to arrive at his ofﬁce at ten-thirty the next morning, he had Wolcott and
Pickering come earlier to devise a strategy for dealing with him. They fell back on
a standard technique of detective work: they would hand Randolph the Fauchet
dispatch and closely watch his expression as he absorbed its contents. This would
be “the best means of discovering his true situation” and ﬁguring out his line of
defense.19
When Randolph entered, Washington reacted in a formal manner, producing
the dispatch from his pocket. “Mr. Randolph,” he announced, “here is a letter which
I desire you to read and make such explanations as you choose.”20 Although Randolph reddened, he kept his composure and scanned it in silence. Then he lifted his
eyes and told Washington that the letter must have been intercepted. Washington

734

r! The Pr esident

nodded in conﬁrmation. “I will explain what I know,” said Randolph, who denied
having solicited or received money from the French. He would be glad to commit
his defense to paper, he asserted, if he could retain the letter. “Very well,” Washington replied, “retain it.”21 At Washington’s invitation, Pickering and Wolcott began to
interrogate their colleague, a prosecutorial grilling that rattled Randolph.
At one point Washington asked Randolph to step outside while he, Pickering,
and Wolcott remained closeted. As they appraised Randolph’s behavior, they were
all struck that he had remained so collected during their confrontation. Nevertheless, when Randolph returned, his composure had suddenly crumbled. When
Washington asked how quickly he could come up with a written defense, Randolph
grew indignant. “As soon as possible,” he replied hotly, blustering that he “couldn’t
continue in the ofﬁce one second after such treatment.”22 With that, he turned on
his heels and left. Washington accepted his resignation, the ﬁrst time a cabinet
member had left involuntarily. The next day Washington informed Randolph that
as long as he was trying to clear his name, Washington would keep an open mind
and the matter would remain strictly conﬁdential.
It was an uncertain time in the capital, with scattered reports of yellow fever
ﬂaring up again, a fear heightened by uncommon summer heat. The tactless, abrasive manner in which Randolph handled his defense strengthened Washington’s
conviction of his guilt. Randolph stalled in producing an explanation, leading
Washington to speculate that his strategy was “to gain time, to puzzle, and to try
if he cannot discover inconsistencies in the conduct of others relative to it.”23 In a
move that Washington found unforgivable, Randolph published letters to him in
the opposition press before sending them to him ﬁrst. Characteristically, Washington worried that his own integrity might be impugned and gave Randolph permission to publish “any and every private and conﬁdential letter I ever wrote you,” as
well as every word he ever uttered to him.24 What most infuriated Washington was
that Randolph upbraided him for being in league with the Federalist party. Washington reminded Randolph of the countless times he had heard him “lament from
the bottom of my soul that differences of sentiments should have occasioned those
heats which are disquieting a country otherwise the happiest in the world.”25 Randolph found Washington’s tone so abhorrent that a week later, writing to Madison,
he faulted the president for “profound hypocrisy” and having practiced “the injustice of an assassin” against him.26
On December 18 Randolph published a 103-page pamphlet called A Vindication
that presented a fairly credible defense against the bribery charge but made offensive
remarks about Washington, who was stung to the quick. As soon as he saw the pamphlet, Washington exclaimed in disgust, “He has written and published this,” ﬂinging
it to the ﬂoor.27 Washington felt deeply betrayed by Randolph. Out of friendship for

Mad Dog r! 7 35

his uncle, Peyton Randolph, Washington had aided the young man and pushed him
forward, and this was his reward. In trying to ﬁgure out how to minimize political damage, Washington consulted Hamilton. Although Hamilton found it hard to
muzzle his opinions in political disputes, he knew that silence was Washington’s preferred method and that presidential dignity reinforced that need. “It appears to me
that by you no notice can be or ought to be taken of the publication,” he wrote back.
“It contains its own antidote.”28 Indeed, even Republicans found the Vindication’s
tone misguided; Jefferson confessed to Madison that while it exonerated Randolph
of the bribery charges, “it does not give . . . high ideas of his wisdom or steadiness.”29
Washington thereafter referred to Randolph as a rascal or a villain.
Bereft of trustworthy advisers that summer, Washington turned to John Adams
more than before and praised the diplomatic acumen of his son, John Quincy, the
precocious young minister to Holland. Washington held the young man’s talents
in such high regard that he predicted that, before too long, John Quincy would be
“found at the head of the Diplomatic Corps.”30 With Edmund Randolph’s resignation, Washington began a long and dispiriting search for a successor. As with all
appointments, he handled the correspondence himself without any apparent assistance from aides. A disillusioned Washington capitulated to the reality that he could
no longer tolerate appointees “whose political tenets are adverse” to his own policies.31 He had had enough with gross disloyalty from his cabinet. But he then suffered the indignity of having ﬁve candidates in succession turn down the secretary
of state job—William Paterson, Thomas Johnson, Charles Cotesworth Pinckney,
Patrick Henry, and Rufus King. Honorable in his dealings, Washington informed
each candidate of the previous refusals. By the time he approached Patrick Henry,
fourth on the list, he experienced mounting frustration: “I persuade myself, Sir, it
has not escaped your observation that a crisis is approaching that must, if it cannot
be arrested, soon decide whether order and good government shall be preserved or
anarchy and confusion ensue.”32 After the fourth rebuff, Washington spilled out his
woes to Hamilton, asking plaintively, “What am I to do for a Secretary of State?”33
When Hamilton sounded out Rufus King for the post, the latter spurned the offer
because of “the foul and venomous shafts of calumny” now directed at government
ofﬁcials.34
To ﬁll the vacancy, Washington ﬁnally shifted the prickly Timothy Pickering
from war to state. Instead of warming to this plum assignment, Pickering accepted
it to spare Washington any further embarrassment. Devoted to Hamilton, Pickering adhered to that true-blue wing of the Federalists known as High Federalists. To
plug the resulting vacancy at the War Department, Washington was again reduced
to the unseemly position of peddling a cabinet post and was stymied three times
before James McHenry accepted. A doctor by training, McHenry had served as a

736

r! The Pr esident

wartime aide to Washington, a member of the Confederation Congress, and a delegate to the Constitutional Convention. Fond of McHenry, Washington had sung
his praises as a young man of “great integrity . . . an amiable temper, very obliging, and of polished manners.”35 Whatever his merits, McHenry’s talents did not
measure up to the post, as Washington soon learned. “I early discovered after he
entered upon the duties of his ofﬁce that his talents were unequal to great exertions
or deep resources,” Washington later admitted to Hamilton. “In truth, they were
not unexpected for the fact is, it was a Hobson’s choice.”36 With a second-string
cabinet of Wolcott, Pickering, and McHenry, Washington had purged it of apostasy
but had also exchanged creative ferment for mediocrity; the numerous rejections
had given him little choice. With this cabinet overhaul, Republicans regarded the
Federalist triumph as complete, and a forlorn Madison asked Jefferson rhetorically,
“Through what ofﬁcial interstice can a ray of republican truths now penetrate to
the P[resident]?”37
A few days after Washington’s confrontation with Randolph, Attorney General
William Bradford died, saddling Washington with yet another appointment. Eager
to restore a geographic mix to his cabinet, he turned to John Marshall, the tall,
handsome Virginian destined to stand out as the foremost legal mind of the age.
“When future generations pursue the history of America,” Washington once said,
“they will ﬁnd the name of Marshall on its sacred page as one of the brightest
ornaments of the age in which he lived.”38 In approaching Marshall, Washington
appealed to self-interest as well as loftier goals, noting that in Philadelphia Marshall
could supplement his income with “a lucrative practice.”39 Marshall still declined.
When Washington then considered Colonel Harry Innes for the job, he said that
Innes’s reputation for extreme laziness did not disqualify him, since “the ofﬁce of
attorney general of the U[nited] States does not require constant labor or attention.”40 Washington ended up choosing Charles Lee as attorney general (not to be
confused with the wartime general with whom Washington feuded). Even though
Washington had emphasized the job’s part-time nature, Lee left Philadelphia so
often that Washington warned him that “unpleasant remarks” were made about his
continual absences as well as charges that he had made “a sinecure of the ofﬁce.”41
Even the choice of a new chief justice to replace John Jay became the source of
endless wrangling. Neither busy nor prestigious, the Supreme Court did not yet
attract top legal minds. Perhaps for that reason, Hamilton turned down Washington’s invitation to become the new chief justice. Washington then proposed John
Rutledge of South Carolina, who served brieﬂy as chief justice through a recess
appointment but whose nomination was ultimately defeated by partisan sniping in
the Senate. Washington then named William Cushing of Massachusetts, already an
associate justice on the Court. Cushing was conﬁrmed by the Senate but considered

Mad Dog r! 7 3 7

himself too old and inﬁrm for the job and surrendered it a week later. In the end
Washington selected Oliver Ellsworth of Connecticut, who, as a senator, had been
the main architect of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which shaped the federal court system. A former judge of the Connecticut Superior Court, Ellsworth was conﬁrmed
on March 4, 1796, and, to Washington’s vast relief, remained in place past the end
of his second term.

I n Se p t e m be r 1795 , at an inopportune moment, Lafayette’s adolescent son
materialized in America, confronting Washington with an excruciating dilemma.
Escorted by his tutor, Félix Frestel, George Washington Lafayette came armed with
a letter to his godfather, hoping to involve the president more deeply in efforts to
liberate his father. The once-dashing Lafayette père had grown gaunt and deathly
pale from years in hellish dungeons, suffering from swollen limbs, oozing sores, and
agonizing blisters. He was to remain persona non grata for the ﬁve-man Directory
that governed France after the end of the Reign of Terror. However strongly he
felt, Washington was reluctant to receive young Lafayette for fear of offending the
French government, especially after the Jay Treaty furor. Beyond his ofﬁcial duty to
safeguard American interests, Washington dreaded that any move might worsen the
precarious plight of Lafayette’s wife in France, and he was openly stumped about
what to do. “On one side, I may be charged with countenancing those who have
been denounced the enemies of France,” Washington conﬁded to Hamilton. “On
the other, with not countenancing the son of a man who is dear to America.”42
When Washington received a letter from Senator George Cabot, announcing
young Lafayette’s arrival in Boston, he reassured the boy that he would be like a
“father, friend, protector, and supporter” to him privately but would have to remain
steadfastly discreet in public. Many French émigrés having congregated in Philadelphia, Washington could not afford to invite young Lafayette to the capital, where
he might be spotted on the streets, so he asked Cabot to enroll his godson temporarily at Harvard College, “the expense of which, as also of every other mean
for his support, I will pay,” Washington emphasized.43 Anxious to gauge the political response to the boy’s presence, Washington adopted a watchful posture. His
fondness for Lafayette had not lessened one jot. “My friendship for his father,” he
insisted to Cabot, “so far from being diminished, has increased in the ratio of his
misfortune.”44
That fall young Lafayette traveled incognito to New York to visit Alexander
Hamilton. Washington told the boy that Hamilton was “warmly attached” to his
father because of their wartime camaraderie and that he could rely on his friendship.45 Paralyzed by indecision, Washington took the extraordinary step of telling

738

r! The Pr esident

Hamilton that he should converse with the boy about what to do. Washington was
plainly tortured by his predicament. When young Lafayette failed to reply to his letter, Washington concluded glumly that he must be furious. “Have you seen or heard
more of young Fayette since you last wrote to me on that subject?” Washington
wrote dolefully to Hamilton. “ . . . His case gives me pain and I do not know how to
get relieved from it.”46 Washington’s response shows both his ardent devotion
to Lafayette and his rigorous self-discipline as a politician when U.S. interests were
at stake.
In replying to Washington, Hamilton informed him that Lafayette junior was
staying with him and would remain there through the spring; nevertheless he
thought Washington should invite the boy to visit him. This advice threw Washington into a painful quandary. In response, he made a shrewd political move—for the
ﬁrst time in a long while, he consulted James Madison: “I wish to know what you
think (considering my public character) I had best do to fulﬁll the obligations of
friendship and my own wishes without involving consequences.”47 In this manner
Washington not only previewed Republican reactions but also forced Republicans
to share responsibility in the matter. Until mid-February Washington wrestled with
the issue, then asked Hamilton to send the boy and his tutor to see him in Philadelphia, “without avowing or making a mystery of the object.”48 He stalled in the
exact timing, however, suggesting that the two young Frenchmen should come in
early April, when “the weather will be settled, the roads good, and the traveling
pleasant.”49 In the meantime the boy’s presence in America had a galvanizing effect on Washington, who sent word to the Austrians, via their London ambassador,
that Lafayette’s freedom was “an ardent wish of the people of the United States, in
w[hi]ch I sincerely add mine.”50
Once Washington received young Lafayette, he displayed boundless generosity
toward him. Discarding earlier caution, he informed Madison that if circumstances
permitted, he would take the boy “with his tutor into my family and, in the absence of his father, to superintend his education and morals.”51 The sight of the boy
and the “visible distress” on his face deeply moved Washington.52 After hearing his
heartrending pleas on his father’s behalf, Washington decided, strictly as a private
person, to dispatch a handwritten letter to the Austrian emperor, requesting that
Lafayette be released and allowed to come to America.
Washington delivered on his pledge to bring young Lafayette and his tutor into
the household as long as Lafayette senior was imprisoned. Not surprisingly, Washington grew extremely fond of his young ward, whom he found “a modest, sensible,
and deserving youth.”53 The boy was tall, kindly, and charming and delighted all
who met him. Like his father before him, he made rapid strides in English, surpassing even his tutor. When architect Benjamin Latrobe stopped by Mount Vernon for

Mad Dog r! 7 39

dinner, he was very taken with young Lafayette’s savoir faire: “His manners are easy
and he has very little of the usual French air about him . . . and seemed to possess
wit and ﬂuency.”54 Latrobe noticed that the president doted on the youth: “A few
jokes passed between the President and young Lafayette, whom he treats more as
his child than as a guest.”55 The situation was further testimony to Washington’s
hidden emotional nature and his capacity to incorporate young people into his
household as surrogate children. Young Lafayette and Félix Frestel remained with
the Washingtons until October 1797, when word arrived that Lafayette had been
freed after ﬁve years in prison. The two young men decided to sail back to Europe
with all due speed. In a touching farewell, George Washington Lafayette wrote to
his godfather how grateful he was for his efforts to rescue his real father and how
happy he had been to form a temporary part of his family. Washington fully reciprocated the feeling. When young Lafayette was reunited with his father, he handed
him a letter from Washington, who said that young Lafayette was “highly deserving
of such parents as you and your amiable Lady.”56 The boy’s family were astonished
at how much he had grown, not to mention his striking resemblance to his father.
Instead of coming to America, however, the impoverished Lafayette and his nomadic family spent the next two years wandering across northern Europe, living in
Hamburg, Holstein, and Holland.

ch ap ter si x t y-one

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

T he Colossus of the People

A m i d t h e t r ava i l ov e r t h e Jay Tr e at y, Washington was able to claim a
spectacular diplomatic breakthrough with Spain. Settlers in the western hinterland
had long chafed at Spanish restrictions on shipping their produce down the Mississippi River. Frustrated with governmental inaction, Kentucky residents threatened
to secede from the Union, prompting President Washington to post Thomas Pinckney to the Spanish court as envoy extraordinary. In October 1795, in the Treaty of
San Lorenzo, Pinckney won the right for Americans to use the Mississippi freely
and trade in the port of New Orleans. The treaty also gave the United States ironclad guarantees that the waterway deﬁned the nation’s western border, a signature
achievement for a president whose spacious vision of America had always stressed
westward expansion. The Spanish treaty coasted to victory.
In contrast, Washington continued to face a hue and cry over the Jay Treaty,
which had been ratiﬁed by King George III but still lacked funding for major provisions. Having stood by helplessly as it cleared the Senate, House Republicans
jumped at the chance to wreck the treaty through their budgetary powers. The
boldest challenge arose from Edward Livingston of New York, who introduced a
resolution demanding that Washington lay before Congress Jay’s original instructions and subsequent correspondence about the treaty. When the resolution passed
the Republican-dominated House in March 1796, it opened up a constitutional can
of worms. Did the resolution represent legislative encroachment on the executive
branch? Did it undermine powers granting the president and Senate the exclusive
right to make foreign treaties? And could the president assert executive privilege to
protect the conﬁdentiality of such internal deliberations?

The Colossus of the People r! 74 1

Washington smarted at what he deemed a dangerous threat to presidential prerogative. “From the ﬁrst moment,” he confessed to Hamilton, “and from the fullest conviction in my own mind, I had resolved to resist the principle w[hi]ch was
evidently intended to be established by the call of the House of Representatives.”1
Characteristically, despite ﬁerce misgivings, he dispassionately polled his cabinet
members, who unanimously advised resistance to the House resolution. To buttress his arguments, Washington requested a brief from Hamilton, who supplied
an ample memorandum on the wisdom of withholding treaty papers. Now nearing
the end of his second term, Washington thanked Hamilton tenderly, as if wishing
to acknowledge his many years of loyal service, saying that he wanted to “express
again my sincere thanks for the pains you have been at to investigate the subject
and to assure you, over and over, of the warmth of my friendship and . . . affectionate regard.” He signed the letter “I am your affectionate . . .”2 Such emotional
ﬂourishes were highly unusual in the often straitlaced correspondence of George
Washington.
In defying House Republicans, Washington delivered a stern lecture on the legal
issues involved, reminding lawmakers that the Constitution restricted treaty-making
powers to the president and the Senate, conﬁning deliberations to a handful of
people to ensure secrecy. He had already shared the relevant papers with the Senate.
He lectured the legislators, “To admit then a right in the House of Representatives
to demand . . . all the papers respecting a negotiation with a foreign power would
be to establish a dangerous precedent.”3 Only in case of impeachment was the president duty-bound to disclose such papers to the House. In private, Washington insisted that House Republicans tried “at every hazard to render the treaty-making
power a nullity without their consent; nay worse, to make it an absolute absurdity.”4
He even expounded the Constitution to its chief architect, James Madison, whom
he saw as reversing views he had expressed at Philadelphia in 1787. The debate had
evolved into a colossal clash of personalities over a mighty principle. So bloody was
the clash and so ferocious its rhetoric that Washington believed the public mind
agitated “in a higher degree than it has been at any period since the Revolution.”5
During this bruising dispute, House Republicans, for the ﬁrst time, held a caucus, giving a new institutional reality to the party split between Jeffersonians and
Hamiltonians. After Washington won the debate over the Jay Treaty papers, House
Republicans launched a prolonged campaign to starve the treaty by refusing to appropriate money for it. For Republicans, the treaty controversy was a stalking horse
for a deeper political aim, deﬁned by John Beckley, clerk of the House and a key
strategist, as opening the way for “a Republican president to succeed Mr. Washington.”6 At ﬁrst Madison imagined that the Jay Treaty would be the Achilles’ heel of
the administration, but as the debate dragged on and it gained new adherents, an

74 2

r! The Pr esident

outﬂanked Madison admitted to Jefferson that “our majority has melted” thanks to
the machinations of “Tories” and “monarchists.”7 Either from concern over the constitutional implications or because of a groundswell of treaty support from constituents, Republican congressmen slowly backed down and defected to Washington’s
side. John Adams took comfort that Madison, having staked so much on the outcome, was being ground down by the struggle: “Mr. Madison looks worried to death.
Pale, withered, haggard.”8 Madison himself conceded that it was “the most worrying
and vexatious” political battle of his career, and it was to prove a losing one.9
When it came down to a vote on April 30, 1796, the Federalists got the House
to approve money for the Jay Treaty by a wafer-thin margin of 51 to 48. Madison,
shocked by the outcome, thought of retiring to his plantation. The crisis that was
supposed to strengthen the Republican cause had instead “left it in a very crippled
condition,” he informed Jefferson.10 Washington, who believed that Madison and
his followers had “brought the Constitution to the brink of a precipice,” felt immense relief, intermingled with thinly veiled anger.11 After this wounding debate,
an indignant Washington cut off further contact with Madison and never again
invited him to Mount Vernon. Many Federalists predicted, prematurely as it happened, that James Madison had ruined his career. William Cobbett, a Federalist
gadﬂy, was among those who wrote an early obituary for him. “As a politician, he
is no more. He is absolutely deceased, cold, stiff, and buried in oblivion for ever
and ever.”12
Jefferson’s relationship with Washington also suffered from the momentous
events of that spring. Where Jefferson had wanted Washington to stay on as president for a second term, he now dismissed him as the unwitting tool by which
corrupt, elitist Federalists duped the common people. As he told Monroe, the Federalists “see nothing can support them but the colossus of the president’s merits
with the people, and the moment he retires, . . . his successor, if a monocrat, will be
overborne by the republican sense of his constituents.”13 As far as Jefferson was concerned, Washington stood forth as an unmovable obstacle to reform. He preached
patience to his followers: “Republicanism must lie on its oars, resign the vessel to
its pilot,” and wait for Washington to exit the scene.14 Since Jefferson’s political philosophy was based on faith in the common people, Washington’s persisting popularity thrust him into the uncomfortable position of being at odds with the people’s
apparent choice.
Now convinced that the two-faced Jefferson had plotted against him in the
shadows, Washington no longer labored under any illusions about him. His ire
surfaced that summer when Jefferson wrote to deny being the source of conﬁdential information published in the Aurora. He also disclaimed making malicious remarks about Washington, as reported by an unnamed person—apparently Henry

The Colossus of the People r! 743

Lee. In responding on July 6, 1796, Washington dispensed with the ﬁne points of
diplomacy. As the dam burst, his stiﬂed bitterness poured forth, and he confronted
Jefferson more openly than ever before. Stating that he had previously had “no
conception that parties” could go to such lengths, he claimed he had been viliﬁed
in “indecent terms as could scarcely be applied to a Nero, a notorious defaulter, or
even to a common pick-pocket.”15 Even though he had done his utmost “to preserve this country from the horrors of a desolating war,” he was still charged with
“being the enemy of one nation [France] and subject to the inﬂuence of another
[Great Britain].”16 He noted that he had long defended Jefferson against charges of
duplicity, invariably replying that he had “never discovered anything in the conduct
of Mr. Jefferson to raise suspicions in my mind of his insincerity.”17 Now, he said
starkly, “it would not be frank, candid, or friendly to conceal that your conduct has
been represented as derogatory from that opinion I had conceived you entertained
of me. That to your particular friends and connections you have described . . . me
as a person under a dangerous inﬂuence; and that if I would listen more to some
other opinions, all would be well.”18 Washington seldom resorted to such frankness
or so pointedly dressed down an ex-colleague, conﬁrming that their relationship
now lay beyond redemption. He ended by saying that he had “already gone farther
in the expression of my feelings than I intended” and changed the subject to more
gentlemanly topics, such as clover, wheat, and peas.19
In the aftermath of the Jay Treaty, the diatribes against Washington reached a
new pitch of savagery as his foes were emboldened to disparage his presidency and
blacken his wartime reputation. In the Aurora, Benjamin Franklin Bache dredged
up moldy British forgeries from the war, purporting to show that Washington had
pocketed bribes from the enemy and was a double agent for the Crown. Washington
was not the only family member crestfallen over these vicious attacks. The British
minister’s wife noted that Abigail Adams “has spirit enough to laugh at [Bache’s]
abuse of her husband, which poor Mrs. Washington could not.”20 Such was the bitter discord that many Republicans stopped drinking toasts to the president’s health
after dinner.
With the Jay Treaty, Washington had made good on his solemn oath to maintain
peace and prosperity during his presidency. British evacuation of the northwestern
posts triggered new settlements in the Ohio Country, including Cleveland, Dayton, and Youngstown. The skies darkened considerably on the diplomatic front,
however, as rumors ﬁltered back to Washington that the French government, incensed over the treaty, contemplated sending a ﬂeet to American waters to seize
ships bound for Great Britain. In time France would make good on the threats,
launching the Quasi-War against the United States during the presidency of John
Adams. Washington would privately castigate Republicans for instigating France,

74 4

r! The Pr esident

which was “endeavoring with all her arts to lead” the United States into war on her
side.21 To Hamilton, Washington issued a ringing manifesto of his foreign policy
creed: “We will not be dictated to by the politics of any nation under heaven farther
than treaties require of us . . . If we are to be told by a foreign power . . . what we
shall do, and what we shall not do, we have independence yet to seek.”22
Another casualty of the treaty fracas was Washington’s relationship with James
Monroe, who had fought with him at Trenton. “He has in every instance,” Washington then declared, “maintained the reputation of a brave, active, and sensible
ofﬁcer.”23 In appointing Monroe as minister to France in 1794, Washington aimed
to reduce tensions between Federalists and Republicans. As a protégé of Jefferson
and Madison, however, Monroe threw aside any pretense of neutrality, showed blatant favoritism toward the French, and allowed himself to be embraced by leading
French politicians. According to Washington, Monroe had also tried to pry loose
advance details of the Jay Treaty to give the French an unauthorized preview and,
instead of allaying French anger over the treaty, actively incited it. When Monroe
published in the Aurora an anonymous piece critical of Washington, entitled “From
a Gentleman in Paris to His Friend in the City,” Washington quickly ﬁgured out
its author. (Wolcott and Pickering had somehow obtained a copy of the original
letter.) In July 1796 he recalled Monroe and replaced him with Charles Cotesworth
Pinckney, leaving Monroe mortiﬁed at such treatment.24
Back in Philadelphia, still seething over his recall, Monroe published a 473-page
indictment of Washington’s handling of the incident called A View of the Conduct
of the Executive in the Foreign Affairs of the United States. Jefferson, who coached
Monroe on this diatribe, was delighted by the result. “Monroe’s book is considered
masterly by all those who are not opposed in principle, and it is deemed unanswerable,” he informed Madison.25 When Washington pored over the book, he not only
snorted with rage but scrawled in its margins sixty-six pages of sardonic comments.
These dense notes afford a rare glimpse of Washington in the grip of uncensored
anger. Responding to one comment by Monroe, he scoffed, “Self importance appears here.”26 In another aside, he wrote, “Insanity in the extreme!”27 Another time,
he mocked Monroe’s statement as “curious and laughable.”28 The gist of many of
Washington’s remarks was that French actions toward America had been motivated
by self-interest, not ideological solidarity, and ﬂouted American neutrality in seeking to enlist the United States in the war against England. The imbroglio with Monroe signaled the demise of yet another Washington friendship with a prominent
Virginian, a list that now encompassed George Mason, James Madison, Thomas
Jefferson, and Edmund Randolph.
Now that it was open season on Washington in the press, he took a pounding
from yet another Revolutionary War hero. Thomas Paine believed that Washington

The Colossus of the People r! 745

had made no effort to free him after he was imprisoned in France as a British-born
resident and a Girondin supporter who had opposed the execution of the king.
Having advanced a dubious claim to American citizenship, he accused Washington
of “connivance at my imprisonment.”29 He was ﬁnally released with help from Monroe, who then invited him to lodge in his residence. In October 1796 Paine published
in the Aurora an open letter to Washington, accusing him of “a cold deliberate crime
of the heart” in letting him rot in prison, and he also took dead aim at his command
of the Continental Army.30 “You slept away your time in the ﬁeld till the ﬁnances of
the country were completely exhausted,” he fumed, “and you have but little share
in the glory of the event.”31 Paine alleged that Horatio Gates and Nathanael Greene
deserved true credit for the patriots’ victory, abetted by French assistance: “Had it
not been for the aid received from France in men, money, and ships, your cold and
unmilitary conduct . . . would in all probability have lost America.”32
Not content to denigrate Washington’s military performance, Paine defamed
him as an unfeeling man, lonely and isolated, who ruthlessly crushed anyone who
crossed him. Among his associates, Paine contended, it was known that Washington “has no friendships; that he is incapable of forming any; [that] he can serve or
desert a man or a cause with constitutional indifference.”33 Paine ended with the
most vicious swipe of all: “As to you, sir, treacherous in private friendship (for so
you have been to me, and that in the day of danger) and a hypocrite in public life,
the world will be puzzled to decide whether you are an apostate or an impostor;
whether you have abandoned good principles, or whether you ever had any.”34 This
intemperate outburst cast more doubt on Paine’s erratic judgment than on Washington’s performance. In writing to Abigail, John Adams gave this verdict on Paine’s
letter: “He must have been insane to write so.”35

For a t i m e du r i ng h is pr e si de nc y, Washington had shunned the tedium
of sitting for portraits, but with the end now in sight, he was amenable to pictures
that might immortalize his waning days. Since the Revolutionary War, he had been
fond of Charles Willson Peale, the multifaceted artist who had opened an eccentric
museum in Philadelphia, a cabinet of curiosities crammed with exotic specimens
of natural history, coupled with a portrait gallery of wartime heroes. In 1795 the
artist’s son Rembrandt Peale, age seventeen, received a commission to paint the
president. Doubtless rewarding a faithful ally by posing for his son, Washington
agreed to three sessions with Rembrandt in Peale’s Museum, with each sitting lasting three hours. The president stipulated a seven a.m. starting time, and on the appointed day young Rembrandt rose at dawn, trembling with anxiety. So nervously
did the young man prepare for the sitting that he could scarcely mix his colors and

746

r! The Pr esident

decided to proceed only if his father sketched a portrait beside him, ensuring “that
the sitting would not be unproﬁtable by affording a double chance for a likeness.
This had the effect to calm my nerves, and I enjoyed the rare advantage of studying
the desired countenance whilst in familiar conversation with my father.”36 At the
second session, a third family member, James Peale, Charles’s brother, daubed a
miniature of Washington while two of Rembrandt’s brothers, Raphaelle and Titian,
knocked off sketches as well. Never before had Washington allowed two, much less
ﬁve, artists to record his image at the same time.
Gilbert Stuart, who was then painting his iconographic images of Washington,
happened to stroll by as Washington sat in thrall to the busy swarm of painting
Peales: “I looked in to see how the old gentleman was getting on with the picture,
and, to my astonishment, I found the general surrounded by the whole family.” As
Stuart walked away, he ran into Martha. “Madam,” said Stuart, “the general’s in a
perilous situation.” “How sir?” “He is beset, madam—no less than ﬁve upon him at
once; one aims at his eye—another at his nose—another is busy with his hair—the
mouth is attacked by a fourth; and the ﬁfth has him by the button. In short, madam,
there are ﬁve painters at him, and you who know how much he has suffered when
only attended by one, can judge of the horrors of his situation.”37
The two best-known portraits to emerge from these sessions tell a doleful tale
of George Washington late in his second term. In the Charles Willson Peale version, a suddenly older Washington sits in a dark velvet coat, with an upturned
collar and rufﬂed shirtfront. There is no sparkle in the immobile face, and his
drooping eyelids make him appear sleepily inactive. A bag has formed under his
left eye, which seems half shut, and the right eye does not open much wider. All
in all the portrait depicts a weary, dispirited president, fatigued after long years in
ofﬁce and depleted by the battle royal over the Jay Treaty. The Rembrandt Peale
portrait makes Washington seem a bit enfeebled and even more geriatric, his skin
parched with age. As he stares worriedly ahead, the lips of his wrinkled mouth are
tightly compressed with displeasure. Ironically, in his later years, Rembrandt Peale
painted heroic portraits of Washington in his Continental Army uniform, nobly
ﬁred by youthful energy.
In many ways, it was unfortunate that Gilbert Stuart’s lasting images of Washington date from this period, when the swagger and panache of his early days had
faded. Embittered by partisan feuding and feeling burdened by public life, Washington had made massive sacriﬁces to his country, and the luster had ﬂed from his
eye. Although Stuart captured the ineffable grandeur of the man, who sometimes
seemed to ﬂoat in a timeless realm, his images gave posterity a far more dour and
haggard Washington than the charismatic general known to contemporaries from
earlier times. Stuart was cognizant of the distortions that time had visited upon

The Colossus of the People r! 747

Washington. “When I painted him,” he said, “he had just had a set of false teeth
inserted, which accounts for the constrained expression so noticeable about the
mouth and lower part of the face.”38 To help rectify such distortions, he turned to
Houdon’s bust and life mask, but Stuart’s portraits still reﬂect the physiognomy of
the mid-1790s.
Already in the 1780s Washington had tired of artistic conventions that cast politicians in Roman togas. Averse to idealizing his subjects, Gilbert Stuart dressed them
in modern clothing and took a hard, cold look at them. So Stuart, for all the antics
and fast talk that may have irritated Washington, was very much to his taste as a
portrait painter. Only in the so-called Lansdowne portrait, where a visionary Washington stands with a ﬁxed gaze and stifﬂy outstretched arm, does Stuart resort to the
props of republican power, showing copies of The Federalist and the Constitution in
bound form at his feet. Perhaps the memories of a healthier and happier husband
predisposed Martha Washington to criticize Stuart’s work. “There are several prints,
medallions, and miniatures of the president in the house, none of which please Mrs.
Washington,” John Pintard wrote when he visited Mount Vernon in 1801. “She does
not think Stuart’s celebrated painting a true resemblance.”39 Stuart converted the
Washington portraits into a thriving industry, stamping out copies for so many years
that he laughingly referred to them as his hundred-dollar bills—that being the price
he charged for each. His daughter Jane contended that he could crank out a copy in
a couple of hours and sometimes ﬁnished two portraits in a single session.

A s pat e r fa m i l i a s of t h e c l a n, the president loved to shower his young
wards with sage advice, especially in affairs of the heart. Despite pressing political
concerns, he enjoyed playing the didactic role of the grizzled adviser. George and
Martha Washington were thrilled in 1795, when Fanny Washington, widowed by
George Augustine’s death, wed Tobias Lear, who had lost his wife, Polly, to yellow
fever. To bind them more closely, the Washingtons bestowed upon the young couple a rent-free house and 360 acres at Mount Vernon. Since Fanny had three children from her previous marriage and Tobias Lear a little boy from his, the wedding
seemed a fairy-tale solution for the grieving young couple. Then in March 1796 Lear
informed the Washingtons that Fanny had fallen gravely ill, and they were stunned
when she breathed her last. “Your former letters prepared us for the stroke,” the
Washingtons commiserated with Lear, “but it has fallen heavily notwithstanding.”40
For Martha Washington, who had been overjoyed by the marriage, touting Lear as
“a worthy man . . . esteemed by everyone,” it extended the dreadful pattern in her
life of the untimely death of children, both real and substitute.41
Another young woman who preoccupied Washington’s thoughts was Elizabeth

74 8

r! The Pr esident

Parke Custis, Nelly’s oldest sister, an attractive brunette raised by her mother and
David Stuart. The girl so adored her stepgrandfather that she was once paralyzed by
nerves when he descended for a visit. “The General said that, although he thought a
young girl looked best when blushing,” she recalled, “yet he was concerned to see me
suffer so much.”42 When requesting a portrait from Washington, she professed herself indifferent to love: “It is my ﬁrst wish to have it in my power to contemplate at
all times the features of one who I so highly respect as the Father of his Country and
look up to with grateful affection as a parent to myself and family.”43 While Washington obliged her with a miniature by Irish artist Walter Robertson, he teased her
gently and inquired whether “emotions of a softer kind” did not move her heart.44
Elizabeth’s desire to join the Washington household in Philadelphia in 1795 must
have ﬁlled the older couple with misgivings. However devoted she was to them,
she had a ﬁery temper and was cursed with what one aunt called “a violent and
romantic disposition.”45 That same aunt regretted that in “her tastes and pastimes,
she is more man than woman and regrets that she can’t wear pants.”46 When she
ﬁrst came to Philadelphia, she was sulky and querulous and boycotted church and
dances. Martha Washington, a conﬁrmed believer in social duties, could not sympathize with such morbid brooding. Washington, however, enjoyed Elizabeth’s company, and she accompanied him for sittings with Gilbert Stuart. One day, as Stuart
painted, Elizabeth abruptly barged into the room and, folding her arms across her
chest, cast an appraising look at his work. He was so struck by this self-assured pose
that he painted her in exactly this manner, holding a straw hat embellished with a
red ribbon. Her sidelong glance in the portrait is proud, spirited, and obstinate, as if
she refused to budge from the viewer’s glance. Elizabeth appeared indifferent to her
own beauty, as if it were something too trivial to occupy her attention.
In 1796 an Englishman twice her age, Thomas Law, revealed his plans to marry
her, a move that took the Washingtons by surprise, Elizabeth having concealed the
courtship. After running up a fortune in India, Law had come to America to dabble
in real estate and promptly bought ﬁve hundred lots in the new federal district.
Even before Washington knew he would someday have a familial connection with
Law, he had recoiled at the scale of these purchases. “Will it not be asked,” he inquired, “why are speculators to pocket so much money?”47 When Law apprised him
of his intention to marry Elizabeth, Washington was quietly livid and must have
known that he could not talk the stubborn Elizabeth out of the marriage. In replying to Law, he faulted him for the deceptive manner in which he had proceeded but
did not protest the marriage outright: “No intimation of this event, from any quarter, having been communicated to us before, it may well be supposed that it was a
matter of surprise. This being premised, I have only to add . . . my approbation, in
which Mrs. Washington unites.”48

The Colossus of the People r! 749

It was a typically shrewd response from Washington, who offered qualiﬁed support to Law while privately gathering more information about him. He confronted
Elizabeth gingerly, saying that she had “more honesty than disguise” in her nature
and should disclose more details of her engagement: “This I have a right to expect
in return for my blessing so promptly bestowed, after you had concealed the matter from me so long.”49 Wary of Law’s motives, Washington wrote on the sly to
Elizabeth’s stepfather, David Stuart, suggesting a strong prenuptial agreement that
would have Law “make a settlement upon her previous to marriage, of her own
fortune, if no more.”50 When the couple married in Virginia the next month, the
wedding was conducted in a studiously low-key style, devoid of dancing or festivities, as if the family had no wish to invest in premature celebration. The marriage
proved a misalliance, and the couple separated in 1803.
Elizabeth’s petulant nature threw into shining relief the sterling qualities of her
vivacious sister Nelly, who was so varied in her interests, including horseback riding, singing, playing the harpsichord, studying French, and drawing. One smitten
male visitor marveled that she “has more perfection of form of expression, of color,
of softness, and of ﬁrmness of mind than I have ever seen before.”51 With keen wit
she skewered her enraptured male admirers. When she heard false rumors that she
was romantically involved with one young man, she admitted that he had pleasing
manners but had “been told too often of his merit and accomplishments, and it has
given him more affectation than is by any means agreeable.”52 She mocked another
young man for his pseudoromantic babble about “hearts, darts, hopes, fears, heartaches” and other terms related to the “tender passion.”53 With such merciless comments, Nelly murdered the hopes of many young suitors, and it seemed unlikely she
would marry anytime soon.
Martha sometimes found Nelly a little unconventional for her tastes, but the
president adored her. Far more trying was his relationship with George Washington Parke Custis, who recapitulated his father’s history of academic apathy. He
had grown into a handsome teenager, crowned with curly hair, a broad face, and
large, attractive eyes. When Washy entered Princeton in the autumn of 1796—the
president thought the school had “turned out better scholars” and “more estimable
characters” than any other—the president didn’t know whether he would adjust to
the academic rigors or loaf his way through.54 As with Jacky, Washington smothered the young man with advice, warning him against idle amusements, dissipated
company, and hasty friendships. Trying to instill his own prudent habits, he told
him to “select the most deserving only for your friendships, and, before this becomes intimate, weigh their dispositions and character well.” 55 Washington’s vague
bromides about Washy becoming a scholar and a useful member of society seemed
like so much wishful thinking.

750

r! The Pr esident

Within six months of Washy’s arrival at Princeton, Washington was confronted
by disturbing reports from the boy’s tutor. “From his infancy, I have discovered
an almost unconquerable disposition to indolence,” Washington informed the
professor in words that echoed his chronic dismay with Jacky Custis.56 Like Jacky,
Washy apologized profusely for his misdemeanors and promised to reform. He assured Washington that “like the prodigal son,” he would be “a sincere penitent,”
but such noble intentions lasted only as long as it took the ink to dry.57 However
good-natured and ingratiating in his letters, Washy was, at bottom, feckless and
incorrigible. He would say all the right things, then do all the wrong things, and he
lasted only a year at Princeton.

Th e t wo - t e r m pr e si de nc y had taxed Washington in many ways, not least in
his personal ﬁnances. In March 1795, when his friend Charles Carter, Jr., approached
him for a thousand-dollar loan, Washington, always touchy about borrowing, burst
into a recitation of his ﬁnancial stringency: “My friends entertain a very erroneous
idea of my pecuniary resources . . . Such has been the management of my estate for
many years past, especially since my absence from home, now six years, as barely
to support itself.”58 He protested that his government allowance barely covered the
extravagant costs of entertaining and that he had resorted to selling western lands
to escape debt.
As he meditated on the end of his presidency, he mused about the prospect
of “tranquillity with a certain income” and decided to pursue his earlier scheme
of selling his western lands and leasing out the four Mount Vernon farms, while
retreating to the ﬁfth, the Mansion House, with Martha.59 On February 1, 1796, he
posted advertisements for the sale of thirteen tracts along three western rivers—
the Ohio, Great Kanawha, and Little Miami—amounting to a whopping 36,000
acres. These ads were posted in Philadelphia papers and well-frequented taverns
in western Pennsylvania. The properties dated from the distant period when the
young Anglophile ofﬁcer had received bounty lands for service in the French and
Indian War and had cornered aggressively the rights of fellow soldiers. In undertaking these sales, Washington harbored a secret agenda, hoping to use the proceeds to
help emancipate his slaves.
In recruiting able farmers to rent the four outlying farms, the Father of His
Country had so little faith in American farmers that he placed anonymous ads not
only in eastern newspapers but as far aﬁeld as England, Scotland, and Ireland. “My
wish is to get associations of farmers from the old countries, who know how . . . to
keep the land in an improving state rather than the slovenly ones of this [country],
who think (generally) of nothing else but to work a ﬁeld as long as it will bear any-

The Colossus of the People r! 75 1

thing,” he told William Pearce, Mount Vernon’s estate manager.60 He now resolved
to introduce the crop-rotation scheme that he had worked out on paper but that
his hapless overseers had never been able to put into practice. Having long known
that tobacco depleted the soil, he wanted to plant corn, wheat, clover, potatoes, and
grass in a scientiﬁc sequence.
Conscious that he would someday free his slaves, Washington wanted to avoid
doing anything that might interfere with that plan. His letters betray growing disgust with slavery, as when he told Pearce that “opulent” Virginians were made “imperious and dissipated from the habit of commanding slaves and living in a measure
without control.”61 However benevolent his intentions were, he remained a largely
absentee owner, able to exercise scant control over his overseers’ harsh practices, as
shown in one 1795 letter to Pearce: “I am sorry to ﬁnd by your last reports that there
has been two deaths in the [slave] family since I left Mount Vernon, and one of
them a young fellow. I hope every necessary care and attention was afforded him. I
expect little of this from McCoy, or indeed from most of his class, for they seem to
consider a Negro much in the same light as they do the brute beasts on the farms,
and often treat them as inhumanly.”62 Washington mentally divided his slaves into
productive ones who warranted favor and those unable or unwilling to work. When
Pearce distributed linen to slaves, Washington instructed him to provide the good
stuff “to the grown people and the most deserving, whilst the more indifferent sort
is served to the younger ones and worthless.”63
Whatever his shortcomings as a master, Washington continued to reﬁne his
plan to free his slaves someday. So long as he was president, the subject was taboo;
Washington told David Stuart that “reasons of a political, indeed of [an] imperious
nature” forbade any such action.64 He wrote these words during the brouhaha over
the Jay Treaty, when southern planters were especially upset over his policies and
he could not afford to antagonize them further. Starting in 1795, Washington’s letters reﬂect a growing preoccupation with knowing who were his dower slaves, over
whom he had no control, and those he owned outright and could free.
Washington’s plans to lease the four farms and simplify his future life came to
naught. Adding to his nagging economic uncertainty was the regretted departure
of William Pearce due to an “increasing rheumatic affection.”65 For the demanding
Washington, the seasoned Pearce had been a godsend, a man of reliable industry and integrity. In October 1796 Washington replaced him with James Anderson,
a native of Scotland well trained in agriculture, who would take the operations
at Mount Vernon in some unexpected directions. The switch, which came as the
president contemplated retirement, could only have exacerbated his worries about
the situation that awaited him at home.

ch ap ter si x t y-t wo

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

T he Master of Farewells

I n 179 6 Ge orge Wa sh i ngt on was often in a somber, pessimistic mood. One
visitor who encountered him on his sixty-fourth birthday that February said “he
seemed considerably older. The innumerable vexations he has met with in his different public capacities have very sensibly impaired the vigor of his constitution
and given him an aged appearance.”1 He had long fathomed the peculiar dynamics of fame, the way ﬁckle crowds respond ﬁrst with adulation and then scorn to
any form of hero worship. From partisan quarters, he was experiencing the rude
comeuppance he had long known hovered in the background. Patrick Henry was
shocked at his slanderous treatment: “If he whose character as our leader during the
whole war . . . is so roughly handled in his old age, what may be expected of men of
the common standard?”2
Nothing required Washington to leave ofﬁce—the Twenty-second Amendment,
limiting a president to two terms, was not ratiﬁed until 1951—but he had always
planned to remain as president only until the new Constitution had taken root,
never dreaming it would take a full two terms to reach that point. Despondent over
the Jay Treaty attacks, Washington had now ﬁrmly resolved to leave ofﬁce. Most
Federalists hoped he would stay in ofﬁce indeﬁnitely; John Jay exhorted him to
“remain with us at least while the storm lasts and until you can retire like the sun in
a calm, unclouded evening.”3 In reply, Washington alluded darkly to all the “trouble
and perplexities” he had endured, aggravated by the inﬁrmities of age, and said only
a national emergency would postpone his retirement.4
Where Washington had asked Madison to draft a farewell address in 1792 and
then stashed it in a drawer, he now turned to Hamilton as his preferred wordsmith

The Master of Farewells r! 753

for a valedictory message. On May 15 he sent the latter Madison’s address, along
with additions he himself had recently made to reﬂect the “considerable changes”
wrought by the intervening years.5 He dangled before Hamilton two options: either
edit and update Madison’s version or start afresh and “throw the whole into a different form.”6 It was not in Hamilton’s headstrong nature to bow to another scribe,
and while he would offer Washington a revised version of Madison’s 1792 address,
he also forged a magisterial new version of his own.
As always, Washington fretted over possible misinterpretations of his motives,
speculating that people might whisper he was leaving ofﬁce because of his “fallen
popularity and despair of being re-elected.” In his farewell statement, he wanted
Hamilton to refer to the earlier farewell address as irrefutable proof that, far from
hiding megalomaniacal ambitions, he had longed to return home. While the words
of this second farewell belonged to Hamilton, Washington deﬁned its overarching
themes and lent it his distinctive sound. He wanted the message written in a plain,
unadorned style, presenting a timeless quality and avoiding references to speciﬁc
personalities and events that had given rise to many observations.
In the past, Washington had been the circumspect personality and Hamilton
the hotheaded one. Now Hamilton became the man of impeccable judgment.
Washington’s additions to Madison’s draft had been laced with bitterness, wallowing in partisan squabbles. He had scribbled ill-advised lines about newspapers that
“teemed with all the invective that disappointment, ignorance of facts, and malicious falsehoods could invent to misrepresent my politics.”7 Noting his ﬁnancial
sacriﬁces, Washington had remarked petulantly that “if my country has derived no
beneﬁt from my services, my fortune, in a pecuniary point of view, has received no
augmentation from my country.”8 Hamilton rescued Washington from such petty
gripes and made the address coolly statesmanlike, the words of a self-assured man
speaking to posterity. It was the lofty Washington, not the wounded man smarting
with secret hurts, that Hamilton set out to capture.
Washington displayed tremendous anxiety about the timing of his farewell address. In late June, he told Hamilton that he regretted not having published it as
soon as Congress adjourned. Its postponement until the fall might lead people to
surmise “that I delayed it long enough to see that the current was turned against me
before I declared my intention to decline.”9 Hamilton pointed out the wisdom of
waiting until the fall in case a national emergency, especially a military clash with
France, forced him to reconsider a third term. “If a storm gathers,” Hamilton wondered, “how can you retreat?”10 To avoid interfering with the fall elections, Washington set a deadline of no later than October for publishing his farewell address.
At Mount Vernon that summer, Washington still licked his wounds over the
rabid commentary in the Aurora. “That Mr. Bache will continue his attacks on the

75 4

r! The Pr esident

government, there can be no doubt,” he told Treasury Secretary Wolcott, “but that
they will make no impression on the public mind is not so certain, for drops of
water will impress (in time) the hardest marble.”11 Because of Washington’s public
silence about his future plans, the presidential campaign played out in the shadows.
It was assumed that, if Washington retired, Vice President Adams would emerge as
the Federalist candidate for president, with Thomas Pinckney as his running mate.
Political propriety demanded that they await ofﬁcial word from Washington before
engaging in overt campaigning. By July it was also apparent that the Republicans
would run Jefferson for president, joined by Aaron Burr as vice president.
Hamilton toiled over the farewell address in deep secrecy. Instead of sending
his reactions through the mail, Washington, who thought his letters were being
opened, conveyed them to New York via personal couriers. When Washington received the two versions of the farewell address in early August, he immediately discarded Madison’s revised draft and opted for Hamilton’s new version. As a literary
stylist, Hamilton’s abiding sin had always been prolixity. Since the farewell address
was meant to be read in newspapers, not delivered as a speech, Washington objected to its length and asked Hamilton to trim it down. “All the columns of a large
gazette would scarcely, I conceive, contain the present draft,” he protested.12 Always
honest and self-critical, Washington saw that Hamilton had purged the address of
his own personal whining; he conceded that it was “more digniﬁed on the whole
and with less egotism” than the earlier version.13
Washington succeeded in keeping his farewell message a closely held secret. On
the morning of September 16, 1796, Tobias Lear appeared unexpectedly at the ofﬁce
of David Claypoole, who published a Philadelphia newspaper. In mysterious fashion, he told Claypoole that the president wanted to see him and promptly whisked
him off to the executive mansion, where he huddled alone with Washington in a
drawing room. There Washington disclosed the dramatic news that he was leaving
the presidency and wished his farewell address to appear in Claypoole’s American
Daily Advertiser. The two men agreed that the publisher would “usher it to the
world and suffer it to work its way afterwards” on Monday, September 19.14 That
weekend Washington corrected the proofs himself, right down to the punctuation
marks, and he graciously allowed Claypoole to retain the invaluable manuscript.
Even though Washington had given him exclusive rights to the address, it was
widely disseminated at lightning speed. That same afternoon three Philadelphia
papers jumped to print it, followed by a New York newspaper the next day, so that
Washington achieved something close to a synchronized, universal publication.
The address also appeared in pamphlet form.
An old hand at farewells, Washington, by design, rolled out of Philadelphia in
his coach and headed for Mount Vernon, just as local citizens began to consume

The Master of Farewells r! 755

his address. He wished the words to speak for themselves, without any elaboration
on his part. Washington never identiﬁed the document as his “farewell address,” a
label pinned on it by others. It appeared under the rubric “To the PEOPLE of the
UNITED STATES,” and began with the words “Friends and Fellow Citizens.”15 It
was the perfect touch, echoing the opening of the Constitution, “We the People
of the United States.” While Washington could have informed Congress of his resignation, he went instead to the source of all sovereignty, the people, just as the
Constitutional Convention had bypassed state legislatures and asked the people to
approve the document directly through ratifying conventions.
In the address, Washington started by mentioning the earlier farewell letter and
his hope that he could have retired sooner. The “increasing weight of years” had
now made withdrawal from ofﬁce necessary.16 After talking of the vicissitudes of
his presidency, he evoked America’s grand future, sounding the oracular strain he
had patented.17 In a paean to unity, he warned that national identity must trump
local attachments: “The name of American, which belongs to you, in your national
capacity, must always exalt the just pride of patriotism, more than any appellation
derived from local discriminations.”18 This continental perspective had informed
his work ever since the Revolution. Washington stressed the need to safeguard western territories from foreign encroachments, and without mentioning the Whiskey
Rebellion by name, he enunciated the need for law and order: “The very idea of
the power and the right of the people to establish government presupposes the
duty of every individual to obey the established government.”19 Instead of ﬂattering
the people, Washington challenged them to improve their performance as citizens.
Most of all he appealed to Americans to cling to the Union, with the federal government as the true guarantor of liberty and independence. As Joseph Ellis has written,
“In the Farewell Address, Washington reiterated his conviction that the centralizing
impulses of the American Revolution were not violations but fulﬁllments of its
original ethos.”20
As the address proceeded, it grew increasingly evident that Washington and
Hamilton directed their shafts at the Republicans in coded language. Their denunciations of “combinations and associations” that sought to counteract the constituted authorities recalled their earlier strictures against the Democratic-Republican
Societies. While such groups “may now and then answer popular ends, they are
likely, in the course of time and things, to become potent engines by which cunning, ambitious and unprincipled men will be enabled to subvert the power of
the people.”21 It was still hard for Washington to conceive of parties that were not
disloyal cabals against duly elected government. A party spirit exists in all types of
government, Washington observed, “but in those of the popular form, it is seen
in its greatest rankness and is truly their worst enemy.”22 For Washington, parties

756

r! The Pr esident

weren’t so much expressions of popular politics as their negation, denying the true
will of the people as expressed through their chosen representatives.
Although he said that debt should be used sparingly and paid down in times
of peace, Washington endorsed the Hamiltonian program. He warned against an
unreasonable aversion to taxes, without which the debt could not be retired—a jab
at those Jeffersonians who loudly took issue with the funded debt, then opposed the
whiskey tax and other measures designed to whittle it down. By asserting executive
vigor, his disclaimers notwithstanding, the farewell address placed Washington decidedly in the Federalist camp.
The genius of the farewell address was that it could be read in strictly neutral terms or as disguised pokes at the Jeffersonians. This was especially true when
Washington laid out his sweeping views on foreign policy, recycling many ideas advanced in promoting the Jay Treaty. Tacitly railing against Republican support for
France, he expounded a foreign policy based on practical interests instead of political passions: “The nation which indulges towards another an habitual hatred, or an
habitual fondness, is in some degree a slave.”23 Sympathy with a foreign nation for
purely ideological reasons, he said, could lead America into “the quarrels and wars
of the latter without adequate inducement or justiﬁcation.”24 He clearly had Jefferson and Madison in mind as he took issue with “ambitious, corrupted or deluded
citizens (who devote themselves to the favorite nation)” and “sacriﬁce the interests
of their own country.”25 Restating his neutrality policy, he underlined the desirability of commercial rather than political ties with other nations: “ ’Tis our true policy
to steer clear of permanent alliances with any portion of the foreign world.”26 It was
Jefferson, not Washington, who warned against “entangling alliances,” although the
concept was clearly present in Washington’s message.
For all the swipes at the opposition, Hamilton infused a placid tone into the address, replacing the bitter scold with the caring father. At the end Washington sounded
a little like Shakespeare’s Prospero, stepping off the stage of history. Whatever errors
he had committed, he hoped that “my country will never cease to view them with
indulgence and that, after forty-ﬁve years of my life dedicated to its service, with an
upright zeal, the faults of incompetent abilities will be consigned to oblivion, as myself must soon be to the mansions of rest.”27 It was ﬁtting that Washington closed by
conﬂating the end of his life with the termination of his public service.
In general, Americans applauded the farewell address. Washington had seen
himself as rising above partisanship, but some Republicans detected the barbs
aimed at their party, and the effect was perhaps more divisive than Washington
hoped. One visiting Frenchman resented its “marked antipathy to France and a
predilection for England,” while an opposition paper characterized Washington’s
words as “the loathings of a sick mind.”28 There was no mourning for Washington’s

The Master of Farewells r! 757

departure in the editorial ofﬁce of the Aurora, which had this to say about his retirement: “Every heart in unison . . . ought to beat high with exultation that the name
of Washington from this day ceases to give a currency to political iniquity and to
legalized corruption.”29 Well aware of the anti-Republican subtext of the address,
Madison voiced his displeasure to Monroe about Washington’s “suspicion of all
who are thought to sympathize with [the French] revolution and who support the
policy of extending our commerce” with France.30
An active guessing game arose as to who had composed the farewell address,
which remained a well-kept secret for many years. In 1805 Dr. Benjamin Rush inquired of John Adams, “Did you ever hear who wrote General W.’s farewell address to
the citizens of the United States? Major [Pierce] Butler says it was Mr. Jay. It is a masterly performance.”31 Jay had reviewed Hamilton’s draft and made suggestions but in
no way qualiﬁed as a coauthor. Eager to boost Washington’s standing, Hamilton and
other intimates kept their lips tightly sealed on the question of authorship. One day as
Hamilton and his wife ambled down Broadway in New York, they encountered an old
soldier hawking copies of the address. Buying a copy, Hamilton said amusedly to his
wife, “That man does not know he has asked me to purchase my own work.”32
Just as Washington feared, some observers attributed his departure to his dread
of a poor showing in the fall election. “He knew there was to be an opposition to
him at the next election and he feared he should not come in unanimously,” John
Adams remarked years later. “Besides, my popularity was growing too splendid,
and the millions of addresses to me from all quarters piqued his jealousy.”33 In a
still more paranoid vein, Adams surmised that Washington had retired because a
malign Hamilton wielded veto power over his appointees: “And this necessity was,
in my opinion, the real cause of his retirement from ofﬁce. For you may depend
upon it, that retirement was not voluntary.”34 Somewhat more objectively, Adams
noted how spent the sixty-four-year-old Washington was after his prodigious labors: “The times were critical, the labor fatiguing, many circumstances disgusting,
and he felt weary and longed for retirement.”35 This was much closer to the portrait
that emerges from Washington’s own letters.
To less envious eyes, Washington’s resignation represented another milestone in
republican government. Just as he had proved at the end of the war that he did not
lust for power, so his departure from the presidency elevated his moral standing
in the world. One encomium came from an unexpected quarter. By giving up ﬁrst
military and now political power, he stood out as “the greatest character of the age,”
according to George III, who had belatedly learned to appreciate his erstwhile enemy.36 Though it was not his main intention, Washington inaugurated a custom of
presidents serving only two terms, a precedent honored until the time of Franklin
Roosevelt. For opponents who had spent eight years harping on Washington’s sup-

75 8

r! The Pr esident

posed monarchical obsessions, his decision to step down could only have left them
in a dazed state of speechless confusion.

Th e mo s t f l agr a n t om is sion in Washington’s farewell statement was the
subject most likely to subvert its unifying spirit: slavery. Whatever his private reservations about slavery, President Washington had acted in accordance with the
wishes of southern slaveholders. In February 1793 he signed the Fugitive Slave Act,
enabling masters to cross state lines to recapture runaway slaves. He remained zealous in tracking down his own fugitive slaves, although like Jefferson, he didn’t care
to call attention to such activities. When a slave named Paul ran away in March 1795,
Washington, while approving measures to apprehend him, advised William Pearce
that “I would not have my name appear in any advertisement, or other measure,
leading to it.”37 He was especially worried about his name surfacing in northern
papers. Even in Philadelphia, Washington monitored the status of runaway slaves at
Mount Vernon. “I see by the last week’s report that Caesar has been absent six days,”
he asked Pearce in early 1796. “Is he a runaway? If so, it is probable he will escape
altogether, as he can read, if not write.”38
Beyond moral scruples, Washington found slave ownership a political embarrassment. During his second term, the Aurora taunted him by declaring that, twenty
years after independence, Washington still possessed “five hundred of the human
species in slavery.”39 On another occasion it mocked him as a hypocritical emblem of liberty, arguing that it “must appear a little incongruous then that Liberty’s
Apostle should be seen with chains in his hands, holding men in bondage.”40 This
was a dangerous game for Bache to play, since it could easily backﬁre on Jefferson
and Madison, two sizable slaveholders who ﬁgured as his populist champions. In
later correspondence with John Adams, Benjamin Rush served up this tidbit about
Washington: “Mr. Jefferson told me he once saw [Washington] throw the Aurora
hastily upon the ﬂoor with a ‘damn’ of the author, who had charged him with the
crime of being a slaveholder.”41 Federalist polemicists also exploited the slavery issue to excoriate Republicans and their southern base. “Oh, happy Carolina! Happy,
thrice Virginia!” wrote William Cobbett. “After having spent the day in singing
hymns to the Goddess of Liberty, the virtuous Democrat [i.e., Republican] gets
him home to his peaceful dwelling and sleeps with his property secure beneath his
roof, yea, sometimes in his very arms.”42
During their Philadelphia years, George and Martha Washington must have
wondered how long their slaves imported from Mount Vernon would remain loyal.
First there had been the ﬂap over the local law that liberated slaves after six months
of continuous residence. Slave masters often assumed that slaves brought north

The Master of Farewells r! 759

and exposed to free blacks were forever “tainted” by the experience; Washington
subscribed to the view that otherwise happy, contented slaves could be “tampered
with and seduced” by meddlesome northern abolitionists.43 Even though Washington favored abolition in theory, he thought that as long as slavery existed, his slaves
ought to cooperate in exchange for the food and shelter he provided.
Washington permitted his household slaves a modicum of freedom to roam the
city, sample its pleasures, and even patronize the theater. Household accounts for
June 1792 disclose expense money doled out for “Austin, Hercules & Oney to go to
the play.”44 In the spring of 1793 two of Martha’s maids were given money to attend
“tumbling feats,” followed by money to view a local circus. The two slaves most favored with such treats and held in highest esteem by the Washingtons were Ona (or
Oney) Judge, Martha’s maid, and Hercules, the master chef. One wonders whether
their ﬂeeting experiences of freedom in Philadelphia whetted their appetites for
permanent freedom. Washington must have known that their contacts with the
large community of free blacks in the capital could only strengthen their desire to
throw off the yoke of slavery.
A young mulatto woman, light-skinned and freckled, Ona Judge was the daughter of Andrew Judge, an indentured servant at Mount Vernon, and a slave named
Betty. She was Martha’s personal maid and widely known as her pet. Each morning
Ona brushed Martha’s hair, laid out her clothing, and assisted her with household
sewing. In the president’s words, Ona Judge was “handy and useful to [Martha],
being perfect mistress of her needle.”45 Naive about the true feelings of her slaves,
Martha assumed that, because Ona enjoyed a relatively privileged status as her personal chambermaid, she would never rebel against her bondage. In 1796 Ona, then
about twenty-two, realized that the Washingtons might soon return to Mount Vernon for good, eliminating any possibility of a ﬂight to freedom. As if the young
slave would be thrilled by the news, Martha mentioned to Ona one day that she
planned to bequeath her to her granddaughter Elizabeth, who was notorious for
her grim moods. Far from feeling ﬂattered, Ona felt deep terror at the prospect,
later saying with disdain that “she was determined not to be her slave.”46 Since “she
did not want to be a slave always,” she later recalled, “she supposed if she went back
to Virginia, she would never have a chance to escape.”47
As the Washingtons got ready for a return trip to Mount Vernon in May 1796,
Ona Judge set in motion her scheme to escape. While servants boxed belongings
for the trip, she used the preparations as camouﬂage to gather her things, and as
the Washingtons dined one evening, she slipped out of the executive mansion and
blended into the free black community. After lying low for a month, she sailed
north aboard a ship called the Nancy, staffed by a large contingent of black sailors,
and eventually wound up in Portsmouth, New Hampshire.

760

r! The Pr esident

When the Washingtons discovered the escape, they were convinced that Judge
would have ﬂed only if she had been cajoled by a wily seducer. They ﬂattered themselves into thinking that, as a supposedly contented slave, Judge would never have
pined for freedom if some intriguing fellow had not planted the forbidden idea.
They could not conceive of a slave being the agent of her own fate or running out
of a simple hunger for liberty. They felt obliged to denigrate any man who helped
her as an unscrupulous cad rather than someone who might have loved her and
honestly wanted to assist her.
The protracted hunt for Ona Judge began when a young woman, Elizabeth
Langdon, who had befriended Nelly Custis, spotted her in Portsmouth. When Langdon realized that Martha Washington was nowhere to be seen and that Judge had
escaped, she asked Judge, “But why did you come away? How can Mrs. Washington
do without you?” “Run away, misses,” Judge replied. “Run away!” said Langdon.
“And from such an excellent place! Why, what could induce you? You had a room
to yourself and only light nice work to do and every indulgence.” “Yes, I know, but
I want to be free, misses; wanted to learn to read and write.”48 Ona Judge, who had
stored up grievances that Martha Washington could little comprehend, afterward
complained that she had “never received the least mental or moral instruction of
any kind, while she remained in Washington’s family.”49
After Judge was spotted, Martha pressured her husband into wielding the powers of the federal government to recapture her. She felt miffed by Judge’s ﬂight
and could never understand why blacks felt no gratitude toward lenient masters.
As she once wrote to Fanny, “The blacks are so bad in their nature that they have
not the least gratitude for the kindness that may be showed to them.”50 Since the
Treasury Department ran the customs service and had ofﬁcers in every major port,
Washington wrote conﬁdentially to Secretary Wolcott, asking for aid. He explained
that Judge’s escape had “been planned by someone who knew what he was about
and had the means to defray the expense of it and to entice her off, for not the least
suspicion was entertained of her going or having formed a connection with anyone
who could induce her to such an act.”51 Abusing his presidential powers, Washington instructed Wolcott to have the Portsmouth customs collector kidnap Judge and
send her back to Virginia: “To seize and put her onboard a vessel bound immediately to this place [Philadelphia] or to Alexandria, which I should like better, seems
at ﬁrst view to be the safest and least expensive [measure].”52 Perhaps contributing
to Washington’s vigilance in hunting down Judge was that she was a dower slave,
which meant that he would have to reimburse the Custis estate for her loss.
As with runaway slave ads, Washington struggled to conﬁne knowledge of the
situation to Virginia and keep it from carping northern abolitionists—hence his
preference for whisking Judge off to Alexandria. Dreading publicity, he also con-

The Master of Farewells r! 7 61

vinced Martha that it would be unwise to post a fugitive slave notice. He apologized
to Wolcott for the trouble he was giving him “on such a triﬂing occasion, but the
ingratitude of the girl, who was brought up and treated more like a child than a
servant (and Mrs. Washington’s desire to recover her) ought not to escape with impunity if it can be avoided.”53 That the Washingtons faulted Judge for “ingratitude”
and pretended that she was like a daughter again shows the moral blindness of even
comparatively enlightened slave owners. Judge’s ﬂight belied whatever sedative fantasies the Washingtons might have had that slaves developed familial relations with
their masters, transcending the indignity of bondage.
The Portsmouth customs collector, Joseph Whipple, tracked down Judge and, to
lure her aboard a ship bound for Virginia, cooked up a bogus story about employing her to work for his family. Then something unaccountable happened: Whipple
engaged in conversation with Judge and discovered that “she had not been decoyed
away, as had been apprehended, but that a thirst for complete freedom . . . had been
her only motive for absconding.”54 Remarkably, Judge said that she was prepared to
return to servitude, but only if her emancipation were guaranteed at a later date.
In Whipple’s words, “she expressed great affection and reverence for her master
and mistress and, without hesitation, declared her willingness to return and serve
with ﬁdelity during the lives of the president and his lady if she could be freed on
their decease, should she outlive them; but that she should rather suffer death than
return to slavery and [be] liable to be sold or given to any other persons.”55 Perhaps
doubtful that any slave master could really be trusted, Judge’s friends in Portsmouth
persuaded her to rescind her offer to return to Mount Vernon.
When Washington heard about the bargaining, he dismissed such negotiations
as “totally inadmissible.”56 He found himself tangled in the coils of a terrible contradiction: just as he meditated the emancipation of all his slaves, he was trying to
return one of them to bondage. Abashed, he told Whipple that “however well disposed I might be to a gradual abolition, or even to an entire emancipation of that
description of people (if the latter was in itself practicable at this moment), it would
neither be political or just to reward unfaithfulness with a premature preference and
thereby discontent beforehand the minds of all her fellow servants, who by their
steady attachments are far more deserving than herself of favor.”57 In other words,
Washington insisted that, as long as slavery existed, he must obey its cruel logic. He
and Martha clung to the self-serving tale that Judge had “been seduced and enticed
off by a Frenchman” who had roguishly sated his lust and then discarded her.58 Unwilling to compromise, Washington demanded that Judge either return voluntarily
and “be forgiven by her mistress” or be put “on board a vessel bound either to Alexandria or the Federal City,” conveniently bypassing Philadelphia.59 In a telling concession, Washington instructed Whipple to forget about capturing Judge if forcibly

7 62

r! The Pr esident

abducting her served to “excite a mob or riot.”60 Shortly to leave ofﬁce, Washington
wanted no incident that might tarnish his departure, especially since he feared that
Judge might be pregnant, which would only augment public sympathy for her escape. The evocation of a possible mob or riot suggests how abolitionist sentiment
had spread in the New England states, so that Washington deﬁed it at his peril.
Ona Judge never returned to slavery or the South. In late December Joseph
Whipple informed Washington that she would shortly get married, making a
mockery of Washington’s scenario of a cunning Frenchman who had duped and
impregnated her. That January she married a “colored sailor” named John Staines,
and about a year later they had a daughter, the ﬁrst of three children, proving that
Judge had not been pregnant at the time of her ﬂight. Despite this news, Martha
refused to let the matter drop. During the summer of 1799, when she learned that
her nephew, Burwell Bassett, Jr., was traveling to Portsmouth, the news led to one
last attempt to recapture Judge. While instructing Bassett to shy away from doing
anything “unpleasant or troublesome,” Washington told him that if Judge could be
brought back by “easy . . . and proper means . . . it would be a pleasing circumstance
to your aunt.”61 Bassett located Judge, who was now a mother, and assured her that
no punishment would occur if she returned. Apparently she had heard rumors that
Bassett would seize her and her child by force, if necessary, and she would not be
coaxed back into bondage. “I am free now and choose to remain so,” she declared,
settling the matter for good.62
The other slave who shocked the Washingtons by his disappearance was Hercules, who was owned directly by the president. We recall that he had noisily protested
his loyalty to Washington over the issue of the six-month slave law in Pennsylvania.
Hercules oversaw a mixed staff of slaves and indentured servants who worked in a
separate kitchen building, attached to the executive residence by an underground
passage. Being top chef for the president carried high status, and the dandyish Hercules, who was partial to black silk waistcoats, coats with velvet collars, cocked hats,
and gold-headed canes, relished his eminence around town. He also appreciated
the money he made from selling kitchen leftovers, spending it on fancy clothes,
watches, and shoe buckles. One Mount Vernon visitor got this report of the headstrong Hercules: “The cook who rejoiced in the name of Hercules was . . . something of a tyrant, as well as a capital cook.”63
The freedom that Hercules enjoyed in Philadelphia could only have made
more oppressive the prospect of returning to Virginia, emboldening him to escape.
Around the time that Washington left the presidency, Hercules suddenly disappeared. Although Washington made efforts to retrieve him, they were neither as
systematic nor as prolonged as with Ona Judge. For one thing, he knew that Hercules had friends in the local black community who could hide him and that with his

The Master of Farewells r! 7 63

culinary skills he could easily make a living. George and Martha Washington did
not seem to feel as personally betrayed by Hercules’s ﬂight as by Judge’s, perhaps
because he was an older and more independent personality who had nothing to
gain by remaining a slave now that the presidency had ended.
In January 1798 Washington sent a pair of notes to Frederick Kitt, a household
steward during his presidency, laying out secret plans for recapturing Hercules. As
with Judge, Washington wanted to have Hercules hustled aboard a ship bound for
Alexandria “with a strict charge to the master not to give him an opportunity of escaping.”64 Washington showed implicit respect for Hercules’s shrewdness, warning
Kitt that if he gets “the least hint of the design, he would elude all your vigilance.”65
Although Kitt made inquiries and veriﬁed Washington’s hunch that Hercules had
indeed lingered in Philadelphia, the ex-slave was never caught and succeeded in
winning his freedom. He paid a hefty price for it. He left behind his son Richmond,
who had been sent back to Mount Vernon for allegedly stealing money, possibly the
prelude to a joint escape with his father. He also had to say goodbye to a six-yearold daughter at Mount Vernon. When a French visitor confronted the little girl as to
whether she was upset at her father’s action, she retorted, “Oh! Sir, I am very glad,
because he is free now.”66
After the Washingtons returned to Mount Vernon in March 1797, the kitchen
was a hectic, demanding place that had to handle the sudden advent of unexpected
guests. Hercules’s ﬂight threw the household into turmoil, and extensive inquiries
were made to ﬁnd a skilled cook to replace him. Martha wrote despondently to
Eliza Powel, “The inconvenience I am put to since the loss of my cook is very great
and rendered still more severe for want of a steward, who is acquainted with the
management of such like matters.”67 Not a moment too soon, Washington found
Eleanor Forbes, an English widow, to function as housekeeper and help supervise
the kitchen. Washington told his nephew Bushrod that Martha had been “exceedingly fatigued and distressed for want of a good housekeeper.”68 For Washington,
the search for a new slave cook ran into an insurmountable problem: it would force
him to break his rule of not buying new slaves. “The running off of my cook has
been a most inconvenient thing to this family,” he told a relative, “and what renders
it more disagreeable is that I had resolved never to become the master of another
slave by purchase; but this resolution, I fear I must break.”69 Washington did not
stop to savor the irony here: Hercules would have had to remain a slave in order for
Washington to make good on his pledge to end his purchases of slaves. However,
the Washingtons could ﬁnd no slave who replicated what the talented Hercules had
done for many years and so decided to make do with Mrs. Forbes.

ch ap ter si x t y-thr ee

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Exiting the Stage

I n t h e l a st y e a r of Washington’s presidency, James Sharples executed portraits of the ﬁrst couple in the proﬁle format that was his trademark. The George
Washington he sketched still stood out as a powerfully commanding presence, with
a long, pointed nose and thick sideburns that curled down almost to the chin line.
Washington applied pomade to the hair that bulged from both sides of his face,
making it wavy and shiny, while he drew the remaining hair straight back in military style and tied it in a big black bow, as he had done since the French and Indian
War. Judging by the Sharples portrait, the years had been less kind to Martha. Time
had sharpened her chin and made her nose more aquiline, and her strangely shaped
headgear only emphasized the irregularity of her face.
Washington worked up the energy for one ﬁnal address to Congress. Donning
his black velvet suit and strapping his dress sword to his hip, he strode into the
House on December 7, 1796, and discovered the gallery packed “with the largest assemblage of citizens, ladies, and gentlemen ever collected on a similar occasion.”1 In
his thirty-minute address, he crowed about Britain’s evacuation of the northwestern forts and the liberation of American prisoners in Algiers. He also expounded on
the need for a military academy, a vision later fulﬁlled at West Point, and issued a
stirring plea for a national university in the new capital. Only in the ﬁnal paragraph
did Washington strike a private note, saying the present occasion aroused memories of “the period when the administration of the present form of government
commenced.”2
For the most part, the speech was well received, although the lone congressman from the new state of Tennessee, Andrew Jackson, who was enraged by the Jay

Exiting the Stage r! 7 65

Treaty, refused to salute the departing chief or join in the congressional response
applauding him. The Aurora enjoyed bidding good riddance to Washington. “If
ever a nation has suffered from the improper inﬂuence of a man,” it intoned, “the
American nation has suffered from the inﬂuence of Washington.”3 Nor did many
Republicans any longer feel the need to cloak their disenchantment with Washington. “The retirement of General Washington was a cause of sincere, open, and
indecent rejoicing among the French party in the United States,” one Federalist
reported. “The real friends of this country . . . considered the loss of Washington’s
personal inﬂuence a public calamity.”4 A small anecdote speaks volumes about the
lethal political atmosphere. After Washington published the farewell address, Federalists in the Virginia House of Delegates introduced a motion hailing “the virtue,
patriotism, and wisdom of the President of the United States.” In a deliberate snub,
the Republicans lobbied to delete the word wisdom from the resolution, prompting
John Marshall to lead the battle to retain the disputed noun. “Will it be believed that
the word was retained by a very small majority?” he later said. “A very small majority
in the legislature of Virginia acknowledged the wisdom of General Washington.”5
As soon as the farewell address was published, the presidential campaign got
under way in earnest. In many respects, Washington had made it difﬁcult for the
Federalists to emerge as a genuine national party. With his exalted stature, he never
wanted to dirty his ﬁngers with lowly organizational matters or countenance that
detestable thing called a party; he wanted merely an association of like-minded
gentlemen. His unassailable popularity also made it unnecessary for the Federalists
to develop the broad-based popular leadership that Republicans had developed under the tutelage of Jefferson and Madison. The opposition had attained a powerful
cohesion simply by sustained resistance to administration policies.
The 1796 election was the ﬁrst contested presidential campaign in American
history. With 71 electoral votes, Adams became the president, narrowly edging out
Jefferson, with 68 votes. Since Jefferson nosed out Adams’s “running mate,” Thomas
Pinckney, with 59 votes, he became vice president under rules governing the Electoral College at the time. At a presidential reception that December, Martha Washington, privy to rumors of Adams’s victory, pressed his hand in congratulation and
said how pleased Washington was. As a glowing Adams reported to Abigail, “John
Adams never felt more serene in his life.”6 At ﬁrst, the mixed ticket seemed to promise a less partisan era, and people cited the importance of the friendship of Adams
and Jefferson, dating back to Revolutionary days. More presciently, Fisher Ames
saw an impending collision between the new president and vice president: “Two
presidents, like two suns in the meridian, would meet and jostle for four years, and
then vice would be ﬁrst.”7
Thomas Jefferson believed that George Washington had led a charmed life,

7 66

r! The Pr esident

stealing credit from the more deserving while sticking them with his blunders. This
envy was reﬂected in a comment he made to Madison that January: “[Washington]
is fortunate to get off just as the bubble is bursting, leaving others to hold the bag.
Yet, as his departure will mark the moment when the difﬁculties begin to work, you
will see that they will be ascribed to the new administration and that he will have
his usual good fortune of reaping credit from the good acts of others and leaving
to them that of his errors.”8 Embittered by his dealings with Washington, Jefferson
clearly thought that the ﬁrst president had been terribly lucky and overrated. By
1814 Jefferson would arrive at a more balanced verdict on Washington: “On the
whole, his character was, in its mass, perfect, in nothing bad, in few points indifferent; and it may truly be said, that never did nature and fortune combine more
perfectly to make a man great.”9
During a Philadelphia winter so frigid that residents skated on an ice-encrusted
Delaware River, Washington ended up pioneering in one last area: how to behave as
a lame duck president. Like later presidents, he endured an excruciating round of
farewell parties, balls, dinners, and receptions. Though harassed by the ﬁnal duties
of public ofﬁce, he seemed rejuvenated as the albatross was slowly lifted from his
shoulders. Sick of party rancor, homesick for Mount Vernon, he craved a little privacy before he died. Martha too looked forward to the retirement that had always
been her fond but forlorn dream.
Washington’s last birthday in ofﬁce, his sixty-ﬁfth, was crammed with festivities, including an “elegant entertainment” at Ricketts’ Amphitheater, followed by a
dinner and ball “which for splendor, taste, and elegance was perhaps never excelled
by any similar entertainment in the United States,” judged Claypoole’s newspaper.10
The vast gathering of twelve hundred guests took place in the cavernous circus hall,
ﬂoored over for dancing. Like the couple atop a wedding cake, George and Martha
Washington sat on a raised couch beneath a canopy and periodically descended to
mill about with guests. Washington indulged in one last bout of gallantry with the
ladies when he rose to present his toast: “May the members thereof [the dancing assembly] and the Fair who honor it with their presence long continue the enjoyment
of an amusement so innocent and agreeable.”11 Showing her esteem for the outgoing president, Elizabeth Powel emerged from extended mourning for her husband
and appeared radiant in a black velvet dress. There was no question that George
and Martha, overcome by emotion, felt that an epic saga was ending. “Mrs. Washington was moved even to tears with the mingled emotions of gratitude for such
strong proofs of public regard and the new prospect of uninterrupted enjoyment of
domestic life,” a Judge Airedale reported to his wife. “ . . . I never saw the president
look better or in ﬁner spirits, but his emotions were too powerful to be concealed.
He could sometimes scarcely speak.”12

Exiting the Stage r! 7 6 7

On March 2, in one of his last acts in ofﬁce, Washington wrote a condolence
note to Henry Knox for his loss of three children. Perhaps moved by his old friend’s
pitiable plight, he sought to repair the unfortunate damage inﬂicted on their long
friendship by the Whiskey Rebellion. When he returned to Mount Vernon, Washington planned to travel no more than twenty miles from home again, which would
sever him forever from old friends. This led him to say to Knox, “I am not without
my regrets at parting with (perhaps never more to meet) the few intimates whom I
love, among these, be assured, you are one.”13
The next day, his last in ofﬁce, Washington toiled under ﬁerce pressure to sign
legislation dumped on his desk at the last minute. The Constitution gave the president ten days to sign bills, and Washington resented that legislators had allowed
him “scarcely an hour to revolve the most important” ones, as he protested to Jonathan Trumbull. “But as the scene is closing with me, it is of little avail now to let it be
with murmurs.”14 At the end he struck a note of serenity, a faith that the American
experiment, if sometimes threatened, would prevail. While fearful of machinations,
he told Trumbull, “I trust . . . that the good sense of our countrymen will guard the
public weal against this and every other innovation and that, altho[ugh] we may
be a little wrong now and then, we shall return to the right path with more avidity.”15 It was an accurate forecast of American history, both its tragic lapses and its
miraculous redemptions.
On March 4, inauguration day, Washington did not even bother to mention the
event in his diary, preferring to jot down the temperature. “Much such a day as yesterday in all respects. Mercury at 41,” says the entry in its entirety.16 Shortly before
noon, dressed in a suit of solemn black, he marched alone to Congress Hall. As he
approached the building and entered the House chamber, the cheers and applause
of an immense multitude showered down on him. Jefferson next appeared in a blue
frock coat and sauntered down the aisle in his loose-limbed style. President-elect
Adams then disembarked from a splendid new coach operated by servants in livery.
As he made his way into the chamber and up to the dais, he wore a pearl-colored
suit with wrist rufﬂes and a powdered wig and toted a cockaded hat. Looking sleepless, harried, and a little overwhelmed, he glanced over at Washington, who seemed
to be shedding his wordly cares. “A solemn scene it was indeed,” Adams wrote, “and
it was made affecting to me by the presence of the General, whose countenance was
as serene and unclouded as the day. He seemed to me to enjoy a triumph over me.
Methought I heard him say, ‘Ay! I am fairly out and you fairly in! See which of us
will be happiest!’”17 From the outset, Adams confronted a tough assignment: any
president who followed Washington was doomed to seem illegitimate for a time, a
mere pretender to the throne.
After introducing Adams, Washington read a short farewell message, ﬁlling the

7 68

r! The Pr esident

silent hall with an overwhelming sense of sadness. The country was losing someone who had been its constant patriarch from the beginning. Adams said that the
weeping in the galleries surpassed the sobbing of any audience at a tragic play. “But
whether it was from grief or joy,” he wondered aloud to Abigail, “whether from the
loss of their beloved president or . . . from the novelty of the thing . . . I know not.”18
A woman named Susan R. Echard captured the scene’s emotional intensity: “Every
now and then there was a suppressed sob. I cannot describe Washington’s appearance as I felt it—perfectly composed and self-possessed till the close of his address.
Then, when strong nervous sobs broke loose, when tears covered the faces, then the
great man was shaken. I never took my eyes from his face. Large drops came from
his eyes.”19 It was one last proof, if any were now needed, of just how emotional the
man of marble was beneath the surface. After taking the oath of ofﬁce, administered by Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth, President Adams talked of Washington as
someone who had “secured immortality with posterity.”20 Doubtless relieved that
he was no longer the protagonist of the American drama, Washington ended the
inauguration ceremony with an exquisite gesture: he insisted that President Adams
and Vice President Jefferson exit the chamber before him, a perfect symbol that
the nation’s most powerful man had now reverted to the humble status of a private citizen.
Afterward Washington walked from the executive mansion to the Francis Hotel,
where President Adams was temporarily staying, and he became aware of a tremendous throng of people surging around him. “An immense company,” said one
observer, had gone “as one man in total silence as escort all the way.”21 When Washington reached the hotel and turned around, the crowd saw that his face was again
washed with tears. “No man ever saw him so moved,” said a second observer.22 In a
very Washingtonian feat, he touched the crowd by simply staring at them in silence
before disappearing into the hotel.
Like Washington, Adams viewed himself as an incorruptible ﬁgure rising above
the bane of parties. And like Washington, his political enemies insisted on tagging
him as a Federalist. In this rancorous atmosphere, he was denied the political
honeymoon usually reserved for new presidents and felt stranded between two extremes. “All the Federalists seem to be afraid to approve anybody but Washington,”
he complained to Abigail. “The Jacobin papers damn with faint praise and undermine with misrepresentation and insinuation.”23
There was no moratorium on criticism of the outgoing president; the Aurora
unleashed a frontal attack on Washington, condemning him for having “cankered
the principles of republicanism in an enlightened people.”24 In desperation, Benjamin Franklin Bache dredged up the earliest controversy that had shadowed Washington’s life: the 1754 Jumonville incident in which, Bache charged, Washington had

Exiting the Stage r! 7 6 9

“ﬁred on a ﬂag of truce; killed the ofﬁcer in the act of reading a summons under
the sanction of such a ﬂag”; then “signed a capitulation in which the killing of that
ofﬁcer and his men was acknowledged as an act of assassination.”25 Responding to
this abuse, the Gazette of the United States decried the “hellish pleasure” that Bache
took in defaming Washington.26 “That a man who was born in America and is part
of the great family of the United States should thus basely aim his poisoned dagger
at the father of his country,” scolded the Gazette, “is sorely to be lamented.”27
Though Washington preferred having Adams rather than Jefferson as his successor, their relationship had never been close and was further marred by haggling
over the presidential furnishings. John and Abigail Adams claimed to be appalled
by the slovenly state of the executive mansion, and Abigail in particular derided
the house as a pigsty, having “been the scene of the most scandalous drinking and
disorder among the servants that I ever heard of.”28 Washington magnanimously
offered the furnishings of two large drawing rooms at reduced prices and didn’t
“cull the best and offer him the rest.”29 The Adamses, however, would not touch the
stuff, and in a ﬁt of petty sniping, Adams groused that Washington had even tried
to palm off two old horses on him for $2,000.
Rebuffed, Washington gave away many household items of historic value. He
sold his private writing desk at cost to his dear friend Elizabeth Powel and, as a
lagniappe, threw in a free pair of mirrors and lamps. A week later she sent him a
teasing letter, claiming that she was shocked to unearth incriminating love letters
stuffed in a drawer of the desk: “Suppose I should prove incontestably that you have
without design put into my possession the love letters of a lady addressed to you
under the most solemn sanction.”30 After more banter, she admitted that the letters
in question were “a large bundle of letters from Mrs. Washington, bound up and
labeled with your usual accuracy.”31 Washington’s reply was exceptionally revealing about his marriage. After thanking Powel for handling the matter delicately,
he said that he knew that no such illicit love letters existed and that even had the
letters in question fallen into “more inquisitive hands, the correspondence would, I
am persuaded, have been found to be more fraught with expressions of friendship
than of enamored love.” Anyone looking for “passion . . . of the Romantic order,” he
contended, would have chosen to commit them to the ﬂames.32 The letter conﬁrms
that by this point Washington’s relationship with Martha had settled into one of
deep friendship, devoid of carnal desire or lusty romance.
On March 9 the former president gathered up his wife, who was nagged by
a bad cold and a cough, the family dog, his granddaughter Nelly and her parrot,
and George Washington Lafayette and his tutor and commenced the six-day journey to Mount Vernon. “On one side, I am called upon to remember the parrot,
on the other to remember the dog,” he related whimsically to Tobias Lear. “For

770

r! The Pr esident

my own part, I should not pine much if both were forgot.”33 Although the wagons
were encumbered with heaps of bags, they represented only a tiny fraction of the
mementos accumulated over many years, and it would take ninety-seven boxes,
fourteen trunks, and forty-three casks to ship home the remaining belongings and
souvenirs.
In those days of poor transportation, farewells left an especially melancholy
aftertaste, since many friendships were ended irrevocably by sheer distance. “How
many friends I have left behind,” Martha Washington wrote wistfully to Lucy Knox.
“They ﬁll my memory with sweet thoughts. Shall I ever see them again? Not likely,
unless they shall come to me here, for the twilight is gathering around our lives.”34
En route to Mount Vernon, Washington tried, as usual, to curtail the time devoted
to townsfolk who wanted to smother him with adulation. Although enormous
crowds received him in Baltimore, he contrived to skip festivities planned in Alexandria, expressing satisfaction that he “avoided in every instance, where [he] had
any previous knowledge of the intention . . . all parades or escorts.”35 The one detour he surely savored was the ride by, to the thunderous welcome of a sixteen-gun
salute, the new President’s House under construction in Washington, D.C.
The presidential legacy he left behind in Philadelphia was a towering one. As
Gordon Wood has observed, “The presidency is the powerful ofﬁce it is in large
part because of Washington’s initial behavior.”36 Washington had forged the executive branch of the federal government, appointed outstanding department heads,
and set a benchmark for fairness, efﬁciency, and integrity that future administrations would aspire to match. “A new government, constructed on free principles, is
always weak and must stand in need of the props of a ﬁrm and good administration
till time shall have rendered its authority venerable and fortiﬁed it by habits of obedience,” Hamilton wrote.37 Washington had endowed the country with exactly such
a ﬁrm and good administration, guaranteeing the survival of the Constitution. He
had taken the new national charter and converted it into a viable, elastic document.
In a wide variety of areas, from inaugural addresses to presidential protocol to executive privilege, he had set a host of precedents that endured because of the high
quality and honesty of his decisions.
Washington’s catalog of accomplishments was simply breathtaking. He had
restored American credit and assumed state debt; created a bank, a mint, a coast
guard, a customs service, and a diplomatic corps; introduced the ﬁrst accounting,
tax, and budgetary procedures; maintained peace at home and abroad; inaugurated a navy, bolstered the army, and shored up coastal defenses and infrastructure;
proved that the country could regulate commerce and negotiate binding treaties;
protected frontier settlers, subdued Indian uprisings, and established law and order
amid rebellion, scrupulously adhering all the while to the letter of the Constitution.

Exiting the Stage r! 7 7 1

During his successful presidency, exports had soared, shipping had boomed, and
state taxes had declined dramatically. Washington had also opened the Mississippi
to commerce, negotiated treaties with the Barbary states, and forced the British to
evacuate their northwestern forts. Most of all he had shown a disbelieving world
that republican government could prosper without being spineless or disorderly or
reverting to authoritarian rule. In surrendering the presidency after two terms and
overseeing a smooth transition of power, Washington had demonstrated that the
president was merely the servant of the people.
Whatever their mandarin style and elitist tendencies, the Federalists had an
abiding faith in executive power and crafted the federal government with a clarity and conviction that would have been problematic for the Republicans, who
preferred small government and legislative predominance. Washington had established the presidency instead of Congress as the driving force behind domestic and
foreign policy and established sharp boundaries between those two branches of
government. He was the perfect ﬁgure to reconcile Americans to a vigorous executive and to conquer deeply rooted fears that a president would behave in the tyrannical manner of a monarch. He also provided a conservative counterweight to some
of the more unruly impulses of the American Revolution, ensuring incremental
progress and averting the bloody excesses associated with the French Revolution.
Washington never achieved the national unity he desired and, by the end, presided over a deeply riven country. John Adams made a telling point when he later
noted that Washington, an apostle of unity, “had unanimous votes as president,
but the two houses of Congress and the great body of the people were more equally
divided under him than they ever have been since.”38 This may have been unavoidable as the new government implemented the new Constitution, which provoked
deep splits over its meaning and the country’s future direction. But whatever his
chagrin about the partisan strife, Washington never sought to suppress debate or
clamp down on his shrill opponents in the press who had hounded him mercilessly. To his everlasting credit, he showed that the American political system
could manage tensions without abridging civil liberties. His most ﬂagrant failings
remained those of the country as a whole—the inability to deal forthrightly with
the injustice of slavery or to ﬁgure out an equitable solution in the ongoing clashes
with Native Americans.
By the time Washington left ofﬁce, the Union had expanded to include three
new states—Vermont, Kentucky, and Tennessee—creating powerful new constituencies with outspoken needs. In this nascent democratic culture, the political tone
was becoming brash and rude, sounding the death knell for the more sedate style
of politics practiced by the formal Washington. Although he had securely laid the
foundations of the federal government, he was still the product of his genteel Vir-

7 72

r! The Pr esident

ginia past and accustomed to the rule of well-bred gentlemen such as himself. He
would never have been fully at home with the brawling, roaring brand of democracy that came to dominate American politics in the era of Andrew Jackson. Nonetheless he had proved the ideal ﬁgure to lead the new nation from its colonial past
into a more democratic future.

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
pa r t si x

The Legend

Apotheosis of Washington, by David Edwin,
after Rembrandt Peale, engraved circa 1800.

ch ap ter si x t y-four

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Samson and Solomon

For at l e a s t a short i n t e rva l , the return to Mount Vernon was a heavenly sensation for the wandering Washington family, who experienced again some
modicum of normality after their long exile in the nation’s capital. “Since I left
Philadelphia, everything has appeared to be a dream,” Nelly Custis told a friend.
“I can hardly realize my being here and that grandpapa is no longer in ofﬁce.”1
As far as Nelly was concerned, the ex-president had been restored to his natural
habitat: “Grandpapa is very well and has already turned farmer again.”2 Martha
basked in newfound domestic joy. “I cannot tell you, my dear friend,” she wrote to
Lucy Knox, “how much I enjoy home after having been deprived of one so long, for
our dwelling in New York and Philadelphia was not home, only a sojourning. The
General and I feel like children just released from school.”3 Washington invoked his
preferred pastoral image of domestic bliss: “I am once more seated under my own
vine and ﬁg tree and hope to spend the remainder of my days—which, in the ordinary course of things . . . cannot be many—in peaceful retirement.”4 Relieved to
be at home, he spurned a wedding invitation from his nephew Lawrence Augustine
Washington, explaining that “I think it not likely that either of us will ever be more
than 25 miles from Mount Vernon again.”5
If George Washington expected a belated season of repose, he was bound to be
disappointed. Soon after he got home, he had to deal with the death of his sister,
Betty Lewis, which ﬁlled him with “inexpressible concern.”6 Her death left George
and his younger brother Charles as the last survivors of their generation of the
Washington clan. Washington generously invited Betty’s son Lawrence to live at
Mount Vernon, but he also had an ulterior agenda, thinking his nephew might lift

776

r! The Legend

a social burden from his shoulders. “As both your aunt and I are in the decline of
life and regular in our habits, especially in our hours of rising and going to bed,”
Washington told him, “I require some person . . . to ease me of the trouble of entertaining company, particularly of nights, as it is my inclination to retire . . . either to
bed or to my study soon after candlelight.”7 When Lewis delayed joining his uncle,
having to deal ﬁrst with a runaway slave, Washington commiserated: “I wish from
my soul that the legislature of this state could see the policy of a gradual abolition
of slavery. It would prev[en]t much future mischief.”8
As had happened in December 1783, Washington again encountered a decaying Mount Vernon that had never regained its antebellum efﬁciency. The buildings
looked dilapidated, the furnishings shabby, the soil depleted. With his plantation,
Washington seemed to suffer the curse of Sisyphus—he was forever away, forever
falling behind, forever forced to rely on undependable help. “We are like the beginners of a new establishment, having everything in a manner to do,” Washington told
Elizabeth Powel after surveying the place. “Houses and everything to repair. Rooms
to paint, paper, whitewash, etc. etc.”9 A constant parade of carpenters, masons,
and painters trooped through the house, kicking up clouds of dust everywhere. So
enormous were the repairs that Washington estimated they would cost almost “as
much as if I had commenced an entire new establishment.”10
Once again, with Roman fortitude, Washington endured an invasion of unwanted visitors. Far from being a rustic retreat, Mount Vernon became a way station for travelers eager to glimpse the retired national leader. On July 31, 1797, when
he invited Tobias Lear to dinner, Washington made this startling comment: “Unless
someone pops in unexpectedly, Mrs. Washington and myself will do what I believe
has not been done within the last twenty years by us—that is, to set down to dinner by ourselves.”11 Although visitors said they had made the pilgrimage as a mark
of respect, the ex-president expressed skepticism about their true motives: “Pray,
would not the word curiosity answer as well? And how different this, from having a
few social friends at a cheerful board?”12
Many visitors viewed Washington through the golden haze of fame, with no
real awareness of his underlying strain, and gushed about his stately serenity. When
Amariah Frost of Massachusetts stopped by, he was struck by the exemplary courtesies extended to visitors. After slaves brought rum to him and his companions,
they sat down with the Washingtons for a succulent meal consisting of “a small
roasted pig, boiled leg of lamb, beef, peas, lettuce, cucumbers, artichokes . . . puddings, tarts, etc.”13 Although Washington led discussions on current affairs, Martha
was now also a repository of anecdotes about the historic events of the past quarter
century. “The extensive knowledge she has gained in this general intercourse with
persons from all parts of the world has made her a most interesting companion,

Samson and Solomon r! 7 7 7

and having a vastly retentive memory, she presents an entire history of half a century,” said a female visitor.14
Fond of routine, Washington returned to his old daily schedule of rising at dawn,
eating breakfast, then touring his ﬁve farms on horseback in a wide-brimmed hat
with a hickory switch in hand. If slaves and overseers weren’t hard at work when he
arrived, Washington said only half humorously, he sent them “messages expressive
of my sorrow for their indisposition.”15 The considerable demands of refurbishing
Mount Vernon caused him to fall behind on correspondence and made sustained
reading difﬁcult. As he told Secretary of War McHenry, “I have not looked into a
book since I came home, nor shall I be able to do it until I have discharged my workmen; probably not before the nights grow longer, when possibly I may be looking
in [the] doomsday book.”16 For all that, Washington remained well informed and
enjoyed reading newspapers aloud to company. Since he still complained about
their bias, he asked Treasury Secretary Wolcott to send him the unvarnished truth
about various issues.
One of Washington’s cherished activities was arranging the huge trove of papers
he had lugged back from Philadelphia. Before leaving ofﬁce, he had instructed his
secretaries to skim off documents needed by President Adams and ship the rest to
Mount Vernon. He also had them forward a letterpress device so he could make copies of letters. One visitor was staggered by the sheer size of his Revolutionary War archives: “They consist of between 30 and 40 cases of papers, containing all the military
expeditions, reports, journals, correspondence with Congress, with the generals, etc.
What a wealth of material!”17 As if envisaging the ﬁrst presidential library, Washington planned to build a house at Mount Vernon dedicated to his records, a project that
never came to fruition even though he ordered bookcases for it before his death.
Another labor of love was adding the ﬁnishing touches to the renovation of the
main house. At the north end Washington completed the New Room, the stately
dining room featuring a long table that seated ten people. From Philadelphia he
carted home twenty-four mahogany dining chairs, enabling him to expand the
number of people he entertained. Unfortunately, delays in completing the room
had so weakened the underlying girders that “a company only moderately large
would have sunk altogether into the cellar,” Washington complained before undertaking expensive corrective work.18 Outside the house, the kitchen garden,
greenhouse, and serpentine walks along the lawn created a beautiful geometric
area where elegant, well-dressed people could stroll through fragrant, refreshing
spaces. After negotiating the bad roads and thick woods nearby, visitors found the
mansion house a sudden oasis of order. “Good fences, clear grounds, and extensive
cultivation strike the eye as something uncommon in this part of the world,” noted
architect Benjamin Latrobe.19

778

r! The Legend

Spared the onus of public ofﬁce, Washington permitted his mind to roam into
the pathways of the past. In the spring of 1798, when he learned that Belvoir, the old
Fairfax estate, was up for sale, he was ﬂooded with memories about his youthful
dalliance with Sally Fairfax. On some subterranean level, the entrancing memory
of Sally, now a widow of nearly seventy, had stayed evergreen in his mind. In May
1798 he learned that Bryan Fairfax, Sally’s brother-in-law, was traveling to England,
and he handed him an elegiac letter to Sally, which mixed frank references to their
amorous past with staple Washingtonian rhetoric about America’s glorious future.
Very often, he admitted to Sally, he cast a nostalgic glance toward Belvoir and wondered whether she would spend her ﬁnal days near her Virginia relatives “rather
than close the sublunary scene in a foreign country.”20 He acknowledged the many
extraordinary events he had lived through, then abruptly declared that none of
these events, “not all of them together, have been able to eradicate from my mind
the recollection of those happy moments—the happiest of my life—which I have
enjoyed in your company.”21 This unexpected line offered the ultimate romantic
compliment: Washington had won a long war, founded a country, and created a
new government, but such accomplishments paled beside the faded recollections of
a youthful love affair. In its autumnal tone, the letter represented a farewell address
of sorts. Having written it, he wanted to ensure that Sally did not misinterpret it
as an invitation to revive their relationship. So the next day, using the same selfprotective device he had employed with Elizabeth Powel, he drafted a letter to Sally
under Martha’s signature in which the latter said it was among her great regrets that
she no longer had Sally as her “neighbor and companion.”22
Washington’s life was more weighted with care than he admitted to Sally. For all
the beauty and scenic vistas of his estate, the ﬁnancial pressure remained unrelenting. His elaborate plan for renting four of the Mount Vernon farms had faltered
because he wanted to rent them all at once, which was impossible. In the spring
of 1797 he compromised and offered them for rent individually. In hiring his new
estate manager, James Anderson, Washington had hoped that this “honest, industrious, and judicious Scotchman” would alleviate his chronic ﬁnancial woes, but
Anderson struggled in vain to make Mount Vernon more productive.23 He turned
out to be too impulsive and improvident for Washington’s fastidious taste, though
he did introduce signal innovations. The enterprising Anderson devised the concept of taking grain grown at Mount Vernon and converting it into corn and rye
whiskey at a commercial distillery on the estate. For Washington, always rabid on
the subject of alcoholism, it was an ironic turn of events, to put it mildly. Although
the distillery started modestly, by 1799 it had ﬁve gleaming copper stills and produced eleven thousand gallons yearly, so that it may have ranked as the largest whiskey producer in America. Nevertheless, when Anderson talked of quitting in 1798,

Samson and Solomon r! 7 7 9

Washington chided him for having coaxed him into assuming “a very serious expense in erecting a distillery of which I had no knowledge . . . But do as you please
in this matter. I never did, nor ever shall, wish to retain any person in my employ
contrary to their inclination.”24
Washington again found himself sliding into a slow-motion ﬁnancial crisis. Just
as he had been forced to borrow to attend his own inauguration in 1789, he had had
to sell “two valuable tracts of land” in western Pennsylvania and land in Virginia’s
Great Dismal Swamp to make the journey home in 1797 and “lay in a few necessaries
for my family.”25 In his presidency’s waning days, he had been reduced to the indignity of personally dunning tenants in arrears on rent, threatening one with a lawsuit.
Degraded to a bill collector, he had warned, “I w[oul]d fain avoid this appeal, but
if I am obliged to resort to it, remember that it is brought upon you by your own
default.”26 Upon returning to Mount Vernon, he scratched out testy notes to people,
trying to settle their land disputes. When nephew Samuel Washington approached
him for an emergency $1,000 loan, Washington grudgingly agreed, while lecturing
him on the perils of borrowing and warning that “you are under the same mistake
that many others are in supposing that I have money always at command.”27 To improve his ﬁnancial situation, Washington started an economy campaign and froze
the wages of overseers. He also began a gradual shift from agriculture to grazing,
which curbed expenses and averted the need for more slave labor.

A f t e r l e av i ng of f ic e , Washington made a futile attempt to distance himself
from politics. Because the post ofﬁce lay nine miles away, he collected his mail only
thrice weekly, so the bags when they arrived bulged with political letters, gazettes,
and pamphlets. Inevitably, the irascible President Adams suffered from comparison
with the tactful Washington. “There never was perhaps a greater contrast between
two characters than between those of the present president and his predecessor,”
James Madison observed. “The one cool, considerate, and cautious, the other headlong and kindled into ﬂame by every spark that lights on his passions.”28 For all his
vast legislative experience, the temperamental Adams was a complete tyro as an
executive. Much as Jefferson predicted, Adams immediately had to contend with
multiple crises as France seized nearly three hundred neutral American vessels and
the popular mood turned bellicose. It did not help matters that Vice President Jefferson, far from aiding the president, functioned as a staunch opponent.
With the country irrevocably divided into two hostile camps, Washington expected to have no further dealings with Jefferson, whose followers had so viliﬁed
him. Then an incident occurred that ensured that there would be no rapprochement between the two Virginians. Jefferson had befriended a Florentine named

780

r! The Legend

Philip Mazzei, who sold wine in London before moving to Virginia, where he hoped
to introduce vineyards. After Mazzei returned to Europe, he exchanged letters with
Jefferson, who tended to express himself much more colorfully on paper than in
person. In April 1796 Jefferson sent Mazzei a scathing letter about the Washington
administration: “The aspect of our politics has wonderfully changed since you left
us. In place of that noble love of liberty and republican government which carried
us triumphantly thro[ugh] the war,” a monarchical party had “sprung up whose
avowed object is to draw over us the substance, as they have already done the forms,
of the British government . . . It would give you a fever were I to name to you the
apostates who have gone over to these heresies, men who were Samsons in the ﬁeld
and Solomons in the council, but who have had their head shaved by the harlot
England.”29 Though Washington was not mentioned by name, he surely qualiﬁed
as the Samson, if not the Solomon, in question.
In a notorious lapse of judgment, Mazzei printed this private letter in a Florentine newspaper. It was then translated and published in a French and then an
English journal, ﬁnally cropping up in Noah Webster’s Minerva in New York in May
1797. Pretty soon the letter appeared everywhere, and Thomas Jefferson was startled
when he read it on May 9. Usually unﬂappable, he was completely nonplussed.
“Think for me on this occasion,” he pleaded with Madison, “and advise me what to
do.”30 In private, Jefferson insisted that the translation had misrepresented his original communication and that the Samsons and Solomons referred to were the Society of the Cincinnati. As someone who liked to duck uncomfortable public clashes,
Jefferson beat a hasty retreat into diplomatic silence. He told Madison that he could
offer no public explanations of the letter because it would create “a personal difference between Gen[era]l Washington and myself ” and entangle him “with all those
with whom his character is still popular, that is to say, nine-tenths of the people of
the U.S.”31 The letter gave the world a peek into a very different Thomas Jefferson:
not the political savant but the crafty, partisan operative marked by unrelenting
zeal. While Washington refused to dignify the episode with a response, it is widely
believed that the Mazzei letter ended all further communication between him and
Jefferson. “I never saw him afterwards or these malignant insinuations should have
been dissipated before his just judgment, as mist before the sun,” Jefferson later
said.32 Whatever the case, both Jefferson and Madison had disappeared from Washington’s life with stunning ﬁnality. When Washington alluded to Jefferson in a letter
the following year, he referred to him with patent disdain as “that man.”33
Hamilton took an even greater pounding in the Republican press. Back in 1792
James Monroe and other Republican legislators had gotten wind of a possible scandal involving Hamilton, who had made secret payments to a man named James
Reynolds. Monroe and two other legislators had then confronted the treasury sec-

Samson and Solomon r! 7 81

retary and demanded to know whether he had colluded with Reynolds to proﬁt
from surreptitious trading in government securities. While admitting to the payments, Hamilton explained that they represented hush money to cover up an affair
with Reynolds’s beautiful young wife, Maria. There the matter temporarily ended.
Then in June 1797 James T. Callender, a scandal-mongering journalist in the Republican camp, published a pamphlet that accurately described the payments but
mistakenly charged Hamilton with insider trading. To vindicate his integrity as a
public ofﬁcial, Hamilton confessed to the adulterous affair in a ninety-ﬁve-page
pamphlet; even his closest friends thought a delicately worded paragraph or two
might have done the trick nicely.
Opinion differed among Federalists as to whether Hamilton’s political career
would survive these damaging revelations. “Hamilton is fallen for the present,”
David Cobb, a former aide to Washington, conceded to Henry Knox, “but if he
fornicates with every female in the cities of New York and Philadelphia, he will
rise again.”34 Many other Federalists and a gleeful majority of Republicans thought
Hamilton’s self-inﬂicted wound would prove mortal. Although Washington could
easily have avoided the incident with polite silence, Hamilton had stood loyally
by him through many crises, and he must have felt that the time had come to
reciprocate.
Washington forwarded to Hamilton one of the silver-plated wine coolers that
Gouverneur Morris had sent to him from Europe early in his presidency. The accompanying note was potent in its simplicity. “My dear Sir,” it began. “Not for any
intrinsic value the thing possesses, but as a token of my sincere regard and friendship for you and as a remembrancer of me, I pray you to accept a wine cooler for
four bottles . . . I pray you to present my best wishes, in which Mrs. Washington
joins me, to Mrs. Hamilton and the family, and that you would be persuaded that
with every sentiment of the highest regard, I remain your sincere friend and affectionate h[onora]ble servant Go: Washington.”35 This succinct note is a marvelous example of Washington’s social ﬁnesse. He expressed solidarity with Hamilton
without ever mentioning the scandal or referring to Hamilton’s misbehavior. Although Hamilton’s career survived, albeit in a diminished state, he began a long,
tragic descent. He had achieved his most stellar feats under Washington’s benign
auspices and seemed to lose his moral compass when he no longer operated under
his direct guidance. For all his brilliance, Hamilton’s judgment was as erratic as
Washington’s seemed unerring.
In terms of politics, Washington’s life would have anything but a placid ﬁnal
stage. In a rather grisly joke, Philip Freneau kept sending him issues of his new publication, the Time Piece, until Washington, annoyed, asked to have it discontinued.
In the privacy of Mount Vernon, he no longer felt muzzled in expressing scorching

7 82

r! The Legend

political opinions. He was appalled by the French Directory’s treatment of three
American commissioners sent to negotiate peace and by French depredations
against American shipping. Fiercely opinionated, even strident, Washington was
now avowedly partisan in private, fulminating against the Republicans as pawns
of the French in their attempt to manipulate American politics. As he told Thomas
Pinckney, time would show the difference between those “who are true Americans”
and “those who are stimulating a foreign nation to unfriendly acts, repugnant to
our rights and dignity.”36
For Washington, the one bright spot in an otherwise dark political picture was
the release from prison that September of Lafayette, with the expectation that he
would proceed to Holland or even America. At once Lafayette lavished Washington
with high-ﬂown prose reminiscent of old times: “With what eagerness and pleasure
I would hasten to ﬂy to Mount Vernon, there to pour out all the sentiments of affection, respect and gratitude . . . to you.”37 Now plump and hearty, his ebullient self
restored, Lafayette had a touching vision of landing in Chesapeake Bay, rushing to
see Washington at Mount Vernon, and buying a farm nearby.
With tensions running high over French policy, Washington had to send his
protégé deﬂating news that he would not be well received in America. To counter French moves, Congress had already authorized a military expansion and the
construction of more frigates. Lafayette, as a Frenchman, would be snubbed by
Federalists and/or embraced by Republicans, and either way the situation would
prove untenable. However ardently Lafayette defended the French Directory as
having peaceful intentions toward the United States, Washington was having none
of it, replying heatedly that the United States would not “suffer any nation under
the sun . . . to trample upon their rights with impunity.”38 With his wife still ailing,
Lafayette deferred his trip to America, spending the winter in Denmark. He was a
man marooned by history, a tragic ﬁgure freed from prison only to emerge into a
world in which he could ﬁnd no ﬁtting place. No longer accepted in his own country, he could not ﬂee to America either and had to content himself with rehashing
anecdotes about the American Revolution.
Even without the persistent tensions with France, Washington’s mood would
have been morose. His crops had been damaged by drenching autumn rains; then a
winter of unusual severity froze nearby creeks and left the Potomac congested with
ice ﬂoes. If business was bad, politics was even worse. In Paris Talleyrand waited ﬁve
months to meet with the three American commissioners and, when he did, complained about anti-French innuendos that, he claimed, had pervaded Washington’s
farewell address. For a long time the American public was kept ignorant about the
fate of this diplomatic mission. “Are our commissioners guillotined,” Washington
wondered aloud to James McHenry, “or what else is the occasion of their silence?”39

Samson and Solomon r! 7 83

In early March 1798 one of the commissioners, John Marshall, alerted Washington to the scandalous news that the French had tried to extort money from the
American diplomats, in what would be billed as the XYZ Affair, named for the three
nameless agents employed by Talleyrand to extract the payments.
When President Adams ﬁnally released dispatches from the envoys to France,
the American public was outraged and none more so than Washington, who felt
grimly vindicated. “What a scene of corruption and proﬂigacy has these communications disclosed in the Directors of a people with whom the United States have
endeavored to treat upon fair, just, and honorable ground!” he told one senator.40
Federalists proﬁted from the disastrous turn in Republicans’ fortunes produced by
the XYZ Affair. France claimed the right to seize and conﬁscate British cargo aboard
American ships; Adams promptly pushed through measures to protect American
shipping and strengthen coastal defenses. In late April he signed legislation creating
the Navy Department and a month later approved a new army of more than ten
thousand men, styled a provisional army to quiet fears of a standing army, which
would be activated in the event of a French invasion. In July Congress authorized
an additional force of twelve regiments to be organized at once. As the United States
abrogated its former treaties with France, American naval vessels were permitted to
open ﬁre on any French ships threatening American merchant vessels. The QuasiWar—or what President Adams called “the half war with France”—was now ofﬁcially under way.41
War fever gripped the country and, judging by Nelly Custis’s letters, infected
Mount Vernon itself. Insisting that Americans must “extirpate the demons”—the
French—Nelly gave her friend some humorous advice on preparations: “You must
procure a black dress, the fashion of it we will settle hereafter. We shall have black
helmets of morocco leather, ornamented with black bugles, and an immense plume
of black feathers.”42 Martha Washington also reacted in shrill tones to events in
Paris, decrying the arrogance and deception of the French Directory.
Whether to his dread or secret relief, Washington felt a powerful tide tugging
him back into politics. On May 19 Hamilton sent him a provocative letter saying
that the Jeffersonians were conspiring with the French to subvert the Constitution and convert America into “a province of France.”43 Hamilton recommended
that Washington tour the southern states, “under some pretense of health,” to make
speeches combating virulent pro-French feeling in the region.44 “You ought also to
be aware, my dear sir,” Hamilton continued, pulling him into the political vortex,
“that in the event of an open rupture with France, the public voice will again call
you to command the armies of your country.”45 Cooling off Hamilton’s overheated
rhetoric, Washington replied that he could not make a tour for health reasons because his health had never been ﬁner. He also foresaw no immediate threat of war

7 84

r! The Legend

or “formidable invasion” of America by France.46 Still, if war came, Washington
thought the public would prefer “a man more in his prime.”47 Then just as it looked
as if Washington, aged sixty-six, might slam the door shut on his political career
forever, he nudged it open a crack. In the event of war, he declared, “I should like,
previously, to know who would be my coadjutors and whether you would be disposed to take an active part, if arms are to be resorted to.”48
This statement—that Washington would sally forth only if accompanied by
Hamilton—was to be pregnant with the most extraordinary consequences. For all
his sentimental talk about vegetating under his vine and ﬁg tree, Washington was
still passionate about politics and incensed by French behavior. As he had told Lafayette with fervor, after having fought the British for American freedom, he could
not “remain an unconcerned spectator” as France tried to obliterate that freedom.49
As soon as Washington responded to his gambit, Hamilton quickly upped the stakes,
telling Washington that if he served under him, he would expect to be “Inspector
General with a command in the line.”50 Because Washington did not expect to take
the ﬁeld, the inspector general would function as acting commander, charged with
safeguarding both Washington’s reputation and national security. In short order,
a deal had been struck that Alexander Hamilton would be second in command to
Washington—an understanding that was to have fateful consequences for President Adams.
On June 13 Washington sat under the portico of Mount Vernon with Polish
nobleman Julian Niemcewicz and talked politics. As they savored breezes coming
off the Potomac, Washington upbraided the French government with such “passionate wrath” that Niemcewicz was taken aback.51 The ex-president, protesting the
plunder of American shipping and the unforgivable insults to American envoys,
sounded warlike. “Submission is vile,” Washington thundered, saying that rather
than see “freedom and independence trodden under foot,” he would “pour out the
last drop of blood which is yet in my veins.”52 He expressed sympathy for Adams’s
truculent stance: “I, in his place, perhaps would be less vehement in expression, but
I would prepare myself steadily and boldly in the same fashion.”53
Washington mentioned that he and Adams had exchanged no letters since he
had left ofﬁce. Four days later he addressed a letter to the second president, inviting
him to stay at Mount Vernon should he visit the federal district that summer. In a
friendly tone, Washington lauded Adams’s speeches, making one wonder whether
he did not already have command of the new army in mind. Setting the stage for
later problems, Adams replied with a frank admission of his inadequacy in military
matters and said he was vacillating on whether to call out the “old generals or to appoint a young set” in forming an army.54 “I must tap you sometimes for advice,” Adams concluded. “We must have your name, if you . . . will permit us to use it. There

Samson and Solomon r! 7 85

will be more efﬁcacy in it than in many an army.”55 This was tantamount to an offer
to command the new army, but Adams showed little awareness of its impact upon
someone as strong-willed as George Washington. Sure in his command of nuance,
Washington informed Adams that he would gladly serve in case of “actual invasion
by a formidable force.”56 Foreshadowing his preference for Hamilton as his chief
deputy, Washington also urged Adams to appoint seasoned ofﬁcers from the late
war “without respect to grade.”57
In early July President Adams ofﬁcially named Washington head of the new
army, with the rank of lieutenant general and commander in chief. Before making
this decision, Adams did not bother to consult Washington, who was thunderstruck
to learn from the newspapers of his appointment and unanimous Senate conﬁrmation. For three days, starting on July 11, Washington conferred at Mount Vernon
with Secretary of War McHenry, who brought his commission. Adams had decided
to retain McHenry, Pickering, and Wolcott from Washington’s second-term cabinet
and would come to question the loyalty of these men who revered Washington and
Hamilton and were often bafﬂed by Adams’s quirkily unpredictable behavior.
Adams had asked McHenry to sound out Washington on his preferred ofﬁcers
without realizing that Washington would regard his advice as binding. The expresident voiced all the familiar fears that had accompanied his return to politics
in 1787 and 1789—that people would whisper scornfully that he was breaking his
public pledges to retire, that he was power-hungry, and so on. Washington himself
marveled at his own willingness to return to service, telling John Trumbull that “this
is an age of wonders, and I have once more consented to become an actor in the great
drama.”58 Before long, applications for army appointments tumbled in upon him.
In taking the position, Washington reiterated his view that it would be unwise
for him “to come forward before the emergency becomes evident.”59 For this reason,
he thought it all-important to select his own general ofﬁcers, who would shape
up the army before he assumed direct command. He also decided to repeat his
wartime precedent of waiving a salary and being reimbursed only for any expenses
incurred.
Both McHenry and Secretary of State Pickering favored Hamilton as second
in command. Unfortunately, as Pickering warned Washington in conﬁdence, this
choice was anathema to the president: “From the conversation that I and others have
had with the president, there appears to us to be a disinclination to place Colo. Hamilton in what we think is his proper station, and that alone in which we suppose he
will serve—the second to you—and the chief in your absence.”60 Here lay the dilemma
in a nutshell: neither Hamilton nor Washington would serve without Hamilton being the main deputy, while Adams found this intolerable. It would prove excruciatingly difﬁcult to break this impasse between the former and current presidents.

7 86

r! The Legend

When McHenry returned to Philadelphia, he bore a slip of paper on which
Washington had scrawled the names of the three men he wanted as his major generals: Hamilton, Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, and Henry Knox. He wanted them
ranked in that order, even though Pinckney and Knox had outranked Hamilton
in the war. In Washington’s view, the old hierarchy of the Continental Army had
vanished with its demise. In the meantime, while Pickering sang Hamilton’s virtues
to Adams, the president had others in mind for the number-two spot. When Adams rattled off his three favorite generals, Pickering pointedly caviled at each one:
Daniel Morgan, for having “one foot in the grave”; Horatio Gates, for being “an old
woman”; and Benjamin Lincoln, for being “always asleep.”61 Despite his avowed
ignorance of military matters, John Adams stoutly maintained that these men were
superior to his longtime nemesis, Hamilton. “Hamilton had great disadvantages,”
Adams later mused. “His origin was infamous; his place of birth and education
were foreign countries; his fortune was poverty itself; the proﬂigacy of his life—his
fornications, adulteries, and his incests—were propagated far and wide.”62
Washington made clear to Adams that his acceptance of the post had been premised on the condition that “I shall not be called into the ﬁeld until the army is in
a situation to require my presence.”63 Adams seemed ﬂummoxed by the matter of
Washington’s deputy. On July 18 he sent to the Senate the three names Washington
had submitted, hoping their order of priority would be reversed. “General Knox is
legally entitled to rank next to General Washington,” Adams told McHenry, “and no
other arrangement will give satisfaction.”64 To worsen matters, Adams also insisted
that Charles Cotesworth Pinckney “must rank before Hamilton,” throwing everything into utter confusion.65
It may have been the stress of this situation that sent Washington into a medical
tailspin. On August 18 he came down with an ague—chills and sweats—and succumbed a couple of days later to a fever so intense that he shed twenty pounds in
short order. He was so weakened by illness that even writing letters proved a wearisome task. In late August McHenry warned Washington that Adams was hardening
his stand about the ranking of the three generals.
Aside from Adams’s opposition to Hamilton, the touchiest matter for Washington was the likely wounded feelings of Henry Knox (a major general), who had far
outranked both Hamilton (a colonel) and Pinckney (a brigadier general) during
the war. Since Washington felt national security was at stake, he was not about to
allow past friendships to overrule his military judgment. However close they had
been during the war, Knox had gravely disappointed Washington during the Whiskey Rebellion. With all the diplomacy at his command, Washington wrote to Knox
and explained that Pinckney had to precede him because the latter was a southerner
and any war with France would likely unfold in the South. Washington also thought

Samson and Solomon r! 7 87

the French might try to foment a slave uprising to conquer the region. What he
didn’t state openly was that he thought the Jeffersonians might form a ﬁfth column
in the South, aiding France and sowing dissension. Given the grave threat, he told
Knox, “I would fain hope, as we are forming an army anew, which army . . . is to
ﬁght for everything that ought to be dear and sacred to free men, that former rank
will be forgot.”66 Washington may have had sound military reasons for downgrading Knox, but if he thought Knox would accept this with good grace, he was a poor
psychologist. When Knox received Washington’s letter, he was in the throes of yet
another ﬁnancial crisis. His life had also been blighted by family tragedy; the ninth
of his twelve children had recently died—one room of his house was dubbed “the
dead room” because so many dead children had been laid out there—and he must
have been in a highly vulnerable state.67
Knox’s anguished reply made it manifestly clear how devastated he was by
Washington’s letter. He had broken open the letter with delight, he said, only to
absorb its contents with astonishment. He stated that “for more than twenty years,
I must have been acting under a perfect delusion. Conscious myself of entertaining
for you a sincere, active, and invariable friendship, I easily believed it was reciprocal. Nay more, I ﬂattered myself with your esteem and respect in a military point
of view. But I ﬁnd that others greatly my juniors in rank have been . . . preferred
before me.”68 By not consulting him ﬁrst, he implied, Washington had exposed him
to public humiliation.
In self-defense, Washington professed surprise that Knox had reacted so strongly
in the matter and denied any intent “to see you in a degraded point of view.”69 He
contended that the Federalists had chosen Hamilton as his second in command and
presented the selection as a fait accompli—an atypical case of Washington shading
the truth. In an emotional mistake, he pleaded that Hamilton had a large family to
support and needed special inducements to accept the military post—which could
only have bruised Knox after losing so many children. It was a sad denouement to
the warm, fruitful relationship between Washington and Knox. Nevertheless, behind the scenes, Washington scrambled to see if he could give Knox seniority over
Pinckney, “if it would satisfy Knox.”70 All the while Knox remained adamant that
the rules should “decide in favor of [the] former rank” that prevailed at the end of
the Revolution.71
Amid this impasse, John Marshall and Bushrod Washington appeared at Mount
Vernon for a three-day visit. Washington entreated both men to run for Congress
from their Virginia districts, stressing the need to oust Republican incumbents
during a national emergency and lamenting the “violent and outrageous” mood
prevalent in the state.72 In the past Washington had shied away from such blatantly
partisan advice, but he was now almost bullheaded in supporting Federalist can-

788

r! The Legend

didates, honestly believing that the Republicans were only pretending, for election
reasons, to be ready to ﬁght a French invasion.73 He thought it would be necessary
to ban them as ofﬁcers in the new army because they would “divide and contaminate the army by artful and seditious discourses.”74
Bending to his uncle’s inexorable request, Bushrod Washington, a young man
with a small, pale face and large, brooding eyes, consented to run. The handsome,
intelligent Marshall, a man of iron willpower, balked at the idea. At the end of his
stay, he rose early in the morning, hoping to slip away unobtrusively before Washington could renew his pressure. No stranger to early-morning escapes, Washington anticipated Marshall’s ﬂight and blocked his path on the piazza as Marshall
moved toward the stables. In coaxing Marshall to stand for Congress, Washington
pointed out that he himself had agreed “to surrender the sweets of retirement and
again to enter the most arduous and perilous station which an individual could ﬁll,”
Marshall recalled.75 Unable to withstand such an appeal, Marshall agreed to become
a candidate for Congress.
With his wide streak of envy, John Adams found it difﬁcult to be president in
the aftermath of Washington. By late August, he believed that the time had come
to assert his presidential prerogative over his predecessor. He told McHenry that he
would gladly resign the presidency to Washington, if he could, “but I never said I
would hold the ofﬁce and be responsible for its exercise, while he should execute
it.”76 Suspecting intrigue between his cabinet members and Washington, Adams
was determined to resist it. McHenry reported to Washington, “The president is
determined to place Hamilton last and Knox ﬁrst.”77 Pickering added what was already obvious: that Adams had “an extreme aversion to Colo. Hamilton—a personal resentment,” and would never let him supersede Knox and Pinckney.78 It was
a unique moment in American history: a political stalemate between a current and
former president. As if to spite his predecessor, Adams decided, without consulting
Washington, to name his feckless son-in-law, Colonel William Smith, as a brigadier
general. Washington grew enraged at the news. “What in the name of military prudence could have induced the appointment of [William Smith] as brigadier?” he
tartly inquired of Timothy Pickering. “The latter never was celebrated for anything
that ever came to my knowledge except the murder of Indians.”79 The Senate, agreeing with Washington, rejected Smith, but the incident further inﬂamed relations
between Washington and Adams.
In high dudgeon, Washington sent Adams a stinging letter in which he did not
bother to tone down his indignation. Intent upon showing who was still the more
powerful ﬁgure, he reminded Adams that he had picked Washington to command
the army “without any previous consultation of my sentiments.”80 If Adams had
inquired ﬁrst, he would have learned the conditions of his consent. Washington had

Samson and Solomon r! 7 8 9

stated plainly to McHenry that he would accept command only if he controlled his
general staff. He reproached Adams for submitting the three names to the Senate
in the order he suggested only to object to their ranking afterward: “But you have
been pleased to order the last to be ﬁrst, and the ﬁrst to be last.”81 He also noted
caustically that Adams had taken it upon himself to appoint his brigadier generals,
including his own son-in-law.
Perhaps especially vexing to Adams was that Washington issued the most ringing endorsement of Hamilton he had ever uttered. He reviewed Hamilton’s history
as his “principal and most conﬁdential aide” during the war and later as treasury
secretary. “By some he is considered as an ambitious man and therefore a dangerous one,” Washington wrote with genuine feeling. “That he is ambitious, I shall
readily grant, but it is of that laudable kind which prompts a man to excel in whatever he takes in hand. He is enterprising, quick in his perceptions, and his judgment intuitively great: qualities essential to a great military character and therefore
I repeat that his loss will be irreparable.”82 As for Knox, Washington said there was
no man “for whom I have had a greater friendship. But esteem, love, and friendship
can have no inﬂuence in my mind when . . . possibly our all is at stake.”83 Washington ended this brutally candid letter by asking Adams point-blank “whether your
determination to reverse the order of the three major generals is ﬁnal.”84
Washington felt so strongly on the subject that he was prepared to publish his
grievances if Adams didn’t back down. The one ﬂaw in his thinking was that he had
assumed that McHenry had given Adams an honest account of their meeting at
Mount Vernon, with the preconditions he had laid down for service. On the other
hand, it was shockingly naive of Adams to imagine that he could woo George Washington as commander in chief, coax him from retirement, then dictate his general
ofﬁcers.
On October 9 President Adams sent Washington a conciliatory letter from his
home in Quincy, Massachusetts. However furious he was inside, he wrote a nuanced message in which he was careful to afﬁrm the president’s right to determine
ofﬁcer ranks but also promised that he would not override Washington’s judgment.
Placated by this generosity, Washington emphasized to McHenry that he did not
want knowledge of his confrontation with Adams to leak out, lest it injure the president. In replying to Adams, Washington, with consummate tact, made no mention
of the controversy over the major generals and simply inquired after Abigail’s failing health. George Washington was always the maestro of eloquent silences.
Still grieved by his festering feud with Henry Knox, Washington sent him a
lovely personal note, describing the “sincere pleasure” he would derive from having
Knox as one of his major generals. He asked him to “share in the glory of defending
your country” and pleaded with him to “display a mind superior to embarrass-

790

r! The Legend

ing punctilios,” such as disputes over rank.85 Not to be appeased, Knox informed
Washington that all his friends had warned him against accepting any demotion.
It still rankled that Washington tried to minimize the signiﬁcance of the dispute
over rank, which “precludes decisively my having the satisfaction proposed of sharing your fate in the ﬁeld. I will not detain you one moment longer than to say, in
the presence of Almighty God, that there is not a creature upon the face of the
globe who was, is, and will remain more your friend than H. Knox.”86 While Washington had been uncharacteristically clumsy in the whole affair, Knox ended their
exchange on a particularly bleak, bitter note.
Notwithstanding his pledge to stir no more than twenty-ﬁve miles from Mount
Vernon in retirement, Washington spent ﬁve weeks in Philadelphia in November
and December, conferring with Hamilton and Charles Cotesworth Pinckney about
the new army. He traveled to the capital in relative simplicity: four servants and six
or seven horses. Starting with the usual festivities in Alexandria, he again underwent the trial of public adulation and entered Philadelphia to clanging church bells,
streets lined with cavalry, and an ovation from thousands of spectators.
In working sessions on the army, Washington seemed something of a ﬁgurehead.
The vigorous Hamilton exercised the true authority, having beavered away at the
task from a small ofﬁce in lower Manhattan. The generals labored ﬁve hours daily,
and Washington found the job of selecting ofﬁcers for twelve new regiments an
onerous task “of inﬁnite more difﬁculty than I had any conception of.”87 In appraising candidates, Washington’s criteria had changed little from French and Indian
days, and he was still glad to ﬁnd “so many gentlemen of family, fortune, and high
expectations.”88 Once again he stressed the need for handsome ofﬁcer uniforms of
blue and buff and took amazing pains to design his own uniform, including “a blue
coat, with yellow buttons and gold epaulettes” and a white hat plume meant to add
“a further distinction.”89 All the while Washington’s enthusiasm for the new army
quietly began to wane.
While in Philadelphia, Washington delighted in joining Elizabeth Willing Powel
for a number of teas and breakfasts that he conspicuously failed to enter into his
diaries. We know of these encounters only from notes they exchanged. That Washington made efforts to conceal these meetings again raises the question of whether
he was perhaps more attracted to Eliza Powel than he cared to admit. At the very
least, there was a special emotional and intellectual rapport between them. Although Powel was careful to buy gifts for Nelly Custis and Martha Washington,
one wonders whether this was a ploy to mask her true feelings for Washington. On
the eve of his departure, she sent him a letter that suggests the deep bond between
them: “My heart is so sincerely afﬂicted and my ideas so confused that I can only
express my predominant wish—that God may take you into his holy keeping and

Samson and Solomon r! 7 91

preserve you safe both in traveling and under all circumstances and that you may be
happy here and hereafter.”90 Perhaps Eliza Powel simply had a premonition that she
would never again set eyes on her dear friend. As if wishing to lessen expectations
and protect himself from prying eyes, Washington sent a more formal reply: “For
your kind and affectionate wishes, I feel a grateful sensibility and reciprocate them
with all the cordiality you could wish, being my dear madam your most obed[ien]t
and obliged h[onora]ble servant Go: Washington.”91
Surely the most haunting reunion of Washington’s stay in Philadelphia was with
his bluff, genial companion Robert Morris. Once so rich and powerful that a creditor crowned him the “Hannibal” of ﬁnance, Morris had become overextended in
buying millions of acres of land and could not pay taxes or interest on his loans.
In desperation, the ﬁnancial wizard of the American Revolution auctioned off the
plate and furnishings of his opulent home—all in vain. “I can never do things in
the small,” he once said prophetically. “I must be either a man or a mouse.”92 Now
Washington dined with Robert Morris in a milieu far distant from the sumptuous settings of past meetings: debtors’ prison. When Morris saw Washington, he
grasped his hand in silence, tears welling up in his eyes. Morris wasted away in
prison for three years.
While in Philadelphia, Washington made time to dine with President Adams
and attempted to mend fences, but Adams still reacted to Washington in a manner
tinged with paranoia. He had come to feel that his cabinet ofﬁcers were “puppets
danced upon the wires of two jugglers behind the scene and these jugglers were
Hamilton and Washington.”93 One day in February 1799 Senator Theodore Sedgwick, a convinced Federalist, happened to ask Adams whether Washington would
carry the title of General in the new army. The mere question kindled an explosive
retort from the president. “What, are you going to appoint him general over the
president?” Adams sputtered, his voice throbbing. “I have not been so blind but I
have seen a combined effect among those who call themselves the friends of government to annihilate the essential powers given by the president.”94 The relationship between the ﬁrst and second presidents never improved.

ch ap ter si x t y-fiv e

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

A Mind on the Stretch

By 179 8 the Federalist party had grown haughty by being too long in power.
“When a party grows strong and feels its power, it becomes intoxicated, grows presumptuous and extravagant, and breaks to pieces,” Johns Adams later wrote, having
presided over just such a situation as president. As the political atmosphere became ever more combative, Federalist overreaching arrived at its apex with passage
of the Alien and Sedition Acts, which tried to squelch criticism of war measures
that President Adams and his congressional allies had undertaken during the undeclared Quasi-War with France. Among other things, these repressive measures
endowed the government with broad powers to deport foreign-born residents
deemed a threat to the peace; brand as enemy aliens any citizens of a country at war
with America; and prosecute those who published “false, scandalous, or malicious”
writings against the U.S. government or Congress, with the intent of bringing them
“into contempt or disrepute.”1 This last act posed a special menace to civil liberties,
since a largely Federalist judiciary would be pursuing Republican journalists.
The Alien and Sedition Acts reﬂected a prevalent Federalist assumption, shared
by Washington, that American “Jacobins” colluded with France in treasonous fashion. While these acts were enacted on Adams’s watch, Washington lent them his
quiet sympathy. Writing to a relative, he at ﬁrst declined to comment on them, then
observed that resident aliens had entered the country “for the express purpose of
poisoning the minds of our people,” thereby estranging “their affections from the
government of their choice” and “endeavoring to dissolve the Union.”2 On another
occasion, he endorsed a Sedition Act prosecution of William Duane of the Aurora,
who had accused the Adams administration of being corrupted by the British gov-

A Mind on the Stretch r! 7 93

ernment. Given the sheer number of lies that he thought were being peddled in the
service of propaganda, Washington’s dismay was understandable. At the same time,
his support for censorship is disappointing given his exemplary record as president
in tolerating even irresponsible press tirades against his administration. Washington often seemed blind to the perils of the Alien and Sedition Acts, arguing that Republican criticism was just another partisan maneuver to discredit the government
and “disturb the public mind with their unfounded and ill-favored forebodings.”3
Even as many Federalists hankered for war with France, President Adams, with
typically feisty resolution, decided in early 1799 to essay diplomacy, sending William Vans Murray to negotiate peace with France and causing howls of outrage in
his own party. Although Washington thought Talleyrand was merely toying with
Adams, he sensed a political shift in the air. With his sound instincts, he suspected
the Murray mission would undercut public support for military preparations, tempering his enthusiasm for the new army. With Hamilton hell-bent on raising that
army, Washington told him what he didn’t want to hear: that the political moment
for its creation had passed. Had it been mustered right after the XYZ uproar, he
speculated, the timing would have been auspicious. But now “unless a material
change takes place, our military theater affords but a gloomy prospect to those who
are to perform the principal parts in the drama.”4 That spring, as Hamilton began
recruiting for the new army in New England, he acknowledged to Washington that
he had, at best, tepid support from President Adams. In the meantime he secretly
meditated the use of the new army to suppress what he saw as traitorous Republican elements in the South. By May 1800 the new army would be disbanded, having
long outlived its usefulness.
In his ﬁnal year George Washington inhabited a world dramatically different
from the more halcyon visions he had foreseen for the country. The storybook
ending might call for an elderly Washington to bask in the serene glow of wisdom. Instead he took to the warpath against the Jeffersonians with a vengeance.
The nonpartisan dream enunciated in the farewell address had expired as the last
vestiges of political civility disappeared. With Washington now a rabid booster of
Federalist candidates, he applauded the election to Congress that spring of Henry
Lee and John Marshall. He had wanted his lean, pale nephew Bushrod to run for
Congress, but instead Adams appointed him to the Supreme Court. Washington’s
letters reverberated with partisan rhetoric as he admonished Bushrod against “any
relaxation on the part of the Federalists. We are sure there will be none on that of
the Republicans, as they have very erroneously called themselves.”5
One area where his foresight had been infallible was in the creation of the federal district. The Residence Act had mandated that the city and its public buildings
should be ready for occupancy no later than December 1800, but the project had

7 94

r! The Legend

been plagued by excessive costs, recurrent delays, and inept management. Washington feared further mishaps would scuttle the whole plan. In his last months as
president, he had ordered the commissioners to suspend work on the President’s
House to focus their energies on the Capitol, the city’s premier symbol. “The public
mind is in a state of doubt, if not in despair, of having the principal building in
readiness for Congress,” he told the commissioners.6
During the summer of 1797 he had toured the ﬂedgling city and thrilled to the
sight of its rising buildings. The President’s House and one wing of the Capitol stood
ready to receive their roofs, while an “elegant bridge” had been thrown across the Potomac.7 Where construction of the new capital had appealed to Washington’s imagination, President Adams groaned under the unwanted burden. “The whole of this
business is new to me,” he complained, telling one commissioner that he would not
“make himself a slave to the Federal City; that he would do what his ofﬁcial duty
required of him and no more.”8 Washington gladly stepped into the vacuum and even
submitted his views on architectural details, as when he advised that the Senate chamber should feature Ionic columns. With a clear vision of how the city should function,
he insisted that executive departments should be situated near the President’s House
to facilitate daily contact between department heads and the president.
As proof of his unswerving commitment to the city, Washington purchased lots
in various locations to avoid accusations of favoritism toward any section. After
hearing criticism that the neighborhood near the Capitol would lack housing for
congressmen, he bought adjoining parcels on North Capitol Street, between B and
C streets, and constructed a pair of attached three-story brick houses designed by
Dr. William Thornton. Boasting that they stood upon “a larger scale than any in the
vicinity of the Capitol,” he said they would be capable of housing “between twenty
and thirty boarders”—an excellent example of Washington’s take-charge spirit.
Much as its backers had intended, the new capital was a southern city that
would be hospitable to slavery, and it continued to owe its existence to slave labor. Noting the arduous work involved in draining swampland, one commissioner
admitted that the project “could not have [been] done without slaves.”9 Five slave
carpenters now labored over the President’s House, and future presidents who lived
there, starting with Jefferson, would enjoy the residence in undisturbed possession
of their human property. When Julian Niemcewicz toured the Capitol in 1798, it
pained him to see slaves hard at work: “I have seen them in large numbers, and I
was very glad that these poor unfortunates earned eight to ten dollars per week. My
joy was not long lived. I am told that they were not working for themselves; their
masters hire them out and retain all the money for themselves. What humanity!
What a country of liberty.”10 For many decades, Washington, D.C., would qualify
as a work in progress. George Washington never lived to see John Adams occupy a

A Mind on the Stretch r! 7 9 5

still-unﬁnished, sparsely furnished President’s House. As he had feared, congressmen complained about the incomplete Capitol and inadequate lodgings, and the
huge Capitol dome was completed only during the Civil War. For a long time the
Capitol and President’s House stood out as splendid but incongruous fragments in
a still barren landscape; only later would the city expand to ﬁll the spacious contours of Washington’s buoyant dream.

D e spi t e h is c h i l dl e s s s tat e , Washington had enjoyed a happy, abundant
family life, having ﬁrst stepchildren and then stepgrandchildren while also serving
as guardian for numerous family orphans at Mount Vernon. After his sister, Betty,
died, he had brought her son Lawrence, a childless widower, to Mount Vernon to
aid with surplus visitors. Like most males, Lawrence fell instantly in love with Nelly
Custis, only this time she reciprocated the attention, producing yet another union of
the Washington and Custis clans. So that Nelly could marry at age twenty, Washington made ofﬁcial his position as her legal guardian, enabling him to sign the marriage license. In a tribute to Nelly’s love for her adoptive grandfather, the wedding
was celebrated by candlelight at Mount Vernon on February 22, 1799, Washington’s
sixty-seventh birthday. Deferring to the bride’s wishes, Washington appeared in his
old blue and buff wartime uniform. Martha “let all the servants come in to see” the
wedding, one slave recalled, and gave them “such good things to eat” as part of the
celebration.11 The newlyweds stayed on as Mount Vernon residents after Washington gave them the vast Dogue Run farm.
Washington’s history with Nelly’s brother, Washy, remained problematic. Despite
Washington’s constant exhortations and the boy’s eternal pledges to reform, the latter dropped out of Princeton, and in 1798 Washington enrolled him in the smaller
St. John’s College in Annapolis. “Mr. Custis possesses competent talents to ﬁt him
for any studies,” Washington promised the school’s president, “but they are counteracted by an indolence of mind, which renders it difﬁcult to draw them into action.”12
For Washington, who felt keen deprivation at having missed college, his grandson’s
apathy must have been frustrating. The boy was never less than affectionate or respectful to him, but like his father before him, he was simply incorrigible.
When young Washington posed the question of whether he should not drop
out of St. John’s as well, the former president threw up his hands in despair: “The
question . . . really astonishes me! for it would seem as if nothing I could say to you
made more than a momentary impression.”13 Bowing to the futility of pushing the
boy any further, Washington had him tutored at Mount Vernon by Tobias Lear.
When Washy then contemplated an inappropriate marriage, Washington tried to
prevent it by getting him appointed to a cavalry troop. He ended up with a fatalistic

796

r! The Legend

attitude toward his trying adopted grandson as someone who meant well but suffered from a congenital inability to make good on his pledges.
A deeper source of discontent in Washington’s last year was the continuing ﬁnancial worries that preyed on his mind, reaching their nadir in the spring of 1799.
Even when he rode off to Philadelphia in November 1798, cheered by the adulatory
multitudes, he gnashed his teeth over his ﬁnances, bewailing that “nothing will answer my purposes like the money, of which I am in extreme want, and must obtain
on disadvantageous terms.”14 Never able to economize, he confessed that “I ﬁnd it
no easy matter to keep my expenditures within the limits of my receipts.”15 Another
drought during the summer of 1799 ruined his oat crop, threatened his corn, and
left his meadows barren, only aggravating his long-standing woes.
With mounting desperation, he badgered people for overdue money and dished
out tough lectures to deadbeats, telling one, in the tone of a surly bill collector, that
“however you may have succeeded in imposing upon and deceiving others, you
shall not practice the like game with me with impunity.”16 While horriﬁed at sending people to debtors’ prison, he believed that he had no choice but to summon
sheriffs to collect the money. For the ﬁrst time in his life, he took recourse to bank
loans, renewed at sixty-day intervals and set at what he termed “ruinous” interest
rates.17 His sales of western lands for emergency infusions of money scarcely kept
pace with his insatiable demands for cash.
Two incidents underlined the gravity of his economic predicament. In October
1799 he decided to sell the houses he had built in the new capital—a terribly public
blow to his pride as well as harmful to the project’s hard-won image. That fall he
also declined two months’ salary as commander in chief. In thanking Secretary of
War McHenry, Washington was frank about his embarrassing predicament: “I shall
not suffer false modesty to assert that my ﬁnances stand in no need of it.”18 He
complained of applicants for army appointments who came “with their servants
and horses . . . to aid in the consumption of my forage and what to me is more
valuable—my time.”19 While public life forced Washington into expenditures beyond his control, during his entire adult life he had exhibited an inability to live
within his means.
Hard as it was for him to admit, he could no longer supervise alone his far-ﬂung
operations, whose inspection had always formed part of his daily routine. In March
1798 he hired a clerk, Albin Rawlins, whose duties went beyond keeping accounts
and drafting letters. Even though Washington still strode around in blue overalls
and mud-spattered boots and was every bit the master of Mount Vernon, for the
ﬁrst time he alluded to difﬁculty in riding his horse. As he told a relative, he had
hired Rawlins, in part, because he now found it “impracticable to use the exercise
(on horseback) which my health, business, and inclination requires.”20

A Mind on the Stretch r! 7 9 7

Washington had never made Mount Vernon the thriving productive enterprise
he wanted. In his last months, he kept saying that the “ﬁrst wish” of his heart was
to simplify and contract operations and live “exempt from cares.”21 To this end, he
planned to rent out his mill, distillery, and ﬁshery businesses and dispose of one
of his farms. Three of the farms—River, Union, and Muddy Hole—he decided to
manage himself, restoring their exhausted ﬁelds through the scientiﬁc crop rotation that had long tantalized his imagination. The simple truth was that he had
spent too many years away from Mount Vernon ever to attain the modern, advanced plantation of his daydreams. Sadly, the date he set for the new dispensation
that would free him from onerous managerial duties was New Year’s Day 1800—a
date he would not live to see.

By 1799 George Washington must have realized that the only respite he would ever
get from politics resided in a peaceful afterlife. That June Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., reminding him of the pending presidential election, expressed the hope that if Washington’s name were brought forward, “you will not disappoint the hopes and desires of
the wise and good . . . by refusing to come forward once more to the relief . . . of your
injured country.”22 Trumbull spoke for many Federalists who worried that Adams was
a weak candidate and were terriﬁed that the Francophile Jefferson might emerge as
the next president. In response, Washington talked like an unabashed Federalist, sarcastically deriding Republican sophistry: “Let that party set up a broomstick and call
it a true son of liberty . . . and it will command their votes in toto!”23 His passionate
words mocked the Jeffersonian myth that his mental powers were impaired, and he
satirized the scuttlebutt that he had lapsed into “dotage and imbecility.”24 He declined
Trumbull’s request on political grounds, claiming that he could not draw a single new
vote from the opposition. His personal reasons were far more cogent. Citing declining
health, he said it would be “criminal therefore in me, although it should be the wish
of my countrymen . . . to accept an ofﬁce under this conviction.”25 Dismayed that,
since mid-March, President Adams had absented himself from the capital, staying at
his home in Quincy, Washington said that Federalists were aggrieved at his behavior
while Republicans “chuckle at and set it down as a favorable omen for themselves.”26
With his usual sense of courtesy, Washington thought it would be unbecoming for
him to advise the president: “It has been suggested to me to make this communication, but I have declined it, conceiving that it would be better received from a private
character—m[ore] in the habits of social intercourse and friendship.”27
At the end of August Washington tossed cold water on Trumbull’s entreaties
a second time. He now sounded even more categorical that “no eye, no tongue,
no thought may be turned towards me for the purpose alluded to therein.”28 If he

798

r! The Legend

ran, he would only be battered with charges of “inconsistency, concealed ambition,
dotage.”29 Having experienced more than enough venom for one lifetime, he did
not care to expose himself further: “A mind that has been constantly on the stretch
since the year 1753, with but short intervals and little relaxation, requires rest and
composure. And I believe that nothing short of a serious invasion of our country . . . will ever draw me from my present retirement.”30
Thanks to the astute, if mercurial, diplomacy of John Adams, such an invasion never happened. When the president sent two envoys to France that October,
without consulting his cabinet ﬁrst, Washington was beset by serious doubts. “I was
surprised at the measure, how much more so at the manner of it?” he told Hamilton. “This business seems to have been commenced in an evil hour and under
unfavorable auspices.”31 But Washington proved wrong, and because of the administration’s successful diplomacy in resolving differences with France, he never had
to take the ﬁeld with the new army.
On November 10, 1799, McHenry warned Washington of burgeoning Republican strength in the upcoming campaign. For many Federalists, it foreshadowed
a threat to the Constitution and the still-fragile strength of the federal government. “I confess, I see more danger to the cause of order and good government at
this moment than has at any time heretofore threatened the country,” McHenry
concluded.32 If Republicans saw the Federalists as threatening republican government, the Federalists saw themselves as upright custodians of the constitutional
order. Previously unaware of the opposition’s strength, Washington claimed to be
“stricken dumb” by McHenry’s letter and replied that political trends seemed “to be
moving by hasty strides to some awful crisis, but in what they will result that Being,
who sees, foresees, and directs all things, alone can tell.”33 So only weeks before his
death, Washington, for all his long-term faith in America’s future, viewed its shortterm prospects as fairly dismal.
On December 9 Gouverneur Morris added his voice to the Federalist chorus
and made a last plea to lure Washington from retirement. The next president, he
pointed out, would hold ofﬁce in Washington, D.C. “Will you not, when the seat
of government is in your neighborhood, enjoy more retirement as President of
the United States than as General of the Army?”34 Making a shrewd pitch, Morris
reviewed the way that each time Washington had returned reluctantly to the public stage, he had been catapulted to higher levels of glory: “If General Washington
had not become [a] member of the [constitutional] convention, he would have
been considered only as the defender and not as the legislator of his country. And
if the president of the convention had not become president of the United States,
he would not have added the character of a statesman to those of a patriot and a
hero.”35 This clever, eloquent appeal went unanswered.

ch ap ter si x t y-si x

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Freedom

It m ay s ay s om et h i ng about the American blind spot toward slavery that
some of the most affecting vignettes of slaves at Mount Vernon emanated from
foreign visitors, while American visitors selectively edited them from the scene. In
April 1797 Louis-Philippe, a young French aristocrat who would become the socalled citizen king of France, toured Mount Vernon and showed commendable curiosity about the slaves’ condition. They were well aware, he learned, of abolitionist
clubs in Alexandria and Georgetown and the violent slave uprising in St. Domingue,
making them hopeful that “they would no longer be slaves in ten years.”1 No less
fascinating was the Frenchman’s observation that many house servants were mulattoes and that some looked strikingly white. Because Washington was often away
from Mount Vernon and seemingly could not have children of his own, suspicion
has never settled on him as having sired biracial children, except for the questionable case of West Ford mentioned earlier.
When Julian Niemcewicz visited Virginia in June 1798, he played billiards with
Washington and enjoyed conversing with Martha, who “loves to talk and talks very
well about times past.”2 He rated Washington as a relatively benevolent slave master: “G[enera]l Washington treats his slaves far more humanely than do his fellow
citizens of Virginia. Most of these gentlemen give to their blacks only bread, water,
and blows.”3 In some respects, Niemcewicz left an absurdly rosy picture of slave existence: “Either from habit, or from natural humor disposed to gaiety, I have never
seen the blacks sad.”4 One recurring theme he overheard was far more accurate:
that slavery was not only cruel but unproﬁtable. Estate manager James Anderson
estimated that only one hundred of the more than three hundred slaves actually

800

r! The Legend

worked, while Washington hypothesized that, from a purely economic standpoint,
his farms held twice as many slaves as needed. The growing number of slave children and elderly slaves meant more mouths to feed and fewer able-bodied hands.
Dr. David Stuart, the husband of Jacky Custis’s widow, ﬂatly asserted that it simply
did not pay to own slaves: “Their support costs a great deal; their work is worth
little if they are not whipped; the [overseer] costs a great deal and steals into the
bargain. We would all agree to free these people, but how to do it with such a great
number?”5
As it happened, George Washington, closeted in his study, was devoting considerable time to answering this most insoluble of questions. He saw, with some
clairvoyance, that slavery threatened the American union to which he had so nobly
consecrated his life. “I can clearly foresee,” he predicted to an English visitor, “that
nothing but the rooting out of slavery can perpetuate the existence of our union,
by consolidating it in a common bond of principle.”6 Beyond moral objections to
slavery, he had wearied of its immense practical difﬁculties. In September 1798 he
regretted that his slaves were “growing more and more insolent and difﬁcult to
govern,” and he seemed to want to be free of the sheer unpleasantness of keeping so
many human beings in bondage.7
Because of natural increase since 1786, the Mount Vernon slave population had
soared from 216 to 317, of whom Washington owned outright 124, with 40 rented
from a neighbor, Penelope Manley French. The remaining 153 dower slaves, who belonged to the Custis estate, would be inherited by her grandson after Martha died.
Writing to Robert Lewis on August 17, 1799, Washington reﬂected on the bafﬂing
conundrum posed by the excess slaves: “To sell the overplus [of slaves] I cannot,
because I am principled against this kind of trafﬁc in the human species. To hire
them out is almost as bad because . . . to disperse the families I have an aversion.
What then is to be done? Something must or I shall be ruined.”8 He possessed “a
thorough conviction that half the workers I keep on this estate would render me
a greater net proﬁt than I now derive from the whole.”9 That he owned fewer than
half the slaves himself perhaps set the stage for the most courageous action of his
career. If he emancipated his own slaves in his will, he would satisfy his conscience,
set a sterling example for futurity, and still leave a viable plantation behind. In 1799
a convenient convergence of economic and moral factors enabled Washington to
settle the issue that had so long gnawed at his mind.
George and Martha Washington had to perceive that their smartest slaves and
those in highest standing were most likely to escape, Hercules and Ona Judge being
prime recent examples. In early 1798 a slave called Caesar, in his late forties and able
to read and write, ran away. Partial to black-and-white clothing, he had functioned
as a self-appointed preacher among Mount Vernon’s slaves. In a runaway slave no-

Freedom r! 8 01

tice inserted in the newspaper, Washington offered a reward for Caesar’s arrest and
attested that he had ﬂed “without having received any correction, or threats of punishment, or, in short, without any cause whatever.”10 The escape formed part of a
now-familiar pattern: seemingly docile slaves quietly bided their time, called no
attention to themselves, then suddenly ﬂed when the moment was propitious.
After Billy Lee was crippled, Washington had turned to a young slave, Christopher Sheels, as his body servant. After Washington stepped down as president,
Sheels had been bitten by a rabid dog. Washington valued him so highly that he sent
him back to Pennsylvania for treatment, informing the doctor there that “besides
the call of humanity, I am particularly anxious for his cure, he being my own body
servant.”11 When Sheels asked Washington for permission to marry a mulatto slave
on another plantation, Washington blessed the match, even though it opened up
fresh temptations for Sheels to escape. In September 1799 Washington discovered
that Sheels indeed intended to ﬂee with his bride aboard a ship. Although Washington must have reprimanded him, there is no evidence that he punished him. The
incident surely made him question anew the wisdom of owning human beings who
naturally yearned to be free, no matter how well treated. Over the previous four
decades, at least forty-seven slaves belonging to George and Martha Washington
had made a brave dash for freedom.12
Always a methodical, well-organized man, George Washington experienced the
“greatest anxiety” about leaving his affairs in order after he died. No less than in
life, he craved the world’s posthumous approval and was eager “that no reproach
may attach itself to me when I have taken my departure for the land of spirits.”13 In
early July 1799 he summoned up the courage, in the seclusion of his study, to draft a
remarkable new will. He did not use a lawyer and laboriously wrote out the twentynine pages in his own handwriting, disclosing his plans to nobody. In the text, he
mentioned that “no professional character has been consulted,” observed that it had
taken many “leisure hours to digest” the document, and hoped it wouldn’t “appear
crude and incorrect”—an odd apology for an ex-president, harking back one last
time to his insufﬁcient education.14 Everything was spelled out with painstaking
precision, including an inventory that listed 51,000 acres of land.
In a comprehensive catalog of his slaves, Washington divided them by farms
and jotted down their names and ages. These statistics offered dramatic proof that,
without prompt remedial action, his slave population would burgeon. Of the 277
slaves he and Martha controlled, no fewer than 98 were under the age of twelve. The
trickiest issue he faced was strikingly evident: 90 slaves were reported as married.
Many of Washington’s slaves had married Martha’s dower slaves or else slaves at
nearby plantations.
The portions of the will relating to the slaves stand out as written with special

8 02

r! The Legend

vigor. At the outset, Washington referred to Martha as “my dearly beloved wife” and
gave her the use of his whole estate.15 He made clear that he did not want to deprive her of income generated by the slaves as long as she lived: “Upon the decease
[of] my wife, it is my will and desire th[at] all the slaves which I hold in [my] own
right shall receive their free[dom].”16 While he had “earnestly wished” to free them
upon his own death, that would entail breaking up marriages between his own
slaves and dower slaves, provoking “the most painful sensations, if not disagreeable consequences.”17 Of course, waiting to free the slaves he owned until Martha
died only postponed the problem instead of solving it. (Martha could not free the
dower slaves, who were committed to the Custis heirs.) Mindful of the young and
elderly slaves who might have difﬁculty coping with sudden freedom, Washington
made special provision that they “shall be comfortably clothed and fed by my heirs
while they live.”18 At a time when black education was feared as a threat to white
supremacy, Washington ordered that the young slaves, before being freed, should
“be taught to read and write and to be brought up to some useful occupation.”19 He
also provided a fund to care for slaves too sick or aged to enjoy the sudden fruits
of freedom. Unlike Jefferson, Washington did not wish to banish free blacks from
Virginia and made no mention of colonizing them elsewhere, as if he foresaw them
becoming part of a racially mixed community. Nor did he express fear of racial
intermingling once his slaves were emancipated. He must have had a premonition
that Martha or other family members would water down or bypass these daring
instructions, so he expressly said that they should be “religiously fulﬁlled” by the
executors.20
Singled out for special treatment was Billy Lee, who had earned an honored
place in the annals of Washington’s life. Now incapacitated by his knee troubles, he
worked as a shoemaker at the Mansion House farm. Washington directed that “my
mulatto man William (calling himself William Lee) I give immediate freedom; or, if
he should prefer it (on account of the accidents which have befallen him and which
have rendered him incapable of walking or of any active employment) to remain in
the situation he now is, shall be optional in him to do so. In either case, I allow him
an annuity of thirty dollars during his natural life” beyond the food and clothing
he already received. Washington gratefully acknowledged “his attachment to me
and . . . his faithful services during the Revolutionary War.”21
By freeing his slaves, Washington accomplished something more glorious than
any battleﬁeld victory as a general or legislative act as a president. He did what no
other founding father dared to do, although all proclaimed a theoretical revulsion
at slavery. He brought the American experience that much closer to the ideals of
the American Revolution and brought his own behavior in line with his troubled
conscience. On slave plantations, the death of a master usually unleashed a mood of

Freedom r! 8 03

terror as slaves contemplated being sold to other masters or possibly severed from
their families. Now Washington reversed the usual situation, relieving the dread
and making the death of the master and mistress an occasion for general rejoicing
among the slaves—at least if one set aside the thorny complexities of the intermingling through marriage of Washington’s slaves and Martha’s dower slaves.
In another visionary section of the will, Washington left money to advance the
founding of a university in the District of Columbia, possibly under government
auspices, where students could observe government ﬁrsthand and shed their “local
attachments and state prejudices.”22 This phrase was more than a mere restatement
of Washington’s nationalism: it spoke to the way his own life had transcended his
parochial background. Back in 1785 Washington had been ﬂustered and embarrassed when the state of Virginia granted him shares in the Potomac and James
River companies, and he had accepted them only with the proviso that they would
be dedicated to public uses. Now he pledged his ﬁfty shares of the Potomac River
Company to the new university in the capital and his hundred shares of the James
River Company to Liberty Hall Academy in western Virginia, which later became
Washington and Lee University. He also left twenty shares in the Bank of Alexandria for a school, associated with the Alexandria Academy, to educate orphaned and
indigent children.
In a demonstration of his humility, Washington did not seek to preserve Mount
Vernon as a monument to his career; rather he planned to dismantle the estate he
had spent a lifetime assembling, dividing it among relatives after Martha’s death.
A thoroughgoing family man, he included more than ﬁfty relatives in his will. His
nephew Bushrod Washington would receive the coveted Mansion House and surrounding four thousand acres of farm. In part, Washington wished to repay a debt
to Bushrod’s father, who had managed Mount Vernon while he fought in the French
and Indian War. Washington may also have believed that Bushrod, as a Supreme
Court justice, needed a suitably high-toned place for entertaining dignitaries. He
also demonstrated his faith in his nephew by leaving him a prized possession: the
civil and military papers that he had tended with such assiduous care. Washington
remarked that, once he realized he would not have children of his own, he had
decided to consider Martha’s grandchildren “as I do my own relations and to act a
friendly part by them.”23 This was especially true of Nelly and Washy. That fall Lawrence and Nelly Lewis had already received the two-thousand-acre farm at Dogue
Run, while George Washington Parke Custis got twelve hundred acres in Alexandria
and an entire square that Washington owned in the new capital. The two orphaned
sons of George Augustine Washington split another two-thousand-acre farm.
A story, likely apocryphal, is told that one morning that September Washington awoke from a disturbing dream, which he narrated to Martha. An angel had

8 04

r! The Legend

appeared to him in a sudden burst of light and stood whispering in Martha’s ear.
Martha then became pale and began to fade from sight altogether, leaving Washington feeling alone and desolate. According to lore, he interpreted this dream as a
premonition of his own death and was oppressed for days by its lingering memory.
Whatever the veracity of this story, it expressed a truth about the mortality-laden
mood of the Washington household that fall. For nearly two months in September and October Martha tried to shake a fever that produced “uneasy and restless
symptoms” and resulted in at least one midnight summons to Dr. Craik.24 No less
stoical than her husband and sharing his philosophy of minimal medication, she
at ﬁrst refused to take any remedy that might moderate the fever, but she recovered
by late October.
On September 20, while she was sick, Washington absorbed the additional bad
news that the last of his siblings, his younger brother Charles, had died. “I was the
ﬁrst, and am now the last, of my father’s children by the second marriage who remain,” he remarked. “When I shall be called upon to follow them is known only to
the giver of life.”25 In late November Martha’s younger sister Elizabeth Henley also
died, meaning that she had outlived all seven of her siblings. George and Martha
Washington must have felt that their remaining time was brief and that their accomplishments already belonged to history.

ch ap ter si x t y-sev en

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr

Homecoming

A f t e r l e av i ng t h e pr e si de nc y, Washington had sworn a whimsical
pledge to friends that he would not “quit the theater of this world before the year
1800,” and it looked as if he might deliver on his half-humorous resolve to ﬁnish out
the century.1 When Elizabeth Carrington socialized with the Washingtons that fall,
she found them in good spirits, with Martha looking “venerable, kind and plain.”2
Though increasingly deaf, the ex-president was in a convivial mood and happy to
relive the glories of yesteryear, staying up past midnight to spin out wartime narratives. On December 9 he bade nephew Howell Lewis a memorable farewell at the
door of Mount Vernon. “It was a bright, frosty morning,” Howell recalled, “and . . .
the clear, healthy ﬂush of [Washington’s] cheek and his sprightly manner brought
the remark . . . that we had never seen the General look so well.”3
Resigned to the close of his political career, Washington remarked in November
that, with the ship of state now aﬂoat, he was content to be “a passenger only” and
would “trust to the mariners, whose duty it is to watch, to steer it into a safe port.”4
On December 12, he composed a last letter to Hamilton, applauding his plan for
an American military academy. In a ﬁtting ﬁnale to a patriotic life, he endorsed the
concept wholeheartedly: “The establishment of an institution of this kind . . . has
ever been considered by me as an object of primary importance to this country.”5
This was the last political letter that ﬂowed from his proliﬁc pen.
From his earliest days, Washington had led an outdoors life, trusting to his body’s
recuperative powers and suffering poor health early in his presidency when he became too sedentary. Perhaps, as one relative later reﬂected, he had relied too much
on his health and “exposed himself without common caution to the heat in summer

806

r! The Legend

and cold in winter.”6 In late November, renewing his old surveying skills, he spent
three days running property lines in northern Fairfax County. This heedless behavior—if such it was—might have proved his undoing. On the other hand, had he not
spent his whole life defying fate, bullets, the British Empire, and the elements?
On Thursday, December 12, Washington brushed aside inclement weather to
make a full ﬁve-hour tour of his farms on horseback. His diary entry told of the
dreadful weather: “About 1 o’clock, it began to snow—soon after to hail and then
turned to a settled, cold rain.”7 When he arrived home for the midday meal, his
nape was slick with rain, his hair matted with snow. With customary courtesy, the
sodden host did not wish to keep his guests waiting and sat down to eat without
changing his damp clothes. The next day the snow fell even harder, piling up three
inches deep on the ground. Despite a sore throat, Washington trudged down the hill
toward the Potomac in the late afternoon light. Still determined to perfect Mount
Vernon, he planned a gravel walk and ﬁshpond by the river and now marked out
trees that he wanted cut down to improve the landscape. In a ﬁnal letter to James
Anderson, he carped about the ﬁlthy cattle stalls at one farm: “Such a pen as I saw
yesterday at Union Farm would, if the cattle were kept in it one week, destroy the
whole of them.”8 It was apt that, in this valedictory letter, Washington came across
as the same old exacting, hypercritical boss.
Although he experienced hoarseness and chest congestion that evening, Washington’s mood was cheerful. He smarted at old political wounds from onetime allies. When he read aloud a newspaper story that James Madison had nominated
James Monroe for Virginia governor, he allowed himself some acerbic comments.
He spurned Lear’s advice to take medicine. “You know I never take anything for a
cold,” he protested. “Let it go as it came.”9 Instead, he sat up late in his library before mounting the steps to his bedroom. Martha expressed dismay that he had not
come upstairs earlier, but he said that he had done so as soon as he had ﬁnished his
business. In the middle of the night, he awoke with a raw, inﬂamed throat. When
he shook Martha awake, she grew alarmed by his labored breathing and wanted to
fetch a servant, but he feared she might catch a chill on this cold night. Once again
relying on his body’s restorative powers, he had Martha wait until daybreak to call
for help. When a slave named Caroline kindled a ﬁre in the early morning, Martha
asked her to scout out Tobias Lear, who found Washington breathing with difﬁculty
and scarcely able “to utter a word intelligibly.”10 Christopher Sheels propped up his
master in a chair by the ﬁre as Lear sent a swift slave to Alexandria for Dr. Craik,
the Scottish physician who had served Washington with such fervent devotion since
the French and Indian War. Meanwhile, to soothe his ﬂaming throat, Washington
consumed a syrupy blend of molasses, vinegar, and butter, though he nearly choked
when he tried to swallow it.

Homecoming r! 8 0 7

Washington’s last day was spent in a lovely but simple setting, a plain bedroom
prettily decorated with a table, armchair, and dressing table. As he faced death, Washington’s indomitable poise was remarkable. With preternatural self-control, he had
an overseer named George Rawlins bleed him before Dr. Craik arrived. When Rawlins blanched, Washington gently but ﬁrmly pressed him. “Don’t be afraid,” he said,
and once Rawlins had sliced into the skin, making the blood run freely, he added,
“The oriﬁce is not large enough.”11 Martha showed better medical judgment and
pleaded for a halt to the bleeding, but Washington urged Rawlins on, saying “More,
more!” until nearly a pint of blood had been drained.12 A piece of moist ﬂannel was
wrapped around his throat while his feet were soaked in warm water.
As they awaited Dr. Craik, Martha summoned the eminent Dr. Gustavus Richard Brown of Port Tobacco. Dr. Craik, arriving ﬁrst, perpetuated the medieval treatments already in use, emptying more blood and applying to the throat cantharides,
a preparation made from dried beetles, to draw the inﬂammation to the surface.
He also had Washington inhale steam from a teapot ﬁlled with vinegar and hot
water. When Washington tilted back his head to gargle sage tea mixed with vinegar,
he nearly suffocated. Alarmed, Dr. Craik summoned a third doctor, Elisha Cullen
Dick, a young Mason from Alexandria, who had studied under Dr. Benjamin Rush.
Upon entering, he joined Craik in siphoning off more blood, which “came very
slow, was thick, and did not produce any symptoms of fainting,” wrote Lear.13 They
also evacuated Washington’s bowels with an enema. Joined at last by Dr. Brown,
they took two more pints from Washington’s depleted body. It has been estimated
that Washington surrendered ﬁve pints of blood altogether, or about half of his
body’s total supply.14 Dr. Dick recommended a still rare and highly experimental
procedure—a tracheotomy that would have punched open a hole in Washington’s
trachea, easing his breathing—only to be overruled by Craik and Brown. “I shall
never cease to regret that the operation was not performed,” Dick said afterward,
likening the three physicians to drowning men grasping at straws.15 It is highly improbable, however, that Washington would have survived such a procedure, given
his already weakened state.
As Tobias Lear sat by the bedside, grasping his mentor’s hand, Washington
issued some ﬁnal instructions that reﬂect his preoccupation with both his posthumous fame and his solvency: “I believed from the ﬁrst that the disorder would
prove fatal. Do you arrange and record all my late military letters and papers. Arrange my accounts and settle my books . . . and let Mr. Rawlins ﬁnish recording my
other letters, which he has begun.”16 When Lear remarked that he hoped the end
wasn’t near, Washington smiled calmly and said that he regarded his own demise
“with perfect resignation.”17
After Dick and Brown left the room, Craik lingered by his old friend. “Doc-

808

r! The Legend

tor, I die hard,” Washington said, “but I am not afraid to go.”18 Convinced the end
was imminent, he told Martha to go downstairs to his study and remove a pair of
wills from his desk drawer. He then took the earlier will—likely the one he drew
up when named commander in chief in 1775—and told her to burn it, while saving the historic one drawn up in July, which freed his slaves. That Washington had
preserved both wills may suggest some last-minute wavering on the manumission
issue. It said much about his lifelong dependence on slavery that he was now attended by four slaves—Caroline, Charlotte, Molly, and Christopher Sheels. Sadly,
the four slaves assigned to this deathwatch were all dower slaves who would reap no
beneﬁt from the emancipation section of the will.
Though he never complained, Washington was expiring in a particularly gruesome fashion and constantly gasped for air. Climbing into bed bedside him, Lear
kept gingerly turning him over to try to relieve the congestion. “He appeared penetrated with gratitude for my attentions and often said, ‘I am afraid I shall fatigue
you too much.’ And upon my assuring him that I could feel nothing but a wish
to give him ease, he replied, ‘Well! It is a debt we must pay to each other and I
hope when you want aid of this kind, you will ﬁnd it.”19 Even in death, Washington
never lapsed into self-absorption and remained singularly attuned to other people’s
moods, showing the same sensitivity that had made him a uniquely effective political leader. At one point, noticing that Christopher Sheels had been standing since
morning, Washington urged the young slave to sit down.
Handicapped by the benighted state of medical knowledge, the three doctors
were utterly perplexed about what to do, and Washington showed compassion for
their bafﬂement. “I feel myself going,” he told them early in the evening. “I thank
you for your attentions, but I pray you to take no more trouble about me. Let me
go off quietly. I cannot last long.”20 A couple of hours later they applied blisters
and wheat bran poultices to his legs and throat, though they harbored little hope
of an improvement. Washington had a horror of being buried alive, and around
ten o’clock he conveyed this to Lear: “Have me decently buried and do not let my
body be put into the vault in less than three days after I am dead.”21 Lear promised
to honor his wish, which consoled Washington, making his breathing a triﬂe easier.
This fear of premature burial was common at the time; Elizabeth Powel, for instance, left instructions in her will that the lid of her cofﬁn should not be screwed
on until minutes before it was lowered into the earth.
While retaining complete control of his faculties, as best we can tell, Washington
never sought religious solace or offered any prayers as he lay dying. That no minister was summoned may also reﬂect the doctors’ misjudgment of the proximity of
death. With his stoic toughness, somber gallantry, and clear conscience, the patient
was reconciled to his own mortality. Several times this most punctual of men asked

Homecoming r! 8 0 9

what hour it was. Orchestrating matters until the very end, he had the presence
of mind to take his own pulse and felt the life suddenly ebbing from his body. At
that moment he perished. “The general’s hand fell from his wrist,” wrote Tobias
Lear. “I took it in mine and put it into my bosom. Dr. Craik put his hands over his
eyes.” Washington, he said, had “expired without a struggle or a sigh!”22 Christopher
Sheels stood by the bedside, with Caroline, Charlotte, and Molly gazing nearby. Performing one ﬁnal service for his master, Sheels emptied the keys from his pockets
and passed them to Tobias Lear. It was December 14, 1799. Washington had died
at age sixty-seven, long-lived by the tragically short standards of the men in his
family.
All the while, at the foot of the bed, Martha Washington had sat in a motionless
vigil, very much the Roman matron with her marble composure. “Is he gone?” she
asked. With his hand, Lear indicated that Washington had died. “ ’Tis well,” Martha
replied, repeating her husband’s last words. “All is now over. I shall soon follow
him! I have no more trials to pass through.”23 This last line speaks volumes about
the suffering she had silently withstood, the perpetual sacriﬁces she had made for
her husband and her country. Haunted by this moment, she never slept in that
bedroom again.
Washington died in a manner that beﬁt his life: with grace, dignity, selfpossession, and a manifest regard for others. He never yielded to shrieks, hysteria,
or unseemly complaints. His doctors had treated him as if he were suffering from
“quinsy,” or a throat inﬂammation. From a modern vantage point, it seems likely
that a bacterial infection had caused his epiglottis—the ﬂexible cartilage at the entrance to the voice box—to become grossly inﬂamed and swollen, shutting off the
windpipe and making breathing and swallowing an agonizing ordeal. Along with
the rounds of debilitating bleedings, Washington’s ﬁnal hours must have been hellish, yet he had endured them with exemplary composure.
The day after Washington died, Tobias Lear sent instructions to Alexandria for
a mahogany cofﬁn to house Washington’s remains. In all likelihood, Christopher
Sheels performed the solemn rite of washing and readying his master’s cadaver.
Abiding by Washington’s wishes, the funeral at Mount Vernon did not take place
until four days after his death, on December 18, 1799. From beyond the grave, Washington was still stage-managing events, having stipulated in his will a desire to be
“interred in a private manner, without parade or funeral oration.”24 After suffering
through many tedious tributes, he wanted to temper public adulation, although he
must have suspected that his humble wish would be ignored by a devoted public.
Instead of a lavish funeral, he had a simple military burial. At three p.m.,
a schooner anchored in the Potomac began ﬁring minute guns, and the funeral
cortège shufﬂed across the lawn, then swept down the hillside to the family vault.

810

r! The Legend

The mourners stepped softly to the mufﬂed hush of drums and mournful, elegiac music. A Virginia cavalry unit led the march, trailed by infantry, a band, and
four clergymen in black suits. Then came two slaves, Cyrus and Wilson, leading
the general’s horse, which was plainly outﬁtted with a saddle and pistols stuffed
in their holsters—an apt image for a legendary horseman who had always looked
magniﬁcent astride a mount. The cofﬁn was borne by six pallbearers, ﬁve of them
Masons, followed by the mayor of Alexandria and the chief Mount Vernon employees. Conspicuously absent was Martha Washington, who likely stayed hidden in an
upstairs bedroom, too traumatized to venture forth. For once, her sense of public
duty deserted her. As a remembrance of her husband, she asked Tobias Lear to snip
locks of hair from the corpse before it was deposited in the cofﬁn. At the burial
vault, the Reverend Thomas Davis pronounced the Order of Burial from the Episcopal Prayer Book. Then, testifying to Washington’s deep faith in the brotherhood
of Freemasonry, Dr. Elisha Dick stepped forward and, in his capacity as Worshipful
Master of Masonic Lodge No. 22 in Alexandria, ofﬁciated over rituals performed
by Masons garbed in their customary aprons. As the cofﬁn was stored in the vault
overlooking the Potomac, eleven cannon ﬁred volleys into the air, and infantry discharged their muskets.
Free of grandiosity or false sentiment, the funeral was restricted to family,
friends, neighbors, and associates—exactly as Washington might have wished. He
had always been civic-minded, and the strong institutional presence—the government, the military, the church, the Masons—mirrored the priorities of his life. No
less appropriate was the symbolic presence of the invisible workers who had made
his epic success story possible: eight slaves, clad in black, all but one of them dower
slaves with nothing to gain from Washington’s will. For the slaves, the sole immediate beneﬁt of the funeral was that, after all the guests had departed, the “remains of
the provisions” were circulated in their quarters.
The family vault where Washington was entombed had been dug into a grassy
slope, topped by a knoll with juniper, willow, chestnut, and cypress trees. This crypt
was so overgrown with vegetation that it seemed to disappear into the hillside and
breathed a damp, moldy air of decay, causing Washington to leave instructions for
a new brick vault. It speaks to Washington’s humility that the greatest man of his
age was laid to rest in a communal tomb where nobody could single out his grave
or honor him separately. All visitors could do was peer through the slats of a rough
oak door into a gloomy, malodorous den of ancient cofﬁns. Some souvenir hunters
later reached in and tore swatches from the black velvet pall covering Washington’s cofﬁn until it grew ragged with neglect. In 1818 an appalled traveler objected
that Washington had been “permitted to remain in obscurity and neglect, without
a mausoleum, monument, inscription, a stone, or anything else to point [where]

Homecoming r! 81 1

the hero and statesman repose or any evidence of his country’s gratitude.”25 Another visitor left a still more horrifying description, comparing the vault to a “bake
oven” and condemning it as “a low damp little place that is crammed with cofﬁns,
some of which are moldered to ashes and the bones are strewed on the pavement.”
When this visitor spotted a skull on the ground, a gardener told him it belonged
to Lawrence Washington, the beloved older half brother of the ﬁrst president. In
later years, after a new tomb was built at Mount Vernon, the cofﬁns of George and
Martha Washington were transferred to marble sarcophagi.
After his death, Washington’s will was made public and quickly became available in pamphlet form. If he had hoped that other slave masters would emulate his
example in liberating his slaves, he was cruelly mistaken. Not only had the slave
population of the United States grown rapidly for forty years, but the introduction
of the cotton gin was ushering in a vast and terrifying expansion of slavery. By 1804
all the northern states had enacted laws for terminating slavery, but it persisted in
the South in an entrenched form.
As soon as word of Washington’s death spread, church bells pealed in every city
and business wound to a standstill. “Each man, when he heard that Washington
was dead, shut his store as a matter of course, without consultation,” one Bostonian recalled, “and in two hours all business was stopped.”26 Starting with President
Adams, government ofﬁcials wore black clothing, army ofﬁcers donned crape on
their left arms, naval vessels ﬂew their colors at half-mast, and the hall of Congress
was draped in black. At her receptions Abigail Adams demanded that ladies restrict
themselves to black gloves and fans.
No political ﬁgure felt more bereft than Alexander Hamilton, who owed so much
to the older man’s steadfast patronage and understanding. “Perhaps no friend of his
has more cause to lament on personal account than myself,” he told an associate,
saying that Washington had been “an aegis very essential to me.”27 Such deep grief
was not universal. Unable to conquer his envy, President Adams quietly recoiled at
the Washington adoration and later griped that the Federalists had “done themselves and their country invaluable injury by making Washington their military,
political, religious, and even moral Pope and ascribing everything to him.”28 It was
all a plot, he insinuated, “to cast into the background and the shade all others who
had been concerned in the service of their country in the revolution.”29
On December 19 John Marshall rose in the House to register the formal notiﬁcation of Washington’s death. A week later a huge, subdued funeral procession snaked
from Congress Hall to the German Lutheran Church. There General Henry Lee
delivered his famous funeral oration in which he eulogized Washington as “First
in war, ﬁrst in peace, and ﬁrst in the hearts of his countrymen,” while further noting that the deceased was “second to none in the humble and endearing scenes of

81 2

r! The Legend

private life.”30 For all the fervor in commemorating Washington’s death, Congress
never made good on its intention to transfer Washington’s remains to a marble
crypt in the Capitol, as he had perhaps expected.
By the time of his death, Washington had poured his last ounce of passion into
the creation of his country. Never a perfect man, he always had a normal quota
of human frailty, including a craving for money, status, and fame. Ambitious and
self-promoting in his formative years, he had remained a tightﬁsted, sharp-elbowed
businessman and a hard-driving slave master. But over the years, this man of deep
emotions and strong opinions had learned to subordinate his personal dreams
and aspirations to the service of a larger cause, evolving into a statesman with a
prodigious mastery of political skills and an unwavering sense of America’s future
greatness. In the things that mattered most for his country, he had shown himself
capable of constant growth and self-improvement.
George Washington possessed the gift of inspired simplicity, a clarity and purity
of vision that never failed him. Whatever petty partisan disputes swirled around
him, he kept his eyes ﬁxed on the transcendent goals that motivated his quest.
As sensitive to criticism as any other man, he never allowed personal attacks or
threats to distract him, following an inner compass that charted the way ahead.
For a quarter century, he had stuck to an undeviating path that led straight to the
creation of an independent republic, the enactment of the Constitution, and the
formation of the federal government. History records few examples of a leader who
so earnestly wanted to do the right thing, not just for himself but for his country.
Avoiding moral shortcuts, he consistently upheld such high ethical standards that
he seemed larger than any other ﬁgure on the political scene. Again and again the
American people had entrusted him with power, secure in the knowledge that he
would exercise it fairly and ably and surrender it when his term of ofﬁce was up. He
had shown that the president and commander in chief of a republic could possess a
grandeur surpassing that of all the crowned heads of Europe. He brought maturity,
sobriety, judgment, and integrity to a political experiment that could easily have
grown giddy with its own vaunted success, and he avoided the backbiting, envy, and
intrigue that detracted from the achievements of other founders. He had indeed
been the indispensable man of the American Revolution.
Washington had dominated American political life for so long that many Americans could not conceive of life without him. A widespread fear arose that, deprived
of his guiding hand, the Republic itself might founder. One preacher wondered,
“Will not darkness now gather in our land? . . . Who knows but [his death] is the
loud harbinger of approaching calamity.”31 Perhaps as an antidote to such apprehension, Washington was smothered beneath national piety, and it became difﬁcult for biographers to reclaim the complex human being. The man immediately

Homecoming r! 813

began to merge into the myth. As the subject of more than four hundred printed
orations, Washington was converted into an exemplar of moral values, the person
chosen to tutor posterity in patriotism, even a civic deity. In one eulogy Timothy
Dwight compared Washington to Moses and noted, “Comparison with him is become almost proverbial.”32 Washington’s transformation into a sacred ﬁgure erased
his tough, often moody nature, stressing only his serene composure and making it
more difﬁcult for future generations to fathom his achievements. Abigail Adams
justly rebelled at the idealized portrait: “Simple truth is his best, his greatest eulogy.”33 She was certainly correct that, to be convincing, Washington’s greatness did
not need to be cleaned up or sanitized, only honestly presented.
A popular print called the Apotheosis of Washington showed him ascending to
heaven above Mount Vernon. Seated on a throne, resting on a cloud, and caught in
a thick shaft of celestial light, he was clad in white robes with an outstretched arm as
a winged angel received him. As the Father of His Country evolved into a divinity,
some clergymen wanted to insert his farewell address into the Bible as an epilogue.
The departed leader’s image sprouted everywhere. “Every American considers it his
sacred duty to have a likeness of Washington in his home, just as we have images
of God’s saints,” observed a European traveler.34 Later deploring the “idolatrous
worship” of Washington, Dr. Benjamin Rush saw it “manifested in the impious application of names and epithets to him which are ascribed in Scripture only to
God and to Jesus Christ,” and he mentioned “our Savior” and “our Redeemer” as
examples.35
Hagiographic biographies poured from the presses with indecent haste. The
ﬁrst and most inﬂuential was by Parson Mason L. Weems, an itinerant book peddler and Episcopal priest who had once been introduced to Washington by Dr.
Craik. Weems had already published tracts on the perils of everything from gambling to masturbation. Eager to cash in on Washington mania, he wrote to his publisher in mid-January 1800, “Washington, you know is gone! Millions are gaping
to read something about him.”36 Weems rushed out the ﬁrst edition of The Life of
Washington in pamphlet form that year. In that and succeeding editions, he manufactured enduring myths about Washington refusing to lie about chopping down
the cherry tree, hurling a silver dollar across the Rappahannock, and praying at Valley Forge. Weems imagined future schoolchildren asking, “What was it that raised
Washington to his godlike height of glory?”37 Perhaps sensing something too stern
and difﬁcult about the real Washington, Weems tried to humanize him through
treacly fables designed to inculcate patriotism and morality. He showed no scruples
about inventing scenes whole cloth. Weems claimed that when Washington’s father
died, George “fell upon his father’s neck . . . kissed him a thousand and a thousand
times and bathed his clay-cold face with scalding tears.”38 To improve sales and with

81 4

r! The Legend

an eye on the main chance, Weems deleted all partisan references, boasting to his
publisher, “Adams and Jefferson both will approve our little piece.”39
If Parson Weems foisted a false image of a stiff, priggish Washington on American schoolchildren, Washington did not fare much better at ﬁrst with more serious
biographers. Bushrod Washington had inherited Washington’s papers and knew
they would be the ideal source material for a biography. To write an authorized
life, he wooed one of Washington’s foremost admirers, John Marshall, who wrote
the book after he became chief justice and joined Bushrod on the Supreme Court.
Marshall devoted ﬁve volumes to inﬂating Washington into a ﬁgure sculpted from
marble. For all his deep knowledge of Washington, however, he could not make his
old friend come alive, prompting one disgruntled critic to grumble, “We look in
vain . . . for any sketch or anecdote that might ﬁx a distinguishing feature of private
character in the memory.”40 Like Weems, Marshall edited out Washington’s more
turbulent, unruly emotions. John Adams mocked the biography as “a mausoleum,
100 feet square at the base and 200 feet high.”41 The public didn’t warm to the Marshall biography, which presented Washington as a distant ﬁgure, and sales ﬂagged.
In the 1820s Jared Sparks, later president of Harvard, prevailed upon Bushrod
Washington and John Marshall to let him publish the ﬁrst edition of Washington’s
papers, which ran to twelve volumes. So began the scholarly process of disinterring
Washington from the many legends that had already encrusted his life.

M a rt h a Wa sh i ngt on h a d s ac r i f ic e d so much privacy during her married life that after her husband died, she evened the score by burning their personal
correspondence—to the everlasting chagrin of historians. By the standards of her
day, her act was neither unusual nor wanton. After Alexander Hamilton died in a
duel in 1804, Elizabeth Hamilton burned all her letters to him, although she did take
care to preserve, with loving ﬁdelity, his letters to her.
However much Martha sought to be a brave, cheerful widow, she was inconsolable in her grief. “I listened with tender interest to a sorrow, which she said was truly
breaking her heart,” reported a British companion.42 A miniature portrait by Robert
Field shows her pale, round face closely framed by a frilly white cap and surrounded
by the black ribbon that betokened widowhood. Martha was not so much learning
to live with bereavement as marking time until she could rejoin her husband. She
refused to enter his study or the bedroom they had shared; she took up residence
in a tiny attic chamber on the third ﬂoor at Mount Vernon, where she met with her
sewing circle of slaves. Since Washington Custis kept a room on the same ﬂoor, she
enjoyed some distraction by doting anxiously on her grandson. She haunted the
narrow footpath that ran down to the family vault and often sounded a despairing

Homecoming r! 815

note. “I always have one complaint or another,” she told a correspondent. “I never
expect to be well as long as I live in this world.”43
Always warmly hospitable to visitors, Martha made no effort to mask her bottomless sadness and distributed locks of her husband’s hair like so many saintly
relics. Sally Foster Otis detected the contradiction when Martha spoke “of death as
a pleasant journey which is in contemplation,” while at the same time being “cheerful [and] anxious to perform the most minute civility and unerring in every duty.”44
Having buried two husbands, four children, and seven siblings, she saw herself as
living on borrowed time. When the Reverend Manasseh Cutler visited, she reminisced about her husband with tremendous affection while “viewing herself as left
alone, and her life protracted, until she had become a stranger in the world . . . She
longed for the time to follow her departed friend.”45
One insuperable problem that shadowed her was the fate of more than 120 slaves
designated for freedom by her husband. Because Washington had not consulted her
about his will, some scholars have speculated that she did not share his critical views
about slavery. Impatient to claim their promised freedom, some of Washington’s
own slaves decided to escape at once: the remainder knew that the second Martha
died, they could cast off their shackles. Unnerved by the situation, Martha admitted
to a conﬁdant that she “was made unhappy by the talk in the [slave] quarters of the
good time coming to the ones to be freed as soon as she died.”46 For all his thoroughness, Washington had committed this one glaring oversight, thrusting Martha
into a nightmarish situation. On a visit to Mount Vernon, Abigail Adams observed
Martha’s extreme distress as she conﬁded that “she did not feel as though her life
was safe in [the slaves’] hands,” since many of them “would be told that it was their
interest to get rid of her.”47 A suspicious event may have settled things for Martha.
“There had been at least one alarming incident, when Judge Bushrod Washington
was urgently called from the circuit court . . . because there had been an attempt to
set ﬁre to Mount Vernon,” writes biographer Helen Bryan. “It was widely believed
that some of the Mount Vernon slaves were implicated.”48 To quiet his aunt’s fears,
Bushrod Washington recommended that she get “clear of her negroes” by freeing
them at once, and she decided to heed his advice.49
A year after George Washington’s death, on January 1, 1801, Martha Washington
signed an order freeing his slaves. Even this move did not entirely end her troubles,
since at least one dower slave tried to escape by portraying himself as one of Washington’s freed slaves. Many of the emancipated slaves, having never strayed far from
Mount Vernon, were naturally reluctant to try their luck elsewhere. Some refused
to abandon spouses or children still held as dower slaves and stayed at or near the
estate. Following Washington’s instructions, funds were used to feed and clothe the
young, aged, and sickly slaves until the early 1830s.

816

r! The Legend

Even though he had received his freedom and an annuity under Washington’s
will, Billy Lee stayed on at Mount Vernon, residing in his own house, working as a
shoemaker, and emerging as something of a local tourist attraction. He remained
a voluble raconteur about the war and its generals, and when one British baronet
stopped by, Lee inquired “very earnestly after Lord Cornwallis.”50 Despite his apparent drinking problem, Lee managed to survive until 1810.
Politically, Martha had become a vocal Federalist and kept up her husband’s antipathy to Thomas Jefferson. Even as he sat in the Senate chamber in a chair cloaked
in black, Jefferson nursed private grievances against Washington and stayed away
from the memorial service for him in December 1799, an action that may have embittered Martha. In private, Jefferson predicted a “resuscitation” of the “republican
spirit” because the Federalists would no longer be able to hide behind Washington’s
stature and popularity.51
In early January 1801 Jefferson made a pilgrimage to Mount Vernon to see Martha, a visit with an unspoken political agenda. A few weeks earlier it had become
clear in the presidential race that Aaron Burr would tie him in the Electoral College,
throwing the race into a House of Representatives dominated by Federalists. Jefferson may have thought a well-publicized trip to Mount Vernon would curry favor
with Federalist congressmen. If he did, he got precious little thanks from Martha,
who fully shared her husband’s cynicism about Jefferson. A friend recalled, “She
assured a party of gentlemen, of which I was one . . . that next to the loss of her husband, [the visit] was the most painful occurrence of her life. He must have known,
she observed, that we then had the evidence of [Jefferson’s] perﬁdy in the house.”52
Taking the high road in his ﬁrst inaugural address, President Jefferson named
Washington as “our ﬁrst and greatest revolutionary character, whose preeminent
services had entitled him to the ﬁrst place in his country’s love.”53 Martha Washington was not assuaged. “Her remarks were frequently pointed and sometimes very
sarcastic on the new order of things and the present administration,” wrote Manasseh Cutler. “She spoke of the election of Mr. Jefferson, whom she considered as
one of the most detestable of mankind, as the greatest misfortune our country has
ever experienced. Her unfriendly feelings toward him were naturally to be expected
from the abuse he offered to Gen. Washington while living, and to his memory
since his decease.”54
For many years Martha had been plagued by a stomach disorder termed bilious
fever, which recurred in early May 1802. This time, despite the careful ministrations
of Dr. Craik, it proved fatal. On May 22, 1802, Martha Washington breathed her last,
just short of her seventy-ﬁrst birthday. She died with courage and an uncomplaining acceptance of her fate, which had been her trademarks since her husband rode
off to Cambridge to take command of the Continental Army in June 1775, trans-

Homecoming r! 81 7

forming her life forever. “Fortitude and resignation were displayed throughout,”
wrote a relative, who said that Martha had called for a clergyman to administer
the sacrament. “She met death as a relief from the inﬁrmities and melancholy of
old age.”55 In accordance with her wishes, her cofﬁn was placed in the dim, gloomy
vault next to the illustrious husband whose fortunes she had so intimately shared
and whose success she had so conspicuously aided. Finally, after many detours,
many wanderings, and many triumphs, George and Martha Washington had come
home to rest at Mount Vernon for good.

Acknowledgments

Any biographer of George Washington must stand in awe of the scholarly feat accomplished
by the eminent team of editors at the Papers of George Washington project, which operates
out of the University of Virginia at Charlottesville. By gathering 130,000 relevant documents
from around the globe, they have produced a modern edition of Washington’s papers that
eclipses the far more modest edition published by John C. Fitzpatrick back in the 1930s and
early 1940s. Whereas Fitzpatrick, in his thirty-nine volumes, limited himself to letters written
by Washington, the new edition—sixty volumes of letters and diaries and still counting—
includes letters written to him as well as excerpts from contemporary letters, diaries, and
newspapers. Expert commentary appears at every step along the way. Strange as it may seem,
George Washington’s life has now been so minutely documented that we know far more
about him than did his own friends, family, and contemporaries.
I am grateful to the community of Washington scholars for being receptive to a biography written by someone outside their professional ranks. Theodore J. Crackel, editor in chief
of the Washington papers, was kind enough to vet the early chapters of the book and give me
a sneak preview of two forthcoming volumes. Two of the best Washington scholars agreed
to give the manuscript a sharp-eyed and tough-minded critique. Peter R. Henriques, author
of Realistic Visionary: A Portrait of George Washington and emeritus professor of history at
George Mason University, gave early encouragement to the book and closely reviewed the
chapters dealing with Washington’s pre– and post–Revolutionary War years. Edward G. Lengel, senior editor of the Washington papers and author of General George Washington, generously scrutinized the many chapters dealing with the Revolutionary War and gave copious
commentary. Caroline Weber, a biographer of Marie-Antoinette and a professor of French
and comparative literature at Columbia University, trained her erudite eye on the sections
dealing with Washington and the French Revolution. All four scholars rescued me from errors of fact and interpretation and added subtlety and shading to the book. I thank them all
sincerely. Any remaining errors are my sole responsibility.
Starting with president James C. Rees, the superb staff at Mount Vernon has been exemplary in providing help for the book. I was lucky to beneﬁt from the new visitors’ center and

82 0

r! Acknowledgments

museum that opened as I labored. Stephen McLeod handled the arrangements for my visit
to Mount Vernon, and John Marshall set up an early tour of the Mansion House before the
crowds started piling in for the day. Mary V. Thompson, a major resource for any Washington
scholar, enhanced my understanding of Washington’s views on religion, slavery, and many
other central issues. Carol Borchert Cadou lent welcome expertise on the hitherto-neglected
subjects of Washington’s furnishings and objets d’art. Dawn Bonner helped with illustrative
material for the book. I was especially pleased to tour the grounds with J. Dean Norton, who
expounded on Washington’s talents as a gardener, and Dennis Pogue, who unlocked the
mysteries of the distillery, gristmill, and pioneer farm. Gay Gaines, the former head of the
Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association, was a warm early supporter of this project.
In trying to retrace Washington’s footsteps at Revolutionary War battleﬁelds, I encountered many informative guides, curators, and park rangers. At Washington Crossing Historic
Park on the Pennsylvania side of the Delaware River, and at Washington Crossing State Park
on the New Jersey side, I proﬁted from discussions with Jennifer April and W. Clay Craighead. At Cliveden, the former home of Benjamin Chew, Fred Achenbach gave me a superb
tour of the house and a knowledgeable review of the Battle of Germantown. I enjoyed a long,
stimulating chat with Jim Raleigh, president of the Friends of the Monmouth Battleﬁeld,
about the conﬂict fought at that lovely spot. The enthusiastic staff at the Old Barracks Museum in Trenton made Washington’s two battles there come alive. At Yorktown, Tim Gorde
gave a ﬁne overview of the historic victory. Special thanks as well to two valued friends who
accompanied me on my research journeys: Bruce McCall (to Princeton and Valley Forge)
and Arthur Hirsch (Washington Crossing and Monmouth).
George Washington slept, ate, and worked at so many places that I was kept busy moving
up and down the eastern seaboard. At Colonial Williamsburg, I enjoyed the intelligent commentary of Lisa Epton, Joe Spruill, Louise Lareau, and Jared Lorio. I am especially grateful to
Linda Baumgarten, curator for textiles and costumes there, who educated me on eighteenthcentury dress and shed light on Washington’s height, hair, and clothing. At Ferry Farm in
Fredericksburg, Linda Westerman and Noelle Hall patiently answered my many questions.
I proﬁted greatly from a talk with Paul M. Nasca, staff archaeologist for the George Washington Foundation, who recounted the exciting discovery of the archaeological remains of
Washington’s boyhood home and how it has transformed our understanding of his boyhood. At Kenmore Plantation, the residence of Betty and Fielding Lewis, Jane Huffman gave
a most informative tour. I thank Lindsey Hobbs and Carla Wing for their hospitable reception at the Mary Washington House.
At the Powel House in Philadelphia, Kathie Dunn helped to re-create the world of Washington’s social life with Elizabeth Willing Powel. David W. Maxey was especially helpful in
deepening my understanding of that remarkable woman. In Washington, Ellen McCallister
Clark, library director at the Society of the Cincinnati, gave me the beneﬁt of her prodigious
knowledge of Washington’s library. In New York, Steve Laise of the National Park Service
helped to unearth some Washington materials still in storage. Michael Amato and Michael
Callahan provided guidance at Federal Hall National Memorial, the site of Washington’s ﬁrst
inauguration. At the Morgan Library and Museum, curator Jennifer Tonkovich not only

Acknowledgments r! 821

allowed me to examine the Houdon life mask of Washington but helped me to ponder its
mysteries. Suzanne Prabucki, the curator at the Fraunces Tavern Museum, supplied information about Washington’s famous farewell to his ofﬁcers and biographical information about
Sam Fraunces. At the New-York Historical Society, curator Kathleen Hulser gave me a splendid backstage tour of Washington paintings and memorabilia, arranged by society president
Louise Mirrer. Pam Schaﬂer and Sandra Tenholm provided me with a notebook of highlights
from the George Washington and Henry Knox Collection, part of the Gilder-Lehrman Collection housed at the society. Thanks also to the staff at the Morris Jumel mansion in upper
Manhattan, one of Washington’s wartime residences. In Boston, Anita Israel conducted me
on a private tour of the Vassall house, now the Longfellow National Historic Site, which was
Washington’s principal residence during the siege of Boston. Edward A. Smyk, the Passaic
County historian, let me see a draft of his paper on the Dey Mansion in Wayne Township,
New Jersey. Andrew Connell, a history teacher at the Appleby Grammar School in England,
supplied invaluable information about the Washington’s family’s association with that
school. Jeffrey H. Schwartz, a physical anthropologist at the University of Pittsburgh who
re-created Washington’s appearance for Mount Vernon, gave helpful hints for the book. Dick
Scully, a Washington family descendant, kindly answered questions for me.
Many librarians and archivists contributed to the creation of this book. At the Massachusetts Historical Society, Peter Drummey and Stephen T. Riley led me through relevant
collections, and I was especially pleased to handle there Washington’s historic Newburgh
address to his ofﬁcers. At the Boston Athenaeum, Stanley Ellis Cushing and Mary Warnement provided guidance to a collection rich in nineteenth-century printed matter about
Washington. Diane Windham Shaw at the Skillman Library at Lafayette College gave me a
personal tour of an exhibition on the Marquis de Lafayette and helped with material about
him. At the New York Public Library, Thomas Lannon offered direction to the Washington
Irving materials. Bruce Kirby at the Library of Congress in Washington steered me through
John Marshall’s papers related to his early Washington biography. Special thanks to John
Overholt at the Houghton Library at Harvard University, where I examined ﬁrsthand George
Washington’s personal copy of James Monroe’s A View of the Conduct of the Executive . . . ,
complete with his venomous marginal comments. At the Earl Gregg Swem Library at the
College of William and Mary, Anne Johnson answered queries about special collections. Nelson D. Lankford, editor of the Virginia Magazine of History and Biography, rushed into my
hands a copy of the magazine’s excellent bicentennial issue on George Washington.
Washington’s medical and dental history offered an especially fertile ﬁeld for investigation. I was delighted to encounter dentist Dr. John Tosi, who tutored me in the ﬁne points
of eighteenth-century dentistry and described the torments of Washington’s dentures. At
the New York Academy of Medicine Library, Arlene Shaner gave me access to Washington’s
dentures, shepherded me through esoteric dental journals, and showed me, encased in a glass
locket, Washington’s last remaining tooth. My brother, Dr. Bart Chernow, and good friend
Dr. Jerome Groopman answered numerous medical queries during the research.
Struck by recurrent mentions of Washington’s trembling hands, I decided to explore
the possibility that he suffered from Parkinson’s disease, a disorder that was not named and

822

r! Acknowledgments

identiﬁed until after his death. I consulted three renowned neurologists, supplied them with
a comprehensive medical history of Washington, and asked them to diagnose his condition. While they agreed that Washington suffered from a movement disorder, there was no
general agreement as to what it was. One expert opted for Parkinson’s disease, a second for
essential tremor, and a third for enhanced physiological tremor. In the absence of a medical
consensus, I omitted the issue from the text of the book, but I was vastly impressed by the
informed opinions submitted by the three experts: Dr. Stanley Fahn, professor of neurology
at the Columbia University Medical Center; Dr. Daniel Tarsy, professor of neurology at the
Harvard Medical School; and Dr. Carlos Singer, professor of neurology at the Leonard M.
Miller School of Medicine at the University of Miami. It turned out to be a fascinating, if
inconclusive, exercise, and I am indebted to the neurologists in question for their generous
cooperation.
Late in the writing of this book, I suffered a severe orthopedic injury that nearly derailed
the project. For that reason, I would like to extend my warmest thanks to Dr. Jonathan Deland at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York, who is a veritable wizard at repairing
feet and ankles. During this period, when I had to vacate my brownstone, Margo Lion and
Helen and Roger Lowenstein extended welcome asylum that enabled me to go on researching the book. This was friendship of a high and special order.
As I have noted in previous acknowledgments, I am singularly blessed in my agent, Melanie Jackson, and my editor, Ann Godoff of The Penguin Press. With deep faith in this project,
both women provided consistently intelligent commentary and as much encouragement as
any author could possibly want. Their unfailing warmth, immense integrity, and personal
kindness to me have made my long-standing business and literary collaboration with them
a pure joy. Their respective assistants, Caitlin McKenna and Lindsay Whalen, steadily helped
to move this project along. I have also appreciated the fantastic support of the entire team at
The Penguin Press, especially Tracy Locke and Sarah Hutson, who have always been models
of cheerful efﬁciency. Janet Biehl did a ﬁne, judicious copyedit of the manuscript under the
always vigilant guidance of Bruce Giffords. In the early stages of this book, I proﬁted from
the excellent research assistance of Kate Daloz, who tracked down many interesting books
and articles and then helped to assemble the picture section of the work.
Finally, I must acknowledge the inexpressible debt that I owe to my late wife, Valerie
Chernow, who died during the composition of this work. She encouraged me to undertake
the project and discussed it with me nightly until the end. For more than twenty-seven years,
Valerie was my muse, my in-house editor, my delightful conﬁdante. To this beautiful human
being, I owe simply everything.

Notes

Abbreviations
Diaries. Donald Jackson and Dorothy Twohig, eds. The Diaries of George Washington, 6 vols. Charlottesville, Va., 1976–79.
DiariesA. Dorothy Twohig, ed. George Washington’s Diaries: An Abridgment. Charlottesville, Va., 1999.
MTV Library of the Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association, Mount Vernon, Va.
PWC. W. W. Abbot, Dorothy Twohig, and Philander D. Chase, eds. The Papers of George Washington: Colonial Series, 10
vols. Charlottesville, Va., 1983–95.
PWCF. W. W. Abbot and Dorothy Twohig, eds. The Papers of George Washington: Confederation Series, 6 vols. Charlottesville, Va., 1992–97.
PWP. W. W. Abbot, Dorothy Twohig, Philander D. Chase, David R. Hoth, Christine Sternberg Patrick, and Theodore J.
Crackel, eds. The Papers of George Washington: Presidential Series, 15 vols. Charlottesville, Va., 1987–.
PWR. W. W. Abbot, Dorothy Twohig, Philander D. Chase, Edward G. Lengel, Theodore J. Crackel, and David R. Hoth, eds.
The Papers of George Washington: Revolutionary War Series, 18 vols. Charlottesville, Va., 1985–.
PWRT. W. W. Abbot and Dorothy Twohig, eds. The Papers of George Washington: Retirement Series, 4 vols. Charlottesville,
Va., 1998–99.
WWF. John C. Fitzpatrick, ed. The Writings of George Washington, 39 vols. Washington, D.C., 1931–44.
WWR. John Rhodehamel, ed. George Washington, Writings. New York, 1997.

Prelude: The Portrait Artist
1 . Barratt and Miles, Gilbert Stuart, 78–79.
2 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 181.
3 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 89.
4 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 58.
5 . Barratt and Miles, Gilbert Stuart, 137.
6 . Jefferson, Writings, 1319.
7. Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 98.
8 . Custis, Recollections and Private Memoirs of Washington,
418.
9 . Higginbotham, George Washington Reconsidered, 282.
Chapter One: A Short-Lived Family
1 . PWP, 10:333.
2 . Higginbotham, George Washington Reconsidered, 20.
3 . Anderson, George Washington Remembers, 31.
4 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 31.
5 . Ibid., 34.
6 . Wills, Cincinnatus, 68.
7. Freeman, George Washington, 1:58.
8 . Ibid., 1:69.
9 . PWCF, 2:175. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette,
December 8, 1784.
1 0 . Freeman, George Washington, 1:193.
1 1 . Conkling, Memoirs of Mother and Wife of Washington, 22.
1 2 . Hervey, Memory of Washington, 45.
13 . Felder, Fielding Lewis and Washington Family, 34.
1 4 . Ramsay, Life of George Washington, 3.
15 . PWP, 7:32. Letter to George Steptoe Washington,
December 5, 1790.

1 6 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 137.
17. Abbot, “Uncommon Awareness.”
1 8 . WWF, 35:341. Letter to George Washington Parke
Custis, December 19, 1796.
1 9 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 188.
2 0 . WWR, 3. “Rules of Civility,” 1747.
2 1 . Ibid., 10.
2 2 . Ibid., 5.
2 3 . Ibid., 6.
2 4 . Sayen, “George Washington’s ‘Unmannerly’ Behavior.”
2 5 . WWF, 35:295. Letter to George Washington Parke
Custis, November 28, 1796.
2 6 . PWRT, 1:169. Letter to George Washington Parke
Custis, June 4, 1797.
Chapter Two: Fortune’s Favorite
1 . PWRT, 4:507.
2 . Freeman, George Washington, 1:76–77.
3 . WWF, 35:329–30. Letter to Sir John Sinclair, December
11, 1796.
4 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:30.
5 . PWC, 1:289–90. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
May 28, 1755.
6 . Ibid., 4:119. Letter from William Fairfax, March 22,
1757.
7. WWR, 720. Letter to George Steptoe Washington,
March 23, 1789.
8 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:27.
9 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 43–44.
1 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:30.

82 4

r! Notes

1 1 . PWCF, 5:515. “Comments on David Humphreys’
Biography of George Washington.”
1 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:30.
13 . Freeman, George Washington, 1:195.
1 4 . Ibid., 1:199.
15 . PWCF, 6:423. Letter to James Craik, August 4, 1788.
1 6 . WWR, 142. Letter to Jonathan Boucher, July 9, 1771.
17. Ibid., 11. “A Journal of My Journey over the
Mountains,” March 15, 1747/8.
1 8 . Ibid., 13. “A Journal of My Journey over the
Mountains,” March 23, 1747/8.
1 9 . Ibid., 14. “A Journal of My Journey over the
Mountains,” April 4, 1747/8.
2 0 . PWC, 1:44. Letter to Richard [no last name], ca. 1749–50.
2 1 . WWR, 14. “A Journal of My Journey over the
Mountains,” April 3, 1747/8.
2 2 . Lengel, General George Washington, 14.
2 3 . PWC, 1:39.
2 4 . Ibid., 1:45–46. Memorandum, ca. 1749–50.
2 5 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 16.
2 6 . Felder, Fielding Lewis and Washington Family, 33.
2 7. PWC, 1:41. Letter to Robin [no last name], ca. 1749–50.
2 8 . Ibid., 1:47. “Poetry,” ca. 1749–50.
2 9 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 18.
3 0 . Cunliffe, George Washington, 42.
3 1 . PWC, 1:44. Letter to Richard, ca. 1749–50
3 2 . DiariesA, xvi.
3 3 . PWC, 1:6. Letter to Lawrence Washington, May 5, 1749.
3 4 . Ibid., 1:38. Letter to Ann Fairfax Washington, ca.
September–November 1749.
3 5 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:47.
3 6 . DiariesA, 12. Entry for November 5, 1751.
3 7. Lengel, General George Washington, 16.
3 8 . Freeman, George Washington, 1:250.
3 9 . DiariesA, 14. Entry for December 12, 1751.
4 0 . Ibid., 15. Entry for December 22, 1751.
4 1 . Ibid., 14. Entry for November 17, 1751.
4 2 . Ibid.
43 . Freeman, George Washington, 1:263.
4 4 . Ibid., 1:51.
4 5 . PWC, 1:49. Letter to William Fauntleroy, May 20, 1752.
4 6 . Lengel, General George Washington, 16.
47. Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 19.
4 8 . WWR, 1113.
4 9 . PWC, 1:50. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, June 10, 1752.
5 0 . PWRT, 3:188. Letter to Maryland Masons, November
8, 1798.
5 1 . PWP, 12:76. Letter to the Massachusetts Masons,
January 1793.
Chapter Three: Wilderness Mission
1 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 212.
2 . PWC, 1:199. Letter from Allan Macrae, September 3,
1754.
3 . Freeman, George Washington, 3:6.
4 . Lengel, General George Washington, 8.
5 . PWC, 1:277. Letter to John Augustine Washington, May
14, 1755.
6 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 65–66.
7. Anderson, George Washington Remembers, 71.
8 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 18.
9 . PWC, 1:57.
1 0 . Ibid., 1:352. Letter to Augustine Washington, August
2, 1755.

1 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:55.
1 2 . PWC, 2:151. Letter from Robert Hunter Morris,
October 31, 1755.
13 . PWCF, 5:516. “Comments on David Humphreys’
Biography of George Washington.”
1 4 . PWC, 1:57.
15 . WWR, 17. “Journey to the French Commandant,” 1753.
1 6 . Ibid., 18.
17. Ibid.
1 8 . Lengel, General George Washington, 20.
1 9 . PWC, 5:117. Letter to John Stanwix, April 10, 1758.
2 0 . WWR, 19. “Journey to the French Commandant,” 1753.
2 1 . Lengel, General George Washington, 23.
2 2 . PWCF, 5:516. “Comments on David Humphreys’
Biography of George Washington.”
2 3 . WWR, 22. “Journey to the French Commandant,” 1753.
2 4 . Ibid., 25.
2 5 . Ibid., 26.
2 6 . Ibid., 28.
2 7. Flexner, George Washington, 1:68.
2 8 . Ibid., 69.
2 9 . WWR, 30. “Journey to the French Commandant,”
1753.
3 0 . Ibid., 32.
3 1 . Ibid.
3 2 . Freeman, George Washington, 1:320.
3 3 . Lengel, General George Washington, 28.
3 4 . WWR, 33. “Journey to the French Commandant,” 1753.
3 5 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:76.
3 6 . WWR, 34. “Journey to the French Commandant,” 1753.
3 7. DiariesA, 32.
3 8 . PWC, 1:352. Letter to Augustine Washington, August
2, 1755.
3 9 . WWR, 35. Letter to Richard Corbin, January 28, 1754.
Chapter Four: Bloodbath
1 . DiariesA, 38.
2 . PWC, 1:72, Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, March 7, 1754.
3 . Ibid.
4 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:81.
5 . Ibid., 1:82.
6 . Lengel, General George Washington, 33.
7. Freeman, George Washington, 1:354.
8 . PWC, 1:86. Letter to Governor Horatio Sharpe, April
24, 1754.
9 . WWR, 39. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, May 18, 1754.
1 0 . DiariesA, 45.
1 1 . Ibid., 47.
1 2 . Lengel, General George Washington, 35.
13 . DiariesA, 49–50.
1 4 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:89.
15 . DiariesA, 49.
1 6 . WWR, 42. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, May 29, 1754.
17. Ibid., 44.
1 8 . Ibid., 48. Letter to John Augustine Washington, May
31, 1754.
1 9 . Lengel, General George Washington, 39.
2 0 . PWC, 1:117. Letter to Joshua Fry, May 29, 1754.
2 1 . Ibid., 1:119. Letter from Robert Dinwiddie, June 1, 1754.
2 2 . Ibid., 1:114–15.
2 3 . Leibiger, “ ‘To Judge of Washington’s Conduct.’ ”
2 4 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 6.
2 5 . PWC, 1:129–30. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, June 10,
1754.

Notes r! 825
2 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:100.
2 7. Anderson, George Washington Remembers, 37.
2 8 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:100.
2 9 . PWCF, 5:517. “Comments on David Humphreys’
Biography of George Washington.”
3 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:101.
3 1 . PWCF, 5:518. “Comments on David Humphreys’
Biography of George Washington.”
3 2 . Ibid.
3 3 . Ibid.
3 4 . PWC, 1:164.
3 5 . Ibid., 1:170.
3 6 . Ibid., 1:168.
3 7. Ibid., 1:169–70.
3 8 . Ibid., 1:160.
3 9 . Lengel, General George Washington, 46.
4 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:107.
4 1 . Lengel, General George Washington, 48.
4 2 . PWC, 1:136. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, June 10, 1754.
43 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 320.
4 4 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:5.
4 5 . Freeman, George Washington, 1:416.
4 6 . Lengel, General George Washington, 49.
47. Freeman, George Washington, 1:420.
4 8 . Ibid., 1:432.
4 9 . PWC, 1:216. Letter from Horatio Sharpe, October 1, 1754.
5 0 . Ibid., 1:226. Letter to William Fitzhugh, November
15, 1754.
5 1 . Ibid.
5 2 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 26.
Chapter Five: Shades of Death
1 . PWC, 6:381.
2 . Ibid., 1:243. Letter to Robert Orme, March 15, 1755.
3 . Ibid., 1:246.
4 . Ibid., 1:278. Letter to John Augustine Washington, May
14, 1755.
5 . Ibid., 1:255. Letter to John Robinson, April 20, 1755.
6 . Ibid., 1:246. Letter to Robert Orme, April 2, 1755.
7. Ibid., 1:278. Letter to John Augustine Washington, May
14, 1755.
8 . PWCF, 5:522. “Comments on David Humphreys’
Biography of George Washington.”
9 . PWC, 2:11.
1 0 . Ibid., 1:299. Letter to William Fairfax, June 7, 1755.
1 1 . Isaacson, Benjamin Franklin, 166.
1 2 . PWC, 1:268. Letter to Mary Ball Washington, May 6,
1755.
13 . Ibid.
1 4 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 558.
15 . PWC, 1:304. Letter to Mary Ball Washington, June 7,
1755.
1 6 . Ibid., 1:261. Letter to Sarah Cary Fairfax, April 30, 1755.
17. Ibid., 1:265. Letter to Thomas, Lord Fairfax, May 6,
1755.
1 8 . WWR, 54. Letter to Sarah Cary Fairfax, June 7, 1755.
1 9 . Ibid., 53. Letter to John Augustine Washington, May
28, 1755.
2 0 . PWC, 1:319. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
June 28–July 2, 1755.
2 1 . Lengel, General George Washington, 55.
2 2 . Freeman, George Washington, 2:51.
2 3 . WWR, 54. Letter to John Augustine Washington, June
28, 1755.

2 4 . Cunliffe, George Washington, 49.
2 5 . PWCF, 5:520. “Comments on David Humphreys’
Biography of George Washington.”
2 6 . PWC, 1:332.
2 7. PWCF, 5:520–21. “Comments on David Humphreys’
Biography of George Washington. ”
2 8 . Marshall, Life of George Washington, 10.
2 9 . WWR, 58. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, July 18, 1755.
3 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:129.
3 1 . PWCF, 5:522. “Comments on David Humphreys’
Biography of George Washington.”
3 2 . PWC, 1:340. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, July 18, 1755.
First draft.
3 3 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 64.
3 4 . Freeman, George Washington, 2:82.
3 5 . Ibid.
3 6 . PWCF, 5:522. “Comments on David Humphreys’
Biography of George Washington.”
3 7. PWC, 3:181.
3 8 . Cunliffe, George Washington, 49.
3 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:134.
4 0 . PWC, 1:346. Letter from Sarah Cary Fairfax, Ann
Spearing, and Elizabeth Dent, July 26, 1755.
4 1 . Ibid., 1:343. Letter to John Augustine Washington, July
18, 1755. First draft.
4 2 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 30.
43 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 83.
4 4 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 29.
Chapter Six: The Soul of an Army
1 . PWC, 1:359. Letter to Mary Ball Washington, August
14, 1755.
2 . Ibid., 3:416. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, September
23, 1756.
3 . Ibid., 2:208. Letter to Richard Washington, December
6, 1755.
4 . WWR, 61. “General Orders,” October 6, 1755.
5 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 64.
6 . WWR, 64. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, October 14, 1755.
7. PWC, 2:176. Letter to Denis McCarty, November 22,
1755.
8 . Ibid., 2:102. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, October 11,
1755.
9 . Morgan, Genius of George Washington, 29.
1 0 . PWC, 3:171. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, May 23, 1756.
1 1 . Ibid., 4:406. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, September
17, 1757.
1 2 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 15.
13 . PWC, 3:417. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, September
23, 1756.
1 4 . Ibid., 5:130. Letter to John Blair, April 17, 1758.
15 . PWR, 8:124. Letter to John Parke Custis, January 22,
1777.
1 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:159.
17. Marshall, “National Treasure,” New Yorker, May 23,
2005.
1 8 . PWCF, 5:523. “Comments on David Humphreys’
Biography of George Washington.”
1 9 . PWC, 2:226. Letter from Adam Stephen, December
23, 1755.
2 0 . Ibid., 6:439. Letter from Andrew Burnaby, June 23,
1760.
2 1 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 91.
2 2 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 37.

82 6

r! Notes

2 3 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:148.
2 4 . PWC, 2:333. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, April 7, 1756.
2 5 . Ibid., 2:345. Letter to Robert Hunter Morris, April 9,
1756.
2 6 . Ibid., 3:33–34. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, April 22,
1756.
2 7. Flexner, George Washington, 1:154.
2 8 . WWR, 73. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, April 18, 1756.
2 9 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 28.
3 0 . PWC, 3:57. Letter from William Fairfax, April 27, 1756.
3 1 . Ibid., 3:354. “Proclamation.”
3 2 . Ibid., 3:294. Letter to John Campbell, Earl of
Loudoun, July 25, 1756.
3 3 . Ibid., 4:86. Letter to the Earl of Loudoun, January 10,
1757.
3 4 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 42.
3 5 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 11.
3 6 . PWC, 4:89. Letter to the Earl of Loudoun, January
10, 1757.
3 7. Higginbotham, George Washington Reconsidered, 59.
3 8 . PWC, 4:89. Letter to the Earl of Loudoun, January
10, 1757.
3 9 . Ibid., 4:90.
4 0 . WWR, 86. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, March 10, 1757.
4 1 . PWC, 4:132. Letter to Richard Washington, April 15,
1757.
4 2 . Ibid., 4:163. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, May 24, 1757.
43 . Anderson, “Hinge of the Revolution.”
4 4 . PWC, 4:306. Letter to John Stanwix, July 15, 1757.
4 5 . Ibid., 4:360. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, August 3,
1757.
4 6 . Ibid., 4:199. Letter to John Robinson, June 10, 1757.
47. Ibid., 4:422. Letter from Robert Dinwiddie, September
24, 1757.
4 8 . Ibid., 5:3. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, October 5, 1757.
4 9 . Ibid., 5:25. Letter to Robert Dinwiddie, October 24,
1757.
5 0 . Ibid., 5:63.
5 1 . Ibid., 5:64. Letter from James Craik, November 25,
1757.
5 2 . Ibid., 5:56. Letter to Sarah Cary Fairfax, November
15, 1757.
5 3 . Ibid., 5:92. Letter from Robert Carter Nicholas,
February 6, 1758.
5 4 . Ibid., 5:102. Letter to John Stanwix, March 4, 1758.
5 5 . Ibid.
Chapter Seven: A Votary to Love
1 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 29.
2 . Ibid.
3 . Ibid.
4 . PWC, 5:447. Letter from Humphrey Knight, September
2, 1758.
5 . Brady, Martha Washington, 55.
6 . PWC, 5:112. Letter to Richard Washington, April 5, 1758.
7. Freeman, Washington, 2:302.
8 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 254.
9 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 88.
1 0 . MTV. “Early Descriptions Ante 1800.” Nicholas
Crosswell journal, 1774–77.
1 1 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 101.
1 2 . PWRT, 2:239.
13 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 84.
1 4 . Bryan, First Lady of Liberty, 239; Wiencek, ibid., 85.

15 . Custis, Recollections and Private Memoirs of
Washington, 509.
1 6 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 90.
17. Brady, Martha Washington, 30.
1 8 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 75.
1 9 . Ibid., 73.
2 0 . Ibid.
2 1 . Ibid., 76.
2 2 . PWC, 6:10. Letter to Sarah Cary Fairfax, September
12, 1758.
2 3 . Ibid., 6:11.
2 4 . Ibid.
2 5 . Ibid., 6:41. Letter to Sarah Cary Fairfax, September
25, 1758.
2 6 . WWR, 901–2.
Chapter Eight: Darling of a Grateful Country
1 . Higginbotham, George Washington Reconsidered, 54.
2 . PWC, 5:117.
3 . Lengel, General George Washington, 70.
4 . PWC, 5:258. Letter to Henry Bouquet, July 3, 1758. PWC,
5:282. Letter to Henry Bouquet, July 13, 1758.
5 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 33.
6 . PWC, 5:271. Letter from James Wood, July 7, 1758.
7. Ibid., 5:305–6. Letter from Robert Rutherford, July 20,
1758.
8 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:211.
9 . PWC, 5:330. Letter from Robert Rutherford, July 26,
1758.
1 0 . Ibid., 5:349. Letter to James Wood, ca. July 28, 1758.
1 1 . Ibid.
1 2 . WWR, 96. Letter to Francis Halkett, August 2, 1758.
13 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 13.
1 4 . Lengel, General George Washington, 71.
15 . PWC, 5:424. Letter to Henry Bouquet, August 28, 1758.
1 6 . Ibid., 5:433. Letter to John Robinson, September 1,
1758.
17. Flexner, George Washington, 1:215.
1 8 . PWC, 7:205. Letter to Robert Stewart, April 27, 1763.
1 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:220.
2 0 . PWCF, 5:525. “Comments on David Humphreys’
Biography of George Washington.”
2 1 . PWC, 6:177. Letter from Robert Stewart, December
31, 1758.
2 2 . Ibid.
2 3 . Ibid., 6:179. “Address from the Ofﬁcers of the Virginia
Regiment,” December 31, 1758.
2 4 . PWCF, 5:525. “Comments on David Humphreys’
Biography of George Washington.”
2 5 . PWC, 6:186. “To the Ofﬁcers of the Virginia
Regiment,” January 10, 1759.
2 6 . Ibid., 6:187.
Chapter Nine: The Man of Mode
1 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 244.
2 . PWC, 6:283ff.
3 . Brady, Martha Washington, 70.
4 . DiariesA, 65. Diary entry for January 16, 1760.
5 . Ibid., 58.
6 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 12.
7. PWC, 6:359. Letter to Richard Washington, September
20, 1759.
8 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 13.
9 . Freeman, George Washington, 3:7.

Notes r! 827
1 0 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 66.
1 1 . WWR, 417. Letter to John Parke Custis, February 28,
1781.
1 2 . PWC, 6:200. Letter to John Alton, April 5, 1759.
13 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 129.
1 4 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 41.
15 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 83.
1 6 . Thompson, Statements Regarding the Physical
Appearance, 74.
17. Irving, Life of George Washington, 615.
1 8 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 147.
1 9 . Thompson, Memorandum for the Martha Washington
Anniversary Committee, 24.
2 0 . PWR, 1:3–4. Letter to Martha Washington, June 18, 1775.
2 1 . WWR, 881. Letter to Elizabeth Parke Custis, September
14, 1794.
2 2 . MTV. “Early Descriptions Ante 1800.” Lieutenant
John Enys visit to Mount Vernon, February 12, 1788.
2 3 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:519.
2 4 . Cunliffe, George Washington, 124.
2 5 . WWR, 597. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, May
10, 1786.
2 6 . Ibid., 599. Letter to William Fitzhugh, May 15, 1786.
2 7. Ibid., 570. Letter to William Gordon, December 20,
1784.
2 8 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:269.
2 9 . WWR, 706. “Draft of First Inaugural,” ca. January 1789.
3 0 . Furstenberg, In the Name of the Father, 75.
3 1 . PWC, 6:315. Letter to Robert Cary & Co., May 1, 1759.
3 2 . Ibid., 6:317. “Enclosure Invoice to Robert Cary & Co.,”
May 1, 1759.
3 3 . Ibid., 6:453. Letter to Richard Washington, August
10, 1760.
3 4 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 212.
3 5 . Ibid.
3 6 . PWC, 6:375. Letter to Robert Cary & Co., November
30, 1759.
3 7. Ibid., 6:459. Undated typescript of a letter to an
unidentiﬁed tailor.
3 8 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 238.
3 9 . Hague, William Pitt the Younger, 4.
4 0 . PWC, 6:359. Letter to Richard Washington, September
20, 1759.
4 1 . DiariesA, 90.
4 2 . PWC, 6:449. Letter to Robert Cary & Co., August 10,
1760.
43 . Ibid., 6:459–60. Letter to Robert Cary & Co.,
September 28, 1760.
4 4 . Wood, “The Shopper’s Revolution.”
4 5 . WWR, 109. Letter to Robert Stewart, April 27, 1763.
4 6 . Ibid., 111. Letter to Robert Cary & Co., August 10, 1764.
47. Ibid., 113–14. Letter to Robert Cary & Co., September
20, 1765.
4 8 . PWRT, 1:248. Letter to Samuel Washington, July 12,
1797.
Chapter Ten: A Certain Species of Property
1 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:274.
2 . PWC, 7:140. Letter to Robert Cary & Co., June 20, 1762.
3 . Ibid., 7:385. Letter to Burwell Bassett, August 2, 1765.
4 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 45.
5 . PWC, 9:70. Letter to Daniel Jenifer Adams, July 20, 1772.
6 . Ibid., 8:256. Letter to Hector Ross, October 9, 1769.
7. Ibid., 8:3. Letter to John Posey, June 24, 1767.

8 . WWR, 158. Letter to Bryan Fairfax, August 24, 1774.
9 . DiariesA, 83. Diary entry for May 7, 1760.
1 0 . PWC, 7:148. “Agreement with Nelson Kelly,”
September 1, 1762.
1 1 . PWP, 11:229. Letter to Anthony Whitting, October 14,
1792.
1 2 . WWF, 33:242. Letter to William Pearce, January 12,
1794.
13 . Thompson, “ ‘They Appear to Live Comfortable
Together.’”
1 4 . Higginbotham, George Washington Reconsidered, 117.
15 . Thompson, “Lives of Enslaved Workers on
Washington’s Outlying Farms.”
1 6 . Adams, Life and Writings of Jared Sparks, 2:28.
17. Thompson, Statements Regarding the Physical
Appearance, 56.
1 8 . PWP, 13:225. “Circular to William Stuart, Hiland Crow,
and Henry McCoy,” July 14, 1793.
1 9 . Ibid., 12:524. Letter to Anthony Whitting, May 5, 1793.
2 0 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 68.
2 1 . Brady, George Washington’s Beautiful Nelly, 134.
2 2 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 315.
2 3 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 181.
2 4 . Massachusetts Historical Society, Timothy Pickering
Papers, Reel 52, p. 54.
2 5 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 150.
2 6 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 23.
2 7. PWP, 1:223. Letter to John Fairfax, January 1, 1789.
2 8 . WWF, 33:275. Letter to William Pearce, February 22,
1794.
2 9 . PWP, 9:439.
3 0 . DiariesA, 69–70. Diary entry for February 5, 1760.
3 1 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 77.
3 2 . PWP, 12:634. Letter to Anthony Whitting, May 26, 1793.
3 3 . Thompson, “ ‘The Only Unavoidable Subject of
Regret.’ ”
3 4 . PWC, 8:521.
3 5 . Morgan, “ ‘To Get Quit of Negroes.’ ”
3 6 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 100.
3 7. Ibid.
3 8 . WWR, 102. “Reward for Runaway Slaves,” August 11,
1761.
3 9 . Ibid., 103.
4 0 . Ibid.
4 1 . Ibid., 102.
4 2 . WWR, 118. Letter to Josiah Thompson, July 2, 1766.
43 . Ibid.
4 4 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 188.
4 5 . PWC, 7:179.
4 6 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 23.
47. MTV. “Early Descriptions Ante 1800.” Joseph Hatﬁeld,
1787.
4 8 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 282.
4 9 . PWRT, 4:133. Letter to William Roberts, June 17, 1799.
5 0 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew Him,
118.
5 1 . PWRT, 1:525. Letter to James Anderson, December
21, 1797.
5 2 . Schwarz, Slavery at the Home of George Washington, 25.
5 3 . WWR, 845. Letter to William Pearce, October 6, 1793.
5 4 . WWF, 33:390. Letter to James Germain, June 1, 1794.
5 5 . PWCF, 5:526.
5 6 . MTV. “Early Descriptions Ante 1800.” John Hancock,
1799.

82 8

r! Notes

Chapter Eleven: The Prodigy
1 . PWC, 8:98. Letter to Charles Lawrence, June 20, 1768.
2 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 431.
3 . Unger, Lafayette, 39.
4 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:234.
5 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 127.
6 . Marshall, Life of George Washington, 466.
7. Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 205.
8 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 116.
9 . Thompson, Statements Regarding the Physical
Appearance, 71.
1 0 . Adams, Life and Writings of Jared Sparks, 1:558.
1 1 . Thompson, Statements Regarding the Physical
Appearance, 88.
1 2 . PWC, 7:257. Letter to Richard Washington, September
27, 1763.
13 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 127.
1 4 . WWR, 483. Letter to Bushrod Washington, January
15, 1783.
15 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 87–88.
1 6 . Lengel, General George Washington, 8.
17. Jefferson, Writings, 1319.
1 8 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:401.
1 9 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 71.
2 0 . PWP, 2:415. Letter to John Campbell, May 31, 1789.
2 1 . DiariesA, 105. Diary entry for March 2, 1768.
2 2 . Hervey, Memory of Washington, 93.
2 3 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 124.
2 4 . WWF, 35:341. Letter to George Washington Parke
Custis, December 19, 1796.
2 5 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 33.
2 6 . PWC, 7:260. Letter to George William Fairfax,
September 29, 1763.
Chapter Twelve: Providence
1 . Meade, “Gov. Fauquier.”
2 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 140.
3 . DiariesA, 110.
4 . Freeman, George Washington, 3:49.
5 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 207.
6 . PWC, 7:43. Letter to Van Swearingen, May 15, 1761.
7. Flexner, George Washington, 1:256. PWC, 7:13. Letter
from Robert Stewart, February 15, 1761.
8 . PWC, 7:43. Letter to Van Swearingen, May 15, 1761.
9 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 152.
1 0 . PWC, 7:59. Letter to Andrew Burnaby, July 27, 1761.
1 1 . Ibid., 7:68. Letter to Charles Green, August 26, 1761.
1 2 . Ibid., 7:80. Letter to Richard Washington, October
20, 1761.
13 . Ibid., 6:415. Letter from Augustine Washington, ca.
April 1760.
1 4 . Thompson, “In the Hands of a Good Providence,” 1.
15 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 183.
1 6 . Ibid., 246.
17. Thompson, “In the Hands of a Good Providence,” 20.
1 8 . PWRT, 1:407. Letter to William Gordon, October 15, 1797.
1 9 . Marshall, Life of George Washington, 466.
2 0 . Thompson, “In the Hands of a Good Providence,” 52.
2 1 . Ibid., 94.
2 2 . Ibid., 92.
2 3 . Ibid., 9.
2 4 . PWCF, 1:232. Letter to Tench Tilghman, March 24,
1784.
2 5 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 231.

2 6 . WWR, 834. Letter to the Members of the New Church
in Baltimore, January 27, 1793.
2 7. PWP, 10:493. Letter to Edward Newenham, June 22,
1792.
2 8 . WWR, 590. Letter to George Mason, October 3, 1785.
2 9 . Ibid., 971. “Farewell Address,” September 19, 1796.
3 0 . PWP, 2:420. Letter to the General Assembly of the
Presbyterian Church, ca. May 1789.
3 1 . Thompson, “In the Hands of a Good Providence,” 124.
3 2 . Freeman, George Washington, 3:211.
3 3 . Ibid.
3 4 . PWRT, 2:37. Letter to David Stuart, January 22, 1798.
3 5 . PWC, 7:297.
3 6 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 144.
3 7. WWR, 483. Letter to Bushrod Washington, January
15, 1783.
3 8 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 144.
3 9 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew
Him, 88.
4 0 . Smith, “Surprising George Washington.”
Chapter Thirteen: A World of His Own
1 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:310.
2 . Ellis, His Excellency, 55.
3 . Freeman, George Washington, 3:123.
4 . Ibid., 3:132.
5 . Ibid., 3:136.
6 . Ibid.
7. Ibid., 3:142.
8 . PWC, 7:401. Letter to Robert Cary & Co., September
20, 1765.
9 . Isaacson, Benjamin Franklin, 230.
1 0 . PWC, 7:457. Letter to Robert Cary & Co., July 21, 1766.
1 1 . Ibid., 7:206. Letter to Robert Stewart, April 27, 1763.
1 2 . Ibid., 7:323. Letter to Robert Cary & Co., August 10,
1764.
13 . Ibid., 7:324.
1 4 . Ibid., 7:191. Invoice from Robert Cary & Co., April
13, 1763.
15 . Ibid., 8:93. Letter to Robert Cary & Co., June 6, 1768.
1 6 . Ibid., 8:92.
17. Ibid., 8:370. Letter to Robert Cary & Co., August 20,
1770.
1 8 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 8.
1 9 . Custis, Recollections and Private Memoirs of
Washington, 153.
2 0 . MTV. “Early Descriptions Ante 1800.” Chevalier de
Chastellux, 1780–82.
2 1 . Diaries, 2:146. Diary entry for April 11, 1769.
2 2 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 83.
2 3 . Ibid., 33.
2 4 . PWP, 9:438 and 8:401.
2 5 . PWC, 10:135.
2 6 . Ibid., 7:495. Letter from Martha Washington, March
30, 1767.
2 7. Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 88.
2 8 . PWC, 8:179. Letter to George Mason, April 5, 1769.
2 9 . Ibid.
3 0 . Ibid., 178.
3 1 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 150.
3 2 . DiariesA, 128.
3 3 . Ibid.
3 4 . Ibid., 129. Diary entry for May 19, 1769.
3 5 . Ibid.

Notes r! 82 9
3 6 . WWR, 133. Letter to Robert Cary & Co., July 25, 1769.
3 7. Flexner, George Washington, 1:315.
3 8 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 97.
3 9 . WWR, 121. Letter to John Posey, June 24, 1767.
4 0 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 104.
4 1 . Freeman, George Washington, 3:246–47.
4 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:289.
43 . Ellis, His Excellency, 56.
4 4 . DiariesA, 151. Diary entry for October 19, 1770.
4 5 . Ibid., 150. Diary entry for October 14, 1770.
4 6 . PWC, 9:460. Letter to George Muse, January 29, 1774.
47. Ibid., 9:461.
4 8 . WWR, 139. Letter to Thomas Johnson, July 20, 1770.
4 9 . Ibid., 138.
5 0 . Ibid.
5 1 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 77.
Chapter Fourteen: The Asiatic Prince
1 . MTV. “Early Descriptions Ante 1800.” Journal of
Nathanael Greene, September 12, 1783.
2 . Griswold, Washington’s Gardens at Mount Vernon, 20.
3 . Brady, Martha Washington, 185.
4 . Diaries, 2:141. Diary entry for April 14, 1769.
5 . PWC, 8:240. Letter to John Armstrong, August 18, 1769.
6 . Ibid., 8:496. Letter to Jonathan Boucher, July 9, 1771.
7. Ibid., 8:89–90. Letter to Jonathan Boucher, May 30,
1768.
8 . Ibid., 8:96. Letter from Jonathan Boucher, June 16, 1768.
9 . Ibid., 8:122–24. Letter from Jonathan Boucher, August
2, 1768.
1 0 . Ibid., 8:227. Letter from Jonathan Boucher, July 20,
1769.
1 1 . Ibid., 8:339. Letter from Jonathan Boucher, May 21, 1770.
1 2 . Ibid., 8:412. Letter to Jonathan Boucher, December
16, 1770.
13 . Ibid., 8:414. Letter from Jonathan Boucher, December
18, 1770.
1 4 . Ibid., 8:426. Letter to Jonathan Boucher, January 2,
1771.
15 . Ibid., 8:348. Letter to Jonathan Boucher, June 2, 1770.
1 6 . Freeman, George Washington, 3:312.
17. PWC, 8:415. Letter from Jonathan Boucher, December
18, 1770.
1 8 . WWR, 144. Letter to Benedict Calvert, April 3, 1773.
1 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:228.
2 0 . PWC, 10:349.
2 1 . PWR, 3:189.
2 2 . PWC, 9:49. Letter to Jonathan Boucher, May 21, 1772.
2 3 . Custis, Recollections and Private Memoirs of
Washington, 528.
2 4 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 56.
2 5 . Diaries, 3:182.
2 6 . PWC, 9:266.
2 7. Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 84.
2 8 . MTV. “Early Descriptions 1801–1841.” Charles Willson
Peale Journal, May–June 1804.
2 9 . PWC, 9:243. Letter to Burwell Bassett, June 20, 1773.
3 0 . Thompson, “In the Hands of a Good Providence,” 94.
3 1 . Ibid., 121.
3 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:247.
3 3 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 10.
3 4 . PWC, 10:109. Letter to Bryan Fairfax, July 4, 1774.
3 5 . Dalzell and Dalzell, George Washington’s Mount
Vernon, 79.

3 6 . PWC, 9:326. Letter from Dr. Myles Cooper, September
20, 1773.
3 7. Ibid., 9:406–7. Letter to Myles Cooper, December 15,
1773.
3 8 . Ibid., 9:212. Letter from Jonathan Boucher, April 8,
1773.
Chapter Fifteen: A Shock of Electricity
1 . Diaries, 3:166.
2 . Stoll, Samuel Adams, 115.
3 . Ferling, “Myths of the American Revolution.”
4 . PWC, 2:179. Letter from Thomas Gage, November 23,
1755.
5 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 69.
6 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:320.
7. Ellis, His Excellency, 58.
8 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 123.
9 . DiariesA, 189.
1 0 . PWC, 10:119–25. “Fairfax County Resolves,” July 18,
1774.
1 1 . WWR, 154. Letter to Bryan Fairfax, July 20,1774.
1 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:322.
13 . Ellis, His Excellency, 64.
1 4 . PWC, 10:96–97. Letter to George William Fairfax, June
10, 1774.
15 . Ibid., 10:96.
1 6 . Ibid., 10:97.
17. Ibid., 10:109–10. Letter to Bryan Fairfax, July 4, 1774.
1 8 . Ibid., 10:110.
1 9 . WWR, 155–56. Letter to Bryan Fairfax, July 20, 1774.
2 0 . Ibid.
2 1 . Ibid., 156.
2 2 . Ibid., 157. Letter to Bryan Fairfax, August 24, 1774.
2 3 . DiariesA, 190.
2 4 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 21.
2 5 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 132.
2 6 . Brady, Martha Washington, 92.
2 7. McCullough, John Adams, 86.
2 8 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 193.
2 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:324.
3 0 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 138.
3 1 . WWR, 159. Letter to Robert McKenzie, October 9, 1774.
3 2 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 22.
3 3 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 95.
3 4 . PWC, 10:172. Letter to Robert McKenzie, October 9,
1774.
3 5 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 95.
3 6 . Diaries, 3:285.
3 7. DiariesA, ix.
3 8 . Diaries, 3:280.
3 9 . WWR, 160. Letter to Robert McKenzie, October 9,
1774.
4 0 . Stoll, Samuel Adams, 138.
4 1 . PWC, 10:191. Letter to John Tayloe, November 30, 1774.
4 2 . Ibid., 10:269.
43 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 149.
4 4 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:328.
4 5 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 148.
4 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:329.
47. Irving, Life of George Washington, 154.
4 8 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 149.
4 9 . Freeman, George Washington, 3:404.
5 0 . Ibid., 3:405.
5 1 . Ibid., 3:406.

830

r! Notes

5 2 . PWC, 10:308. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
March 25, 1775.
5 3 . Ibid., 10:292. Letter to John Washington, March 6, 1775.
5 4 . Freeman, George Washington, 3:409.
5 5 . PWC, 10:320. Letter to Lord Dunmore, April 3, 1775.
5 6 . Freeman, George Washington, 3:409.
5 7. Flexner, George Washington, 1:330.
5 8 . Ibid., 1:335.
Chapter Sixteen: The Glorious Cause
1 . Stoll, Samuel Adams, 157.
2 . PWC, 10:368. Letter to George William Fairfax, May
31, 1775.
3 . Smith, John Marshall, 44.
4 . Diaries, 3:327. Diary entry for May 4, 1775.
5 . DiariesA, 197.
6 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 162.
7. Ibid., 182.
8 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:333.
9 . WWR, 164. Letter to George William Fairfax, May 31,
1775.
1 0 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 162.
1 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:334.
1 2 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 97.
13 . Ibid., 98.
1 4 . Ibid.
15 . Ibid., 97.
1 6 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 22.
17. Flexner, George Washington, 1:343.
1 8 . PWR, 13:322. Letter to William Gordon, January 23,
1778.
1 9 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 163.
2 0 . Grant, John Adams, 156.
2 1 . Ibid.
2 2 . DiariesA, 198.
2 3 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:338.
2 4 . Ibid., 2:9.
2 5 . Diaries, 3:336. Diary entry for June 15, 1775.
2 6 . DiariesA, 198.
2 7. PWR, 1:1. “Address to the Continental Congress,” June
16, 1775.
2 8 . Ibid., 1:2–3.
2 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:342.
3 0 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 177.
3 1 . Freeman, George Washington, 3:439–40.
3 2 . WWR, 167–68. Letter to Martha Washington, June
18, 1775.
3 3 . Ibid., 168.
3 4 . PWR, 1:15. Letter to John Parke Custis, June 19, 1775.
3 5 . WWR, 168. Letter to Martha Washington, June 18, 1775.
Ibid., 170. Letter to Burwell Bassett, June 19, 1775.
3 6 . Ibid., 170. Letter to Burwell Bassett, June 19, 1775.
3 7. Cadou, George Washington Collection, 213.
3 8 . McCullough, 1776, 57.
3 9 . Ibid., 44.
4 0 . PWR, 1:56.
4 1 . WWF, 14:385. Letter to John Jay, April 14, 1779.
4 2 . WWR, 222. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
March 31, 1776.
43 . Cunliffe, George Washington, 75.
4 4 . PWR, 1:95.
4 5 . Ibid., 1:16. Letter to the Ofﬁcers of Five Virginia
Independent Companies, June 20, 1775.
4 6 . WWR, 173. Letter to Martha Washington, June 23, 1775.

47. PWR, 1:33.
4 8 . Ibid., 1:34.
4 9 . Golway, Washington’s General, 55.
5 0 . PWR, 1:135. Letter to Samuel Washington, July 20, 1775.
5 1 . WWR, 184–85. Letter to Lund Washington, August
20, 1775.
5 2 . PWR, 1:41. “Address to the New York Provincial
Congress,” June 26, 1775.
5 3 . Freeman, George Washington, 3:470.
5 4 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:27.
5 5 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, xxi.
5 6 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 182.
Chapter Seventeen: Magniﬁcent Bluff
1 . Batchelder, “Col. Henry Vassall.”
2 . WWR, 178. Letter to Richard Henry Lee, July 10, 1775.
3 . PWR, 1:54. “General Orders,” July 4, 1775.
4 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 213–14.
5 . Anderson, “Hinge of Revolution.”
6 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 111.
7. Ibid.
8 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 196.
9 . Freeman, George Washington, 3:504–5.
1 0 . PWR, 1:135. Letter to Samuel Washington, July 20, 1775.
1 1 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 11.
1 2 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 105.
13 . PWR, 6:482. Letter to Patrick Henry, October 5, 1776.
1 4 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 69.
15 . Anderson, “Hinge of Revolution.”
1 6 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 214.
17. WWF, 20:489. Letter to John Sullivan, December 17,
1780.
1 8 . McCullough, 1776, 31.
1 9 . PWR, 1:55. “General Orders,” July 4, 1775.
2 0 . Ibid., 1:93.
2 1 . McCullough, 1776, 32.
2 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:36.
2 3 . Thompson, Statements Regarding the Physical
Appearance, 4.
2 4 . PWR, 1:104. Letter to James Warren, July 10, 1775.
2 5 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 136.
2 6 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 111.
2 7. Flexner, George Washington, 2:541.
2 8 . Massachusetts Historical Society. Timothy Pickering
Papers, P-31, Reel 51, p. 228.
2 9 . PWR, 1:140. Letter to John Hancock, July 21, 1775.
3 0 . WWR, 195–96. Letter to Joseph Reed, December 15,
1775.
3 1 . McCullough, 1776, 62.
3 2 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 175.
3 3 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:36.
3 4 . PWR, 1:221. Letter to Nicholas Cooke, August 4, 1775.
3 5 . Ibid., 1:218. “General Orders,” August 4, 1775.
3 6 . WWR, 181. Letter to Thomas Gage, August 11, 1775.
3 7. PWR, 1:302. Letter from Thomas Gage, August 13, 1775.
3 8 . WWR, 182–83. Letter to Thomas Gage, August 19, 1775.
3 9 . PWR, 1:372. Letter to Richard Henry Lee, August 29,
1775.
4 0 . WWR, 184. Letter to Lund Washington, August 20,
1775.
4 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:37.
4 2 . Ibid., 2:49.
43 . Higginbotham, George Washington Reconsidered, 278.
4 4 . McCullough, 1776, 22.

Notes r! 83 1
4 5 . Golway, Washington’s General, 45.
4 6 . Ibid., 54.
47. WWF, 20:241. Letter to George Mason, October 22,
1780.
4 8 . Golway, Washington’s General, 67.
4 9 . Massachusetts Historical Society. Timothy Pickering
Papers, P-31, Reel 51, p. 139.
5 0 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew Him, 53.
5 1 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 20.
5 2 . DiariesA, 361.
5 3 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 271.
5 4 . Ibid., 32.
5 5 . Ibid., 227.
5 6 . PWRT, 3:42. Letter to John Adams, September 25, 1798.
5 7. Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 65.
Chapter Eighteen: Land of Freedom
1 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 276.
2 . McCullough, 1776, 51.
3 . Ibid., 39.
4 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 260.
5 . PWR, 2:29. Letter to John Hancock, September 21, 1775.
6 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 15.
7. Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 133.
8 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 115.
9 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:50.
1 0 . WWF, 22:161. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, June
4, 1781.
1 1 . WWR, 1011. Letter to John Adams, September 25, 1798.
1 2 . Freeman, George Washington, 3:553.
13 . Ibid., 3:556.
1 4 . PWR, 2:239. Letter to Major General Philip Schuyler,
October 26, 1775.
15 . McCullough, 1776, 56.
1 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:53.
17. PWR, 1:399. “Instructions to Captain Nicholas
Broughton,” September 2, 1775.
1 8 . Ibid., 2:463. Letter to Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Reed,
November 30, 1775.
1 9 . PWP, 10:74–75. “Memorandum on General Ofﬁcers,”
Philadelphia, March 9, 1792.
2 0 . Fund, “Whiskey Entrepreneur.”
2 1 . PWR, 2:300. “General Orders,” November 5, 1775.
2 2 . Ibid., 1:287. “General Orders,” August 11, 1775.
2 3 . Ibid., 1:321. “General Orders,” August 18, 1775.
2 4 . Ibid., 1:346. “General Orders,” August 22, 1775.
2 5 . Ibid., 2:493. Letter to Colonel Benedict Arnold,
December 5, 1775.
2 6 . Ibid., 2:498. Letter to Major General Philip Schuyler,
December 5, 1775.
2 7. Ibid., 3:78. Letter from Major General Philip Schuyler,
January 13, 1776.
2 8 . Morgan, Genius of George Washington, 10.
2 9 . PWR, 1:169. “General Orders,” July 25, 1775.
3 0 . Cunliffe, George Washington, 78.
3 1 . McCullough, 1776, 64.
3 2 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 185.
3 3 . McCullough, 1776, 36.
3 4 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 200.
3 5 . PWR, 2:125. “Council of War,” October 8, 1775.
3 6 . Ibid., 2:354. “General Orders,” November 12, 1775.
3 7. Hochschild, Bury the Chains, 98.
3 8 . PWR, 2:436. Letter to Richard Henry Lee, November
27, 1775.

3 9 . Ibid., 2:611. Letter to Richard Henry Lee, December
26, 1775.
4 0 . WWR, 195. Letter to Joseph Reed, December 15, 1775.
4 1 . PWR, 2:623. Letter to John Hancock, December 31,
1775.
4 2 . Ellis, American Creation, 35.
43 . McCullough, 1776, 65.
4 4 . PWR, 2:614. “General Orders,” December 28, 1775.
4 5 . WWR, 196. “General Orders,” January 1, 1776.
4 6 . PWR, 3:19. Letter to John Hancock, January 4, 1776.
47. WWR, 203. Letter to Joseph Reed, January 14, 1776.
4 8 . Ibid.
4 9 . Smith, John Marshall, 51.
5 0 . WWR, 206. Letter to Joseph Reed, January 31, 1776.
5 1 . Cunliffe, George Washington, 75.
5 2 . Nelson, Thomas Paine, 88.
5 3 . PWR, 3:183. Letter from Major General Charles Lee,
January 24, 1776.
5 4 . Ibid., 3:419. Letter from Fielding Lewis, March 6, 1776.
5 5 . WWR, 206. Letter to Joseph Reed, January 31, 1776.
5 6 . PWCF, 1:445. Letter to James Madison, June 12, 1784.
5 7. PWR, 2:74. Letter to Samuel Washington, September
30, 1775.
5 8 . Ibid., 2:72.
5 9 . Ibid., 2:162. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
October 13, 1775.
6 0 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 164.
6 1 . Brady, Martha Washington, 104.
6 2 . Thompson, “ ‘As If I had Been a Very Great
Somebody.’ ”
63 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 91.
6 4 . PWR, 3:172. Letter to Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Reed,
January 23, 1776.
6 5 . Ibid., 2:252. Letter to Richard Henry Lee, October
29, 1775.
6 6 . Ibid., 3:173. Letter to Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Reed,
January 23, 1776.
67. Flexner, George Washington, 2:60.
6 8 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 164.
6 9 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 94.
7 0 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 110.
7 1 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 19.
7 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:59.
7 3 . Golway, Washington’s General, 74.
74 . Thompson, “ ‘As If I had Been a Very Great Somebody.’”
7 5 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 159.
7 6 . WWR, 207. Letter to Joseph Reed, January 31, 1776.
7 7. PWR, 2:243. “Poem by Phillis Wheatley.”
7 8 . WWR, 216. Letter to Phillis Wheatley, February 28,
1776.
7 9 . Ibid.
8 0 . Thompson, “ ‘As If I had Been a Very Great Somebody.’”
Chapter Nineteen: The Heights
1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:427.
2 . PWR, 3:449. “General Orders,” March 11, 1776.
3 . Ibid., 9:315. Letter to Colonels Alexander Spotswood et
al., April 30, 1777.
4 . Ibid.
5 . Custis, Recollections and Private Memoirs, 258.
6 . PWR, 3:27. “General Orders,” January 5, 1776.
7. WWF, 24:110–11. Letter to the Secretary at War, April
10, 1782.
8 . Ibid., 254. “General Orders,” May 14, 1782.

832

r! Notes

9 . PWR, 3:85. Letter to John Hancock, January 14, 1776.
1 0 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 274.
1 1 . PWR, 3:287. Letter to Joseph Reed, February 10, 1776.
1 2 . Ibid., 3:336. Letter to John Hancock, February 18, 1776.
13 . Ibid., 3:335.
1 4 . Ibid., 3:370. Letter to Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Reed,
February 26, 1776.
15 . McCullough, 1776, 87.
1 6 . PWR, 3:379. “General Orders,” February 17, 1776.
17. McCullough, 1776, 92.
1 8 . Ibid., 92.
1 9 . Ibid., 93.
2 0 . Ibid., 95.
2 1 . Ibid.
2 2 . Trumbull, Autobiography of Colonel John Trumbull, 24.
2 3 . PWR, 3:467. Letter to Major General Charles Lee,
March 14, 1776.
2 4 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:77.
2 5 . WWR, 221. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
March 31, 1776.
2 6 . McCullough, 1776, 105.
2 7. Freeman, George Washington, 4:55.
2 8 . PWR, 3:494. Letter to Lieutenant Colonel Joseph
Reed, March 19, 1776.
2 9 . WWR, 217. Letter to John Hancock, March 19, 1776.
3 0 . PWR, 3:501–2. “Proclamation on the Occupation of
Boston,” March 21, 1776.
3 1 . Ibid., 3:514. Letter to John Morgan, March 22, 1776.
3 2 . Ibid., 3:566–69. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
March 31, 1776.
3 3 . Stahr, John Jay, 58.
3 4 . Freeman, George Washington, 4:91.
3 5 . PWR, 3:508. Letter from Josiah Quincy, March 21, 1776.
3 6 . Ibid., 3:528. Letter to Josiah Quincy, March 24, 1776.
3 7. Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 11.
3 8 . WWR, 220. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
March 31, 1776.
3 9 . Golway, Washington’s General, 80.
4 0 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 230.
4 1 . PWR, 4:75. “General Orders,” April 17, 1776.
4 2 . McCullough, 1776, 125.
43 . Freeman, George Washington, 4:5.
4 4 . WWR, 224. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
May 31, 1776.
4 5 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:93.
4 6 . PWR, 4:485. Letter from John Parke Custis, June 10,
1776.
47. Ibid., 5:74.
4 8 . Ibid., 5:134. Letter to John Hancock, June 28, 1776.
4 9 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 75.
5 0 . PWR, 5:129. “General Orders,” June 28, 1776.
5 1 . Ibid.
Chapter Twenty: All London Aﬂoat
1 . McCullough, 1776, 142.
2 . Ibid., 6.
3 . Ibid., 19.
4 . Ibid., 131.
5 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 64.
6 . PWR, 5:266. Letter to John Hancock, July 11, 1776.
7. McCullough, 1776, 135.
8 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 31.
9 . PWR, 5:180. “General Orders,” July 2, 1776.
1 0 . Ibid., 5:181.

1 1 . Ibid., 5:191–93. Letter to John Hancock, July 3, 1776.
1 2 . PWR, 4:11. Letter to Joseph Reed, April 1, 1776.
13 . Darnton, George Washington’s False Teeth, 98.
1 4 . Winik, Great Upheaval, 76.
15 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 44.
1 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:14.
17. Wills, Cincinnatus, 187.
1 8 . PWR, 3:386. Letter to Burwell Bassett, February 28, 1776.
1 9 . Ibid., 5:246. “General Orders,” July 9, 1776.
2 0 . Ibid.
2 1 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 29.
2 2 . PWR, 5:258. Letter to John Hancock, July 10, 1776.
2 3 . McCullough, 1776, 141.
2 4 . PWR, 5:256–57. “General Orders,” July 10, 1776.
2 5 . Ibid., 5:260. Letter to John Hancock, July 10, 1776.
2 6 . Ibid., 6:54. Letter to the New York Convention, August
17, 1776.
2 7. Freeman, George Washington, 4:136–37.
2 8 . PWR, 10:410. Letter to John Hancock, July 25, 1777.
2 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:156.
3 0 . McCullough, 1776, 75.
3 1 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 219.
3 2 . PWR, 5:296. Letter from Lord Howe, July 13, 1776.
3 3 . Ibid., 4:11. Letter to Joseph Reed, April 1, 1776.
3 4 . Ibid., 5:297.
3 5 . Freeman, George Washington, 4:139.
3 6 . PWR, 5:306. Letter to John Hancock, July 14, 1776.
3 7. Thompson, Statements Regarding the Physical
Appearance, 6.
3 8 . Ibid.
3 9 . Ibid., 7.
4 0 . McCullough, 1776, 145.
4 1 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 66.
4 2 . Ibid., 65.
43 . Ibid.
4 4 . PWR, 5:400–401. “Memorandum of an Interview with
Lieutenant Colonel James Paterson,” July 20, 1776.
4 5 . Ibid., 5:401.
4 6 . Ibid., 5:408. Letter to Colonel Adam Stephen, July
20, 1776.
47. Ibid., 5:424. Letter to John Hancock, July 22, 1776.
4 8 . McCullough, 1776, 147.
4 9 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 87.
5 0 . McCullough, 1776, 151.
5 1 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 20.
5 2 . Golway, Washington’s General, 90.
5 3 . McCullough, 1776, 153.
5 4 . Ibid., 148.
5 5 . Ibid.
5 6 . WWR, 236. Letter to Lund Washington, August 19,
1776.
Chapter Twenty-one: Disaster
1 . PWR, 5:610. Letter to Jesse Root, August 7, 1776.
2 . Ibid., 5:632. Letter to Brigadier General William
Livingston, August 8, 1776.
3 . Ibid., 6:18. “General Orders,” August 14, 1776.
4 . McCullough, 1776, 155–56.
5 . WWR, 234. Letter to Lund Washington, August 19, 1776.
6 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 90.
7. WWR, 239. “General Orders,” August 23, 1776.
8 . McCullough, 1776, 161.
9 . PWR, 16:490. Letter from Major General Israel Putnam,
September 2, 1778.

Notes r! 833
1 0 . Ibid., 6:129. Letter to John Hancock, August 26, 1776.
1 1 . Ibid., 6:137. Letter to Lund Washington, August 26,
1776.
1 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:110.
13 . Ibid.
1 4 . PWR, 6:162.
15 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 239.
1 6 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 98.
17. Freeman, George Washington, 4:178.
1 8 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 186.
1 9 . McCullough, 1776, 178.
2 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:112.
2 1 . Ibid., 2:114.
2 2 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 243.
2 3 . McCullough, 1776, 190.
2 4 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 101.
2 5 . Schecter, Battle for New York, 165.
2 6 . PWR, 6:495. Letter to Lund Washington, October 6,
1776.
2 7. Ibid., 6:164.
2 8 . Ibid., 6:364. “General Orders,” September 22, 1776.
2 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:121.
3 0 . PWR, 6:494. Letter to Lund Washington, October 6,
1776.
3 1 . Ibid., 6:114. Letter to the New York Convention, August
23, 1776.
3 2 . Ibid., 6:207. Letter from John Hancock, September
3, 1776.
3 3 . McCullough, 1776, 204.
3 4 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:119.
3 5 . PWR, 6:249. Letter to John Hancock, September 8,
1776.
3 6 . Ibid.
3 7. Ibid., 6:251.
3 8 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 245.
3 9 . McCullough, 1776, 211.
4 0 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 19.
4 1 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 245.
4 2 . PWR, 6:313. Letter to John Hancock, September 16,
1776.
43 . Thompson, Statements Regarding the Physical
Appearance, 8.
4 4 . PWR, 6:316.
4 5 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:123.
4 6 . PWR, 6:313. Letter to John Hancock, September 16,
1776.
47. Ibid., 6:316.
4 8 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:123.
4 9 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 104.
5 0 . PWR, 6:334.
5 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:129.
5 2 . Lengel, General George Washington, 157.
5 3 . PWR, 6:320. “General Orders,” September 17, 1776.
5 4 . Ibid., 6:348. “General Orders,” September 20, 1776.
5 5 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 81.
5 6 . Golway, Washington’s General, 96.
5 7. Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 106.
5 8 . PWR, 6:370.
5 9 . Ibid., 6:400. Letter to John Hancock, September 25,
1776.
6 0 . Freeman, George Washington, 4:208.
6 1 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 73.
6 2 . WWR, 255. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
November 6, 1776.

63 . Ibid., 249. Letter to Lund Washington, September
30, 1776.
6 4 . Ibid., 250.
Chapter Twenty-two: An Indecisive Mind
1 . McCullough, 1776, 230.
2 . PWR, 7:57.
3 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:136.
4 . PWR, 7:52.
5 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:140.
6 . Lengel, General George Washington, 163.
7. Ibid., 228.
8 . PWR, 7:115–16. Letter to Major General Nathanael
Greene, November 8, 1776.
9 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 113.
1 0 . Freeman, George Washington, 4:235.
1 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:145.
1 2 . Ibid., 2:148.
13 . PWR, 7:106.
1 4 . Ibid., 7:154. Letter to John Hancock, November 14,
1776.
15 . McCullough, 1776, 239.
1 6 . PWR, 7:163. Letter to John Hancock, November 16,
1776.
17. McCullough, 1776, 240.
1 8 . Lengel, General George Washington, 167.
1 9 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 274.
2 0 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 250.
2 1 . McCullough, 1776, 243.
2 2 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 75.
2 3 . PWR, 7:104. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
November 19, 1776.
2 4 . Freeman, George Washington, 4:293.
2 5 . Ibid., 4:264.
2 6 . Lengel, General George Washington, 168.
2 7. Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 250.
2 8 . Golway, Washington’s General, 105.
2 9 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 125.
3 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:157.
3 1 . McCullough, 1776, 247.
3 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:171.
3 3 . Grizzard, George!, 267.
3 4 . PWR, 7:238.
3 5 . Ibid., 7:237.
3 6 . Ibid., 7:237. Letter to Colonel Joseph Reed, November
30, 1776.
3 7. Ibid., 8:542. Letter from Joseph Reed, March 8, 1777.
3 8 . Ibid., 10:4. Letter to Joseph Reed, June 11, 1777.
3 9 . Ibid., 7:235. Letter from Charles Lee, November 30,
1776.
4 0 . Ibid., 7:256. Letter to John Hancock, December 3, 1776.
4 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:167.
4 2 . PWR, 7:371. Letter to Samuel Washington, December
18, 1776.
43 . Ibid., 7:365. Letter to James Bowdoin, December 18,
1776.
Chapter Twenty-three: The Crossing
1 . PWR, 7:321. Letter to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., December
12, 1776.
2 . WWF, 19:408. Letter to the President of Congress,
August 20, 1780.
3 . WWR, 257. Letter to John Hancock, December 5, 1776.
4 . McCullough, 1776, 262.

83 4

r! Notes

5 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 133.
6 . McCullough, 1776, 272.
7. PWR, 7:370. Letter to Samuel Washington, December
18, 1776.
8 . Ibid., 7:415. Letter from Colonel Joseph Reed,
December 22, 1776.
9 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 283.
1 0 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 196.
1 1 . Nelson, Thomas Paine, 113.
1 2 . Ibid., 114.
13 . PWR, 7:423. Letter to Colonel Joseph Reed, December
23, 1776.
1 4 . McCullough, 1776, 168.
15 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 220.
1 6 . Ibid., 203.
17. PWR, 7:436. “General Orders,” December 25, 1776.
1 8 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 218.
1 9 . McCullough, 1776, 271.
2 0 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 212.
2 1 . Ibid., 218.
2 2 . McCullough, 1776, 276.
2 3 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 228.
2 4 . McCullough, 1776, 277.
2 5 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 231.
2 6 . Ibid., 232.
2 7. Ibid., 190.
2 8 . Ibid., 204.
2 9 . WWR, 264. Letter to John Hancock, December 27, 1776.
3 0 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 248.
3 1 . Ibid., 249.
3 2 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 287.
3 3 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:188.
3 4 . PWR, 7:448. “General Orders,” December 27, 1776.
3 5 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 266.
3 6 . Ibid., 266.
3 7. Ibid., 144.
3 8 . Ibid.
3 9 . WWR, 265. Letter to Robert Morris, George Clymer,
and George Walton, January 1, 1777.
4 0 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 272.
4 1 . PWR, 8:123. Letter to John Parke Custis, January 22,
1777.
4 2 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 272–73.
43 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 91.
4 4 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 300–301.
4 5 . Ibid., 307.
4 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:183.
47. Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 314.
4 8 . Ibid., 315.
4 9 . Ibid., 318.
5 0 . Ibid., 324.
5 1 . McCullough, 1776, 288.
5 2 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 333.
5 3 . PWR, 7:528.
5 4 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:185.
5 5 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 293.
5 6 . McCullough, 1776, 289.
5 7. Flexner, George Washington, 2:187.
5 8 . Lengel, General George Washington, 204.
5 9 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 379.
6 0 . PWR, 8:37. Letter to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., January
10, 1777.
6 1 . Fischer, Washington’s Crossing, 259.
6 2 . Ibid., 289.

63 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:189.
6 4 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 98.
6 5 . McCullough, 1776, 291.
6 6 . PWR, 7:529.
Chapter Twenty-four: The Busy Scenes of a Camp
1 . PWR, 8:123. Letter to John Parke Custis, January 22,
1777.
2 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 203.
3 . WWF, 19:408. Letter to the President of Congress,
August 20, 1780.
4 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:191.
5 . PWR, 8:61. Letter to Robert Morris, January 13, 1777.
6 . Brady, Martha Washington, 114.
7. Flexner, George Washington, 2:198.
8 . Ibid., 2:533.
9 . WWF, 13:139. “General Orders,” October 23, 1778.
1 0 . Longmore, Invention of George Washington, 193.
1 1 . WWR, 269. “Proclamation Concerning Loyalists,”
January 25, 1777.
1 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:193. Fischer,
Washington’s Crossing, 353.
13 . Golway, Washington’s General, 120.
1 4 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 202.
15 . WWF, 16:58. Letter to Major General Robert Howe,
August 6, 1779.
1 6 . WWR, 344. Letter to Elias Boudinot, May 3, 1779.
17. WWF, 14:277. Letter to Major Benjamin Tallmadge,
March 21, 1779.
1 8 . Ibid.
1 9 . PWR, 7:489. Letter to Robert Morris, December 30,
1776.
2 0 . Weintraub, General Washington’s Christmas Farewell,
120.
2 1 . PWR, 9:9. Letter to Elisha Boudinot, March 29, 1777.
2 2 . Ibid., 79. Letter to Joseph Reed, April 7, 1777.
2 3 . Ibid.
2 4 . WWF, 14:291. Letter to Major General Alexander
McDougall, March 25, 1779.
2 5 . PWR, 4:112–13. Letter to John Hancock, April 23, 1776.
2 6 . Ibid., 8:584. Letter to Samuel Washington, March 15,
1777.
2 7. Ibid., 5:462. Letter to John Hancock, July 25, 1776.
2 8 . Jefferson, Writings, 1319.
2 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:401.
3 0 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 30.
3 1 . Golway, Washington’s General, 118.
3 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:302.
3 3 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 89. PWR, 2:407. Letter
to Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Reed, November 20, 1775.
3 4 . PWRT, 3:41. Letter to John Adams, September 25, 1798.
3 5 . Massachusetts Historical Society. Timothy Pickering
Papers, P-31, Reel 52, p. 27.
3 6 . Ibid., P-31, Reel 51, p. 106.
3 7. WWR, 200. Letter to Joseph Reed, January 14, 1776.
3 8 . WWF, 20:293. Letter to the President of Congress,
November 5, 1780.
3 9 . Freeman, George Washington, 4:210.
4 0 . WWR, 190. Letter to William Woodford, November
10, 1775.
4 1 . WWF, 18:45. Letter to the Board of War, February 23,
1780.
4 2 . Ibid., 14:400. “General Orders,” April 17, 1779.
43 . Ibid., 24:261. “General Orders,” May 16, 1782.

Notes r! 835
4 4 . PWR, 15:82. “General Orders,” May 9, 1778.
4 5 . WWF, 16:13. “General Orders,” July 29, 1779.
4 6 . WWR, 228. “General Orders,” July 9, 1779.
47. PWR, 2:74. Letter to Samuel Washington, September
30, 1775.
4 8 . WWF, 24:432. Letter to James McHenry, July 18, 1782.
4 9 . Thompson, Statements Regarding the Physical
Appearance, 12.
5 0 . Thompson, “ ‘As If I had Been a Very Great Somebody.’”
5 1 . PWR, 9:322.
5 2 . Ibid.
5 3 . Ibid., 9:321–22.
5 4 . Ibid., 9:321.
5 5 . WWR, 413. Letter to Sarah Bache, January 15, 1781.
5 6 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 177.
5 7. Ibid.
5 8 . PWCF, 2:412. Letter to William Gordon, March 8, 1785.
5 9 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 15.
6 0 . Grant, John Adams, 304.
6 1 . WWF, 22:353. Letter to Joseph Jones, July 10, 1781.
6 2 . Unger, Lafayette, 4.
63 . Ibid., 7.
6 4 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 36.
6 5 . Ibid., 37.
6 6 . Unger, Lafayette, 30.
67. Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 63.
6 8 . Ibid., 67.
6 9 . PWR, 10:602.
7 0 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 6.
7 1 . Ibid., 93.
7 2 . Ibid., 70.
7 3 . Ibid.
74 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:215.
7 5 . Ibid.
7 6 . Schiff, Great Improvisation, 55.
7 7. PWR, 8:382. Letter to John Hancock, February 20,
1777.
7 8 . Isaacson, Benjamin Franklin, 341.
Chapter Twenty-ﬁve: Darkness Visible
1 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 223.
2 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:211.
3 . PWR, 10:290. Letter to Major General Philip Schuyler,
July 15, 1777.
4 . Ibid., 10:410. Letter to John Hancock, July 25, 1777.
5 . Ibid., 10:506. Letter to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., August
4, 1777.
6 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 231.
7. Ibid., 232.
8 . PWR, 11:52. Letter to John Hancock, August 23, 1777.
9 . Ibid., 11:53.
1 0 . Ibid., 11:51. “General Orders,” August 23, 1777.
1 1 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 71–72.
1 2 . PWR, 11:148. “General Orders,” September 7, 1777.
13 . Ibid., 11:157. “General Orders,” September 6, 1777.
1 4 . Lengel, General George Washington, 232.
15 . PWR, 11:190.
1 6 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 74.
17. PWR, 11:199. Letter to John Hancock, September 11,
1777.
1 8 . Freeman, George Washington, 4:485.
1 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:224.
2 0 . Unger, Lafayette, 50.
2 1 . Lengel, General George Washington, 241.

2 2 . PWR, 11:200. Letter to John Hancock, September 11,
1777.
2 3 . Ibid.
2 4 . PWR, 11:332. Letter to Brigadier General Thomas
Nelson, Jr., September 27, 1777.
2 5 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 75.
2 6 . Jefferson, Writings, 1318.
2 7. Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 336.
2 8 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:229.
2 9 . Ibid., 2:226.
3 0 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 75.
3 1 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 99.
3 2 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 335.
3 3 . Lengel, General George Washington, 247.
3 4 . Ibid., 250.
3 5 . Morgan, Genius of George Washington, 9.
3 6 . Lengel, General George Washington, 251.
3 7. Ellis, His Excellency, 107.
3 8 . PWR, 11:398.
3 9 . Lengel, General George Washington, 254.
4 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:233.
4 1 . Lengel, General George Washington, 255.
4 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:234.
43 . Lengel, General George Washington, 257.
4 4 . Custis, Recollections and Private Memoirs of
Washington, 200.
4 5 . PWR, 11:397.
4 6 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 245.
47. Nelson, Thomas Paine, 120.
4 8 . WWR, 278. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
October 18, 1777.
4 9 . PWR, 11:409. Letter to General William Howe,
October 6, 1777.
5 0 . Ibid., 11:410.
5 1 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 244.
5 2 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 239.
5 3 . PWR, 11:487. Letter to John Page, October 11, 1777.
5 4 . Ibid., 11:394. Letter to John Hancock, October 5, 1777.
5 5 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 245.
Chapter Twenty-six: Rapping a Demigod over the
Knuckles
1 . Nelson, Thomas Paine, 127.
2 . Golway, Washington’s General, 148.
3 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 78.
4 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:238.
5 . Ibid., 2:212.
6 . PWR, 10:240. Letter to John Hancock, July 10, 1777.
7. Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 238.
8 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:247.
9 . PWR, 11:512–13. “General Orders,” October 15, 1777.
1 0 . Cunliffe, George Washington, 109.
1 1 . PWR, 11:541. “General Orders,” October 18, 1777.
1 2 . Ibid., 11:596. Letter to John Hancock, October 24, 1777.
13 . Ibid., 11:614. Letter from John Hancock, October 25,
1777.
1 4 . Ibid., 12:21. Letter to Major General Israel Putnam,
October 26, 1777.
15 . Ibid., 12:93. Letter from Major General Horatio Gates,
November 2, 1777.
1 6 . Ibid., 12:27. Letter to Landon Carter, October 27, 1777.
17. Ibid., 12:243. Letter to Patrick Henry, November 13,
1777.
1 8 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 177.

83 6

r! Notes

1 9 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 21.
2 0 . Schiff, Great Improvisation, 109.
2 1 . PWR, 12:60–61. Letter to Lieutenant Colonel Alexander
Hamilton, October 30, 1777.
2 2 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 102.
2 3 . PWR, 12:141. Letter from Lieutenant Colonel
Alexander Hamilton, November 6, 1777.
2 4 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 338.
2 5 . Unger, Lafayette, 61.
2 6 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 276.
2 7. Freeman, George Washington, 4:597.
2 8 . Ibid., 4:547.
2 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:241.
3 0 . WWR, 275. Letter to Richard Henry Lee, October 17,
1777.
3 1 . Ibid.
3 2 . Ibid., 276.
3 3 . PWP, 10:75. “Memorandum on General Ofﬁcers,”
March 9, 1792.
3 4 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:248.
3 5 . PWR, 13:139.
3 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:258.
3 7. Freeman, George Washington, 4:556.
3 8 . PWR, 12:276. Letter from Brigadier General Thomas
Conway, November 16, 1777.
3 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:258.
4 0 . PWR, 12:577. Letter from Major General Horatio
Gates, December 8, 1777.
4 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:267.
4 2 . Ibid., 2:263.
43 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 339.
4 4 . Ibid., 340.
4 5 . Ibid., 341.
4 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:251.
47. PWR, 13:360. Letter from Major General Thomas
Conway, January 27, 1778.
4 8 . Grizzard, George!, 57.
4 9 . PWR, 13:195–96. Letter from Major General Thomas
Conway, January 10, 1778.
5 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:265.
5 1 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 278.
5 2 . PWR, 14:329. Letter to Patrick Henry, March 27, 1778.
5 3 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:266.
5 4 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 212.
5 5 . WWF, 14:385. Letter to John Jay, April 14, 1779.
5 6 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 100.
5 7. PWR, 16:140. Letter from Thomas Conway, July 23,
1778.
Chapter Twenty-seven: A Dreary Kind of Place
1 . Brady, Martha Washington, 120.
2 . PWR, 12:669. Letter to Henry Laurens, December 22,
1777.
3 . Ibid., 13:435. Letter to John Parke Custis, February 1, 1778.
4 . WWR, 284. Letter to Henry Laurens, December 23, 1777.
5 . Grizzard, George!, 319.
6 . WWR, 281. “General Orders,” December 17, 1777.
7. Callahan, Henry Knox, 127.
8 . Nelson, Thomas Paine, 121.
9 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:261.
1 0 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew Him, 27.
1 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:282.
1 2 . Golway, Washington’s General, 165.
13 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew Him, 13.

1 4 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:277.
15 . Ellis, American Creation, 69.
1 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:277.
17. Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 341.
1 8 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 96.
1 9 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 207.
2 0 . Smith, John Marshall, 63.
2 1 . WWR, 282. Letter to Henry Laurens, December 23, 1777.
2 2 . PWR, 18:448. Letter to Benjamin Harrison, December
18, 1778.
2 3 . Freeman, George Washington, 4:571.
2 4 . WWR, 299–300. Letter to John Banister, April 21, 1778.
2 5 . PWR, 13:323. Letter to Brigadier General John Lacey,
Jr., January 23, 1778.
2 6 . WWR, 292. Letter to George Clinton, February 16,
1778.
2 7. Ibid., 342. Letter to James Warren, March 31, 1779.
2 8 . Ibid., 340. Letter to George Mason, March 27, 1779.
2 9 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 175–76.
3 0 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 122.
3 1 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 107.
3 2 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 122.
3 3 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:283.
3 4 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 177.
3 5 . Zinoman, “Leadership and Honor, Noble and Not So,”
New York Times, October 24, 2008.
3 6 . Addison, Cato, 14.
3 7. Ibid., 31, 87.
3 8 . Ibid., 87, 84.
3 9 . Unger, Lafayette, 55.
4 0 . Ibid.
4 1 . Schiff, Great Improvisation, 227–28.
4 2 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 110.
43 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 148.
4 4 . PWR, 12:567. Letter from Baron von Steuben,
December 6, 1777.
4 5 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 104.
4 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:288.
47. PWR, 14:287. Letter to Lieutenant Colonels Francis
Barber and John Brooks, March 24, 1778.
4 8 . Ibid., 16:152. Letter to Henry Laurens, July 24, 1778.
4 9 . PWP, 10:74. “Memorandum on General Ofﬁcers,”
March 9, 1792.
5 0 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 128.
5 1 . Ibid., 218.
5 2 . Ibid., 244.
5 3 . PWR, 14:429. Letter from Lund Washington, April 8,
1778.
5 4 . Ibid., 16:315. Letter to Lund Washington, August 15,
1778.
5 5 . Ibid., 14:1. “General Orders,” March 1, 1778.
5 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:289.
5 7. PWR, 15:38–39. “General Orders,” May 5, 1778.
5 8 . Ibid., 15:39.
5 9 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 108.
6 0 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 124.
6 1 . Thompson, “In the Hands of a Good Providence,” 151.
6 2 . PWR, 15:221. Letter to Robert Morris, May 25, 1778.
Chapter Twenty-eight: The Long Retreat
1 . PWR, 12:27. Letter to Landon Carter, October 27, 1777.
2 . Wood, “The Making of a Disaster.”
3 . PWR, 15:262. Letter to Gouverneur Morris, May 29, 1778.
4 . Ibid., 15:261.

Notes r! 83 7
5 . Ibid., 8:289. Letter from Major General Charles Lee,
February 9, 1777.
6 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 345.
7. Lengel, General George Washington, 289.
8 . Ibid., 290.
9 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:294.
1 0 . PWR, 15:403. Letter from Major General Charles Lee,
June 15, 1778.
1 1 . Ibid., 14:325. “General Orders,” March 27, 1778.
1 2 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 143.
13 . Lengel, General George Washington, 291.
1 4 . Freeman, George Washington, 5:16.
15 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 113.
1 6 . PWR, 15:526. Letter from Major General Nathanael
Greene, June 24, 1778.
17. Lengel, General George Washington, 293.
1 8 . Ibid., 294.
1 9 . PWR, 15:536. “General Orders,” June 25, 1778.
2 0 . Ibid., 15:541. Letter from Major General Charles Lee,
June 25, 1778.
2 1 . Ibid., 15:560.
2 2 . Ibid., 16:4. Letter to Henry Laurens, July 1, 1778.
2 3 . Martin, Private Yankee Doodle, 127.
2 4 . Lengel, General George Washington, 300.
2 5 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:304.
2 6 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 114.
2 7. Flexner, George Washington, 2:305.
2 8 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 114.
2 9 . Lengel, General George Washington, 300.
3 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:305.
3 1 . Ibid.
3 2 . Grizzard, George!, 184.
3 3 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:306.
3 4 . Ibid.
3 5 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 114.
3 6 . PWR, 16:5. Letter to Henry Laurens, July 1, 1778.
3 7. Ibid., 16:25. Letter to John Augustine Washington, July
4, 1778.
3 8 . Ibid., 15:583. “General Orders,” June 29, 1778.
3 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:310.
4 0 . PWR, 16:35. Letter from Henry Laurens, July 7, 1778.
4 1 . WWF, 13:15. Letter to Henry Laurens, October 3, 1778.
4 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:311.
43 . Ibid.
4 4 . PWR, 15:594–95. Letter from Major General Charles
Lee, ca. June 30, 1778.
4 5 . Ibid., 15:595–96. Letter to Major General Charles Lee,
June 30, 1778.
4 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:312.
47. WWF, 13:334. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
November 26, 1778.
4 8 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:314.
4 9 . WWF, 13:384. Letter to President Joseph Reed,
December 12, 1778.
5 0 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 225.
5 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:327.
5 2 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 117.
Chapter Twenty-nine: Pests of Society
1 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 119.
2 . PWR, 16:38. Letter from Vice Admiral d’Estaing, July
8, 1778.
3 . WWR, 320. Letter to Thomas Nelson, August 20, 1778.
4 . Freeman, George Washington, 5:54.

5 . PWR, 8:580. Letter to Major General John Sullivan,
March 15, 1777.
6 . Ibid., 17:111. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
September 23, 1778.
7. Ibid., 16:464. Letter to Major General John Sullivan,
September 1, 1778.
8 . WWR, 321. Letter to Count d’Estaing, September 11,
1778.
9 . Unger, Lafayette, 86.
1 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:327.
1 1 . WWF, 20:350. “General Orders,” November 15, 1780.
1 2 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 169.
13 . WWR, 329. Letter to Henry Laurens, November 14,
1778.
1 4 . Schiff, Great Improvisation, 247.
15 . WWR, 329. Letter to Henry Laurens, November 14,
1778.
1 6 . Ibid., 330.
17. Ibid., 328.
1 8 . Ibid.
1 9 . Morgan, Genius of George Washington, 15.
2 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:330.
2 1 . PWR, 18:521.
2 2 . WWF, 13:336. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
November 26, 1778.
2 3 . Schiff, Great Improvisation, 195.
2 4 . WWF, 13:383. Letter to President Joseph Reed,
December 12, 1778.
2 5 . Ibid., 13:348. Letter to President Joseph Reed,
November 27, 1778.
2 6 . Stahr, John Jay, 109.
2 7. Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew
Him, 73.
2 8 . Golway, Washington’s General, 197.
2 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:336.
3 0 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 291.
3 1 . WWF, 13:385. Letter to President Joseph Reed,
December 12, 1778.
3 2 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 75.
3 3 . Thompson, “ ‘As If I had Been a Very Great Somebody.’”
3 4 . Golway, Washington’s General, 196.
3 5 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 154.
3 6 . WWF, 14:27. Letter to the Committee of Conference,
January 20, 1779.
3 7. Wiencek, Imperfect God, 223.
3 8 . Ibid.
3 9 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 188.
4 0 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 224.
4 1 . WWR, 1102.
4 2 . WWF, 20:341. Letter to Lieutenant Colonel John
Laurens, November 12, 1780.
43 . WWR, 338. Letter to Henry Laurens, March 20, 1779.
4 4 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 232.
4 5 . WWF, 24:421. Letter to Lieutenant Colonel John
Laurens, July 10, 1782.
4 6 . PWC, 10:330. Letter to Edward Montagu, April 5, 1775.
47. WWR, 335. Letter to Lund Washington, February 24,
1779.
Chapter Thirty: The Storm Thickens
1 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:323.
2 . WWR, 540. Letter to James Duane, September 7, 1783.
3 . PWR, 18:166. Letter to Brigadier General Edward Hand,
November 16, 1778.

83 8

r! Notes

4 . Grant, John Adams, 163.
5 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 75.
6 . WWF, 14:199. Letter to Major General Horatio Gates,
March 6, 1779.
7. Ibid., 14:484. Letter to the President of Congress, May
3, 1779.
8 . WWR, 350. “Speech to the Delaware Chiefs,” May 12, 1779.
9 . Ibid.
1 0 . Ibid, 351.
1 1 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 182.
1 2 . WWF, 15:189. Letter to Major General John Sullivan,
May 31, 1779.
13 . WWR, 365. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette,
September 30, 1779.
1 4 . Ibid.
15 . WWF, 17:465. Letter to Philip Schuyler, January 30,
1780.
1 6 . Lengel, General George Washington, 307.
17. Grizzard, George!, 341–42.
1 8 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:229.
1 9 . PWP, 10:74. “Memorandum on General Ofﬁcers,”
March 9, 1792.
2 0 . Wood, Empire of Liberty, 130.
2 1 . Grizzard, George!, 344.
2 2 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 47.
2 3 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 413.
2 4 . WWF, 15:447. Letter to the President of Congress, July
21, 1779.
2 5 . WWR, 363. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette,
September 30, 1779.
2 6 . Ibid., 374. Letter to Joseph Reed, May 28, 1780.
2 7. Unger, Lafayette, 104.
2 8 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 75.
2 9 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew
Him, 75.
3 0 . Ibid., 74.
3 1 . Ibid., 75.
3 2 . Ibid.
3 3 . WWR, 362–63. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette,
September 30, 1779.
3 4 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew
Him, 75.
3 5 . Ibid.
3 6 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 76.
3 7. Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew
Him, 77.
3 8 . WWR, 361–63. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette,
September 30, 1779.
3 9 . Ibid., 361.
4 0 . Ibid., 366.
4 1 . Ibid.
4 2 . Ibid.
43 . WWF, 16:274. Letter to Count d’Estaing, September
13, 1779.
4 4 . Ibid., 17:91. Letter to John Parke Custis, November
10, 1779.
4 5 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 172.
4 6 . WWF, 17:423. Letter to Major General Nathanael
Greene, January 22, 1780.
47. Stahr, John Jay, 105.
4 8 . WWF, 13:21. Letter to Gouverneur Morris, October
4, 1778.
4 9 . Ibid., 14:432. Letter to Burwell Bassett, April 22, 1779.
5 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:359.

5 1 . WWF, 17:315. Letter to Philip Schuyler, December 25,
1779.
5 2 . Ibid., 17:293. Letter to Governor William Livingston,
December 21, 1779.
5 3 . Ibid., 17:272. Letter to John Jay, December 15, 1779.
5 4 . Golway, Washington’s General, 212.
5 5 . WWF, 17:460. “General Orders,” January 28, 1780.
5 6 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 8.
5 7. Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 127.
5 8 . Freeman, George Washington, 5:144.
5 9 . Ibid., 5:156.
6 0 . Grant, John Adams, 228.
6 1 . Thompson, Memorandum for the Martha Washington
Anniversary Committee, 7.
6 2 . WWF, 18:453. Letter to Joseph Jones, May 31, 1780.
63 . Ibid.
6 4 . Ibid., 18:436. Letter to President Joseph Reed, May
28, 1780.
6 5 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:356.
6 6 . Ibid., 2:357.
67. Ibid.
6 8 . Brady, Martha Washington, 134.
6 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:357.
7 0 . Ibid.
7 1 . WWR, 380. Letter to John Augustine Washington, July
6, 1780.
Chapter Thirty-one: The Traitor
1 . Grizzard, George!, 201.
2 . WWF, 18:164. “Council of War,” March 27, 1780.
3 . Diaries, 6:130–31.
4 . WWF, 18:509. Letter to Governor Jonathan Trumbull,
Sr., June 11, 1780.
5 . Unger, Lafayette, 111.
6 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 133.
7. WWF, 19:36. Letter to the President of Congress, June
20, 1780.
8 . Ibid., 19:131. Letter to Fielding Lewis, July 6, 1780.
9 . Ibid., 19:481–82. Letter to Samuel Washington, August
31, 1780.
1 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:365.
1 1 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 138.
1 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:366.
13 . Stahr, John Jay, 110.
1 4 . WWF, 14:385. Letter to John Jay, April 14, 1779.
15 . Hochschild, Bury the Chains, 184.
1 6 . Ibid.
17. Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 138.
1 8 . WWF, 20:50. Letter to the President of Congress,
September 15, 1780.
1 9 . Golway, Washington’s General, 183.
2 0 . Ibid., 140.
2 1 . Ibid., 182.
2 2 . Ibid., 183.
2 3 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 165.
2 4 . WWF, 20:238. “Instructions to Major General
Nathanael Greene,” October 22, 1780.
2 5 . Golway, Washington’s General, 242.
2 6 . WWF, 19:236. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, July
22, 1780.
2 7. Ibid., 19:403. Letter to the President of Congress,
August 20, 1780.
2 8 . Ibid., 19:405.
2 9 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 141.

Notes r! 839
3 0 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew
Him, 63.
3 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:371.
3 2 . Ibid., 2:371–72.
3 3 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 354.
3 4 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew
Him, 40.
3 5 . WWR, 390. Letter to John Cadwalader, October 5, 1780.
3 6 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 397.
3 7. Wetherell, “On the Trail of Benedict Arnold.”
3 8 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 212.
3 9 . Ibid., 249.
4 0 . Ibid., 301.
4 1 . Ibid., 321.
4 2 . PWCF, 4:175.
43 . Ibid.
4 4 . Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 326.
4 5 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:383.
4 6 . Cooper, “Out of the Spy’s Stocking and into the
Wash,” New York Times, September 8, 2005.
47. Palmer, George Washington and Benedict Arnold, 361.
4 8 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:384.
4 9 . Ibid., 2:386.
5 0 . Ibid.
5 1 . Ibid., 2:388.
5 2 . Ibid. 2:389.
5 3 . Ibid.
5 4 . Ibid., 2:390.
5 5 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 142.
5 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:388.
5 7. WWF, 20:95. “General Orders,” September 26, 1780.
5 8 . WWR, 392. Letter to John Laurens, October 13, 1780.
5 9 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 141.
6 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:390.
6 1 . Ibid.
6 2 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 143.
63 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:387.
6 4 . WWF, 20:87. Letter to Lieutenant Colonel John
Jameson, September 25, 1780.
6 5 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 66.
6 6 . Ibid., 67.
67. Flexner, George Washington, 2:394.
6 8 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 144.
6 9 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 68.
7 0 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 73.
7 1 . Ibid.
7 2 . Ibid.
7 3 . Unger, Lafayette, 125.
74 . WWR, 392. Letter to John Laurens, October 13, 1780.
7 5 . WWF, 20:95. “General Orders,” September 26, 1780.
7 6 . Ibid., 20:151. Letter to Count de Rochambeau, October
10, 1780.
7 7. WWR, 393. Letter to John Laurens, October 13, 1780.
7 8 . WWF, 20:223. Letter to Major Henry Lee, October
20, 1780.
7 9 . Ibid., 21:255. “Instructions to Marquis de Lafayette,”
February 20, 1781.
8 0 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 37.
Chapter Thirty-two: Mutiny
1 . WWF, 20:303. “General Orders,” November 6, 1780.
2 . Ibid., 20:314. Letter to the President of Congress,
November 7, 1780.
3 . Freeman, George Washington, 5:232.

4 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:398.
5 . WWF, 20:431. “Plan for Attack on New York,” November
1780.
6 . Ibid., 21:62. “Circular to the New England States,”
January 5, 1781.
7. Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 150.
8 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 99.
9 . WWF, 22:191. Letter to Brigadier General Anthony
Wayne, June 9, 1781.
1 0 . WWR, 414. Letter to Robert Howe at West Point,
January 22, 1781.
1 1 . WWF, 21:136. Letter to the President of Congress,
January 23, 1781.
1 2 . Nelson, Thomas Paine, 157.
13 . WWR, 409. Letter to John Laurens, January 15, 1781.
1 4 . Grant, John Adams, 267.
15 . WWF, 21:181. Letter to John Sullivan, February 4, 1781.
1 6 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 151.
17. Ibid.
1 8 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:411.
1 9 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 152.
2 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:412.
2 1 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 152.
2 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:412.
2 3 . Ibid.
2 4 . Ibid.
2 5 . WWF, 21:491. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, April
22, 1781.
2 6 . Ibid., 22:3. Letter to Lieutenant Colonel Alexander
Hamilton, April 27, 1781.
2 7. Ibid.
2 8 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 34.
2 9 . Ibid., 47.
3 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:494.
3 1 . Ibid.
3 2 . WWF, 21:411. Letter to the President of Congress, April
4, 1781.
3 3 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:427.
3 4 . Higginbotham, George Washington Reconsidered, 280.
3 5 . Ramsay, Life of George Washington, 2.
3 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:417.
3 7. Freeman, George Washington, 5:491.
3 8 . MTV. “Early Descriptions Ante 1800.” Reminiscence of
Ludwig Baron von Closen.
3 9 . WWF, 21:341. Letter from Benjamin Harrison,
February 25, 1781.
4 0 . Ibid., 21:341–42. Letter to Benjamin Harrison, March
21, 1781.
Chapter Thirty-three: Plundering Scoundrels
1 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 241.
2 . Golway, Washington’s General, 260.
3 . Middlekauff, Glorious Cause, 494.
4 . WWF, 21:470–71. Letter to Nathanael Greene, April
18, 1781.
5 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:421.
6 . Ibid.
7. Ibid.
8 . WWF, 21:332. Letter to the Reverend William Gordon,
March 9, 1781.
9 . Ibid., 21:386. Letter to Lund Washington, March 28,
1781.
1 0 . Freeman, George Washington, 5:282–83.
1 1 . WWR, 420. Letter to Lund Washington, April 30, 1781.

840

r! Notes

1 2 . Ibid.
13 . Ibid., 421.
1 4 . WWR, 422. “Journal of the Yorktown Campaign,” n.d.
15 . WWF, 21:378. Letter to Major General John
Armstrong, March 26, 1781.
1 6 . Unger, Lafayette, 134.
17. Flexner, George Washington, 2:429.
1 8 . Ibid., 2:399.
1 9 . Ibid., 2:429–30.
2 0 . WWR, 402. Letter to Benjamin Franklin, December
20, 1780.
2 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:402.
2 2 . Ibid.
2 3 . Ibid., 2:399.
2 4 . Ibid.
2 5 . Ibid.
2 6 . Ibid., 2:401.
2 7. Ibid., 2:431.
2 8 . WWR, 429. “Journal of Yorktown Campaign,” May
31, 1781.
2 9 . DiariesA, 214.
3 0 . WWF, 22:171. Letter to Count de Rochambeau, June
7, 1781.
3 1 . Ibid., 22:208. Letter to Count de Rochambeau, June
13, 1781.
3 2 . PWCF, 6:415. Letter to Noah Webster, July 31, 1788.
3 3 . Ibid., 6:414.
3 4 . Ibid., 6:415.
3 5 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:434–35.
3 6 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 14.
3 7. Ibid., 146.
3 8 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew
Him, 65.
3 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:435.
4 0 . WWR, 440. “Journal of Yorktown Campaign,” July
18, 1781.
4 1 . WWF, 22:396. “Conference at Dobbs Ferry,” July 19,
1781.
4 2 . WWR, 442. “Journal of the Yorktown Campaign,”
July 20, 1781.
43 . WWF, 22:401. Letter to the Count de Grasse, July 21,
1781.
4 4 . Ibid., 22:402.
Chapter Thirty-four: The World Turned Upside
Down
1 . WWF, 22:450. Letter to Robert Morris, August 2, 1781.
2 . Ibid., 22:457. Letter to the Count de Barras, August 3, 1781.
3 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew
Him, 69.
4 . Ibid., 68.
5 . WWR, 451. “Journal of Yorktown Campaign,” August
14, 1781.
6 . Morgan, Genius of George Washington, 8.
7. Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 159.
8 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 415.
9 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 162.
1 0 . Gaines, For Liberty and Glory, 157.
1 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:443.
1 2 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 35.
13 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew
Him, 42.
1 4 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 16.
15 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 250.

1 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:446.
17. MTV. “Early Descriptions Ante 1800.”
1 8 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew
Him, 67.
1 9 . MTV. “Early Descriptions Ante 1800.”
2 0 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 135.
2 1 . DiariesA, 232.
2 2 . Ibid.
2 3 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 186.
2 4 . Ibid.
2 5 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:449.
2 6 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 180.
2 7. Ibid., 209.
2 8 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:449.
2 9 . Ibid.
3 0 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 349.
3 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:451.
3 2 . Ibid.
3 3 . Ibid., 2:452.
3 4 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 208.
3 5 . Unger, Lafayette, 153.
3 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:454.
3 7. Freeman, George Washington, 5:356.
3 8 . DiariesA, 243.
3 9 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 227.
4 0 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 185.
4 1 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 235.
4 2 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 45.
43 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 245.
4 4 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:456.
4 5 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 72.
4 6 . WWR, 459.
47. Callahan, Henry Knox, 176.
4 8 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 194.
4 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:457.
5 0 . Hague, William Pitt the Younger, 67.
5 1 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 187.
5 2 . Stephenson, Patriot Battles, 352.
5 3 . Martin, Private Yankee Doodle, 241.
5 4 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 187.
5 5 . Freeman, George Washington, 5:377.
5 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:458.
5 7. WWR, 464. Letter to Charles Cornwallis, October 17,
1781.
5 8 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 242.
5 9 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 247.
6 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:460.
6 1 . DiariesA, 240.
6 2 . WWR, 464. Letter to Thomas McKean, October 19,
1781.
63 . Ibid., 468. Letter to Thomas McKean, November 15,
1781.
6 4 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 188.
6 5 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:469.
6 6 . Unger, Lafayette, 162.
67. Ibid., 164.
6 8 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 138.
6 9 . Thompson, “In the Hands of a Good Providence,” 116.
7 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:471.
7 1 . PWRT, 4:489. “George Washington’s Last Will and
Testament,” July 9, 1799.
7 2 . Brady, George Washington’s Beautiful Nelly, 21.
7 3 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:446.
74 . Ibid., 471.

Notes r! 84 1
7 5 . Ibid.
7 6 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 558.
7 7. Henriques, “Saint or Shrew?”
7 8 . Felder, Fielding Lewis and Washington Family, 295.
7 9 . Conkling, Memoirs of Mother and Wife of Washington, 51.
Chapter Thirty-ﬁve: Man of Moderation
1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:474.
2 . WWF, 24:495–96. Letter to Chevalier de Chastellux,
August 10, 1782.
3 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:475.
4 . WWF, 24:271. Letter to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs,
May 22, 1782.
5 . Ibid., 24:91. Letter to Colonel Matthias Ogden, March
28, 1782.
6 . Ibid.
7. Wood, “The Making of a Disaster.”
8 . Grizzard, George Washington, 18.
9 . Ibid.
1 0 . Ibid., 19.
1 1 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 193.
1 2 . WWF, 24:307. Letter to Brigadier General Elias
Dayton, June 4, 1782.
13 . Isaacson, Benjamin Franklin, 413.
1 4 . WWF, 24:313–14. “The Address of the Commander in
Chief . . . on the Banks of the Hudson, June 5, 1782.”
15 . Ibid., 24:273. Letter from Colonel Lewis Nicola, May
22, 1782.
1 6 . WWR, 468–69. Letter to Colonel Lewis Nicola, May
22, 1782.
17. Ibid.
1 8 . WWF, 25:37. Letter to the Reverend William Smith,
August 18, 1782.
1 9 . Ibid., 25:151. Letter to James McHenry, September 12,
1782.
2 0 . Ibid., 25:176. Letter to Thomas Paine, September 18,
1782.
2 1 . Ibid., 25:273. Letter to Benjamin Franklin, October
18, 1782.
2 2 . Ibid., 25:142. “General Orders,” September 9, 1782.
2 3 . Ibid., 25:179. “General Orders,” September 18, 1782.
2 4 . Ibid., 25:303. “General Orders,” October 28, 1782.
2 5 . Ibid., 24:488. “General Orders,” August 7, 1782.
2 6 . Ibid., 25:281. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette,
October 20, 1782.
2 7. WWR, 484. Letter to Nathanael Greene, February 6, 1783.
2 8 . WWF, 22:497. Letter to George Walton and Richard
Howley, August 13, 1781.
2 9 . WWR, 479. Letter to Joseph Jones, December 14, 1782.
3 0 . WWF, 25:270. Letter to James McHenry, October 17,
1782.
3 1 . WWR, 481. Letter to Tench Tilghman, January 10, 1783.
3 2 . WWF, 26:97. Letter to Major General William Heath,
February 5, 1783.
3 3 . Ibid., 26:26. Letter to Major General John Armstrong,
January 10, 1783.
3 4 . Ibid., 25:465. Letter to Colonel Timothy Pickering,
December 25, 1782.
3 5 . WWR, 473. Letter to Benjamin Lincoln, October 7, 1782.
3 6 . WWF, 25:227. Letter to the Secretary at War, October
2, 1782.
3 7. Ibid., 26:42. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
January 16, 1783.

3 8 . Ibid., 26:43.
3 9 . Ibid., 26:44.
4 0 . Ibid.
4 1 . Ibid., 26:137. Letter to David Rittenhouse, February
16, 1783.
4 2 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 176.
43 . Ibid., 177.
4 4 . Ibid.
4 5 . WWR, 488. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, March 4,
1783.
4 6 . Ibid., 489.
47. Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 179.
4 8 . WWR, 1108.
4 9 . Ibid.
5 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:503.
5 1 . WWR, 490. “General Orders,” March 11, 1783.
5 2 . Ibid., 492. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, March 12, 1783.
5 3 . WWF, 26:229.
5 4 . WWR, 497. “Speech to the Ofﬁcers of the Army,”
March 15, 1783.
5 5 . Ibid., 498.
5 6 . Ibid., 500.
5 7. Ibid.
5 8 . Freeman, George Washington, 5:435.
5 9 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 45.
6 0 . WWR, 501. Letter to Joseph Jones, March 18, 1783.
6 1 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 78.
6 2 . Ibid., 215.
Chapter Thirty-six: Closing the Drama with
Applause
1 . Thompson, Statements Regarding the Physical
Appearance, 32.
2 . Flexner, George Washington, 1:192.
3 . Ibid, 2:432.
4 . Ibid., 2:499.
5 . Brown, “The Antiquities of Dental Prothesis,” Dental
Cosmos, November 1934.
6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:500.
7. Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 154.
8 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 163.
9 . WWR, 513. “General Orders,” April 18, 1783.
1 0 . Ibid.
1 1 . Ibid.
1 2 . WWF, 26:274. Letter to Theodorick Bland, March 31,
1783.
13 . Ibid., 26:370. Letter to Governor Benjamin Harrison,
April 30, 1783.
1 4 . Ibid., 26:364. Letter to Daniel Parker, April 28, 1783.
15 . Hochschild, Bury the Chains, 102.
1 6 . WWF, 26:402. “Substance of a Conference between
General Washington and Sir Guy Carleton,” May 6, 1783.
17. Hochschild, Bury the Chains, 102.
1 8 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 257.
1 9 . Hochschild, Bury the Chains, 102.
2 0 . WWF, 26:404. “Substance of a Conference between
General Washington and Sir Guy Carleton,” May 6, 1783.
2 1 . Hochschild, Bury the Chains, 104.
2 2 . Ibid., 102.
2 3 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 256.
2 4 . WWR, 505. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, March 31,
1783.
2 5 . Ibid., 509. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, April
5, 1783.

84 2

r! Notes

2 6 . Ibid., 516. “Circular to State Governments,” June 8, 1783.
2 7. Ibid., 516–17.
2 8 . Ibid., 517.
2 9 . Ibid., 517–18.
3 0 . Ibid., 518.
3 1 . Ibid., 520.
3 2 . Ibid., 526.
3 3 . Ibid.
3 4 . PWCF, 1:329. Letter to Henry Knox, September 23,
1783.
3 5 . WWF, 27:57. Letter to George William Fairfax, July
10, 1783.
3 6 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:517.
3 7. Ibid.
3 8 . PWCF, 1:2. Letter to Richard Varick, January 1, 1784.
3 9 . Brady, Martha Washington, 143.
4 0 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:519.
4 1 . Ibid.
4 2 . Nelson, Thomas Paine, 174.
43 . Ibid., 175.
Chapter Thirty-seven: Cincinnatus
1 . Schiff, Great Improvisation, 317.
2 . WWR, 543–44. “Farewell Address to the Armies of the
United States,” November 2, 1783.
3 . Ibid., 543.
4 . Brady, Martha Washington, 151.
5 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 34.
6 . Weintraub, General Washington’s Christmas Farewell, 22.
7. Flexner, George Washington, 2:478.
8 . Freeman, George Washington, 5:462–63.
9 . Weintraub, General Washington’s Christmas Farewell, 69.
1 0 . WWF, 27:254. Letter to Sir Guy Carleton, December
2, 1783.
1 1 . Ibid., 27:111. Letter to Samuel Fraunces, August 18, 1783.
1 2 . Weintraub, General Washington’s Christmas Farewell, 85.
13 . Ibid.
1 4 . Ibid.
15 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:524.
1 6 . Weintraub, General Washington’s Christmas Farewell, 86.
17. PWCF, 1:195.
1 8 . Ibid.
1 9 . Ibid., 1:196.
2 0 . Ibid.
2 1 . Weintraub, General Washington’s Christmas Farewell,
131.
2 2 . Ibid., 130.
2 3 . Ibid., 107.
2 4 . Ibid., 138.
2 5 . WWF, 27:285.
2 6 . Ibid., 27:286.
2 7. Ibid.
2 8 . Ibid., 27:283. Letter to Baron von Steuben, December
23, 1783.
2 9 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:526.
3 0 . WWR, 547. “Address to Congress on Resigning
Commission,” December 23, 1783.
3 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:526.
3 2 . WWR, 548. “Address to Congress on Resigning
Commission,” December 23, 1783.
3 3 . MTV. “Early Descriptions Ante 1800.” Letter from
Mary Ridout to Anne Tasker Ogle, June 16, 1784.
3 4 . Wood, Revolutionary Characters, 42.

3 5 . Weintraub, General Washington’s Christmas Farewell,
164.
3 6 . Kaminski, Great and Good Man, 28.
3 7. Evans, Genius of Gilbert Stuart, 141.
3 8 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 27.
Chapter Thirty-eight: American Celebrity
1 . PWCF, 1:88. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette,
February 1, 1784.
2 . Ibid., 88.
3 . Ibid., 1:138. Letter to Henry Knox, February 20, 1784.
4 . Ibid., 1:137–38.
5 . WWF, 27:287–88. Letter to Governor George Clinton,
December 28, 1783.
6 . PWCF, 1:87–89. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette,
February 1, 1784.
7. Ibid., 1:121.
8 . Ibid., 1:123. “To the Citizens of Fredericksburg,” ca.
February 14, 1784.
9 . WWR, 552. Letter to Benjamin Harrison, January 18,
1784.
1 0 . Ibid.
1 1 . Brady, Martha Washington, 147.
1 2 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 155.
13 . WWR, 578. Letter to Tench Tilghman, June 2, 1785.
1 4 . Thompson, “In the Hands of a Good Providence,” 9.
15 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 201.
1 6 . PWP, 6:547. Letter to Tobias Lear, October 10, 1790.
17. Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 200.
1 8 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 141.
1 9 . Thompson, Memorandum for the Martha Washington
Anniversary Committee, 11.
2 0 . Weintraub, General Washington’s Christmas, 172.
2 1 . PWCF, 3:296. Letter to Armand, October 7, 1785.
2 2 . Ibid., 1:161. Letter to Fielding Lewis, Jr., February 24,
1784.
2 3 . WWR, 555. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette,
February 1, 1784.
2 4 . PWCF, 2:253. Letter to Henry Knox, January 5, 1785.
2 5 . WWF, 27:2. Letter to Lund Washington, June 11, 1783.
2 6 . Diaries, 4:255.
2 7. Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 93.
2 8 . PWRT, 3:112. Letter to Mildred Thornton Washington,
October 18, 1798.
2 9 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew Him, 83.
3 0 . Diaries, 4:157. Diary entry for June 30, 1785.
3 1 . PWCF, 3:275. Letter to Benjamin Franklin, September
26, 1785.
3 2 . Schiff, Great Improvisation, 360.
3 3 . DiariesA, 300. Diary entry for March 19, 1786.
3 4 . MTV. “Early Descriptions Ante 1800.” Isaac Weld, Jr.,
ca. 1796.
3 5 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 27.
3 6 . Ibid., 28.
3 7. Ibid.
3 8 . Ibid.
3 9 . Ibid.
4 0 . Ibid., 31.
4 1 . Ibid.
4 2 . Cunliffe, George Washington, 161.
43 . Ibid.
4 4 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew Him, 86.
4 5 . MTV .“Early Descriptions Ante 1800.”

Notes r! 843
4 6 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 240.
47. Hervey, Memory of Washington, 88.
4 8 . PWCF, 3:381. Letter to Elizabeth French Dulany,
November 23, 1785.
4 9 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 47.
5 0 . Thompson, “In the Hands of a Good Providence,” 80.
5 1 . PWCF, 3:63. Letter to Henry Knox, June 18, 1785.
5 2 . Ibid., 31:71. Letter to Richard Henry Lee, June 22, 1785.
5 3 . DiariesA, 280. Diary entry for June 8, 1785.
5 4 . WWR, 680. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, May
28, 1788.
5 5 . Ibid., 680–81.
5 6 . Ibid., 681.
5 7. WWF, 27:238. Letter to Lieutenant Bezaleel Howe,
November 9, 1783.
5 8 . PWCF, 1:235. Letter to James Craik, March 25, 1784.
5 9 . Ibid., 1:178.
6 0 . Ibid., 2:415. Letter to John Witherspoon, March 8, 1785.
6 1 . Ibid.
6 2 . Ibid., 2:332. Letter to Richard Henry Lee, February
8, 1785.
63 . Ibid., 2:253. Letter to Henry Knox, January 5, 1785.
6 4 . Ibid.
6 5 . Grizzard, George!, 154.
6 6 . WWR, 580. Letter to David Humphreys, July 25, 1785.
67. Ibid.
6 8 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 54.
6 9 . WWR, 579–80. Letter to David Humphreys, July 25,
1785.
7 0 . PWCF, 3:547. Letter to Benjamin Lincoln, February
6, 1786.
7 1 . Brady, Martha Washington, 151.
Chapter Thirty-nine: Gentleman Farmer
1 . Diaries, 4:184. Diary entry for August 18, 1785.
2 . WWF, 27: 305. Letter to Clement Biddle, January 17, 1784.
3 . DiariesA, 275.
4 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 34.
5 . Ibid., 52.
6 . WWF, 27:298. Letter to Samuel Vaughan, January 14,
1784.
7. Freeman, George Washington, 6:44.
8 . Ibid.
9 . Maclay, Diary of William Maclay, 258.
1 0 . WWF, 21:248. Letter to James Duane, February 19,
1781.
1 1 . Weintraub, General Washington’s Christmas Farewell,
115.
1 2 . DiariesA, 250. Diary entry for September 12, 1784.
13 . PWCF, 2:78. Letter to Thomas Freeman, September
23, 1784.
1 4 . Ibid., 2:119. Letter to Jacob Read, November 3,1784.
15 . DiariesA, 252.
1 6 . Unger, Lafayette, 260.
17. DiariesA, 251. Diary entry for September 14, 1784.
1 8 . Ibid., 254.
1 9 . Ibid., 265. Diary entry for October 4, 1784.
2 0 . Ibid.
2 1 . PWCF, 6:111. Letter to Alexander Spotswood, February
13, 1788.
2 2 . Jackman, “Young Englishman Reports.”
2 3 . PWCF, 3:90. Letter to George William Fairfax, June
30, 1785.

2 4 . DiariesA, xvii.
2 5 . PWP, 1:161. Letter to Arthur Young, December 4, 1788.
2 6 . Ibid.
2 7. Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 171.
Chapter forty: Devil’s Bargain
1 . Hochschild, Bury the Chains, 156.
2 . Ibid.
3 . WWR, 1110. Letter from the Marquis de Lafayette,
February 5, 1783.
4 . Ibid.
5 . Unger, Lafayette, 173.
6 . Ibid., 174.
7. PWCF, 1:27. Letter from the Marquis de Lafayette,
January 10, 1784.
8 . Ibid., 2:72. Letter from La Luzerne, September 12, 1784.
9 . Ibid., 2:172. Letter to La Luzerne, December 5, 1784.
1 0 . Ibid., 1:258. Letter to Adrienne, Marquise de Lafayette,
April 4, 1784.
1 1 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 157.
1 2 . PWCF, 1:189. Letter from the Marquis de Lafayette,
March 9, 1784.
13 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 159.
1 4 . PWCF, 2:64. Letter from William Gordon, August
30, 1784.
15 . Unger, Lafayette, 198.
1 6 . Ibid.
17. Ibid., 200.
1 8 . PWCF, 2:175. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette,
December 8, 1784.
1 9 . Ibid., 4:43. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, May
10, 1786.
2 0 . Ibid., 4:44.
2 1 . Higginbotham, George Washington Reconsidered, 122.
2 2 . PWCF, 3:356. Letter from James Madison, November
11, 1785.
2 3 . DiariesA, 301.
2 4 . WWR, 593. Letter to Robert Morris, April 12, 1786.
2 5 . Ibid., 593–94.
2 6 . Ibid., 594.
2 7. WWR, 607. Letter to John Francis Mercer, September
9, 1786.
2 8 . Ibid., 608.
2 9 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 316.
3 0 . PWCF, 4:465. Letter to John Francis Mercer,
December 19, 1786.
3 1 . Ibid., 5:2. Letter to John Francis Mercer, February 1,
1787.
3 2 . Ibid., 5:10. Letter to Henry Lee, Jr., February 4, 1787.
3 3 . WWR, 701–2.
3 4 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 148.
3 5 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 68.
3 6 . DiariesA, 313.
3 7. Diaries, 4:277. Diary entry for February 17, 1786.
3 8 . PWCF, 2:14. Letter to Clement Biddle, July 28, 1784.
3 9 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 349.
4 0 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 148.
4 1 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 120.
4 2 . PWCF, 6:88. Letter to Henry Knox, February 5, 1788.
43 . Diaries, 5:260. Diary entries for January 3 and 4, 1788.
4 4 . PWCF, 6:88. Letter to Henry Knox, February 5, 1788.
4 5 . Diaries, 5:273. Diary entry for February 6, 1788.
4 6 . Ibid.

84 4

r! Notes

47. Diaries, 4:259. Diary entry for January 4, 1786.
Chapter Forty-one: The Ruins of the Past
1 . PWCF, 6:502. Letter to William Barton, September 7,
1788.
2 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:513.
3 . Isaacson, Benjamin Franklin, 422.
4 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 222.
5 . PWCF, 1:142–43. Letter from Henry Knox, February
21, 1784.
6 . Ibid., 1:190. Letter from the Marquis de Lafayette,
March 9, 1784.
7. Ibid., 1:260. Letter to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., April 4,
1784.
8 . Ibid., 1:288–89. Letter from Thomas Jefferson, April
16, 1784.
9 . Ibid., 6:502. Letter to William Barton, September 7,
1788.
1 0 . Ibid., 1:330. “Observations on the Institution of the
Society,” ca. May 4, 1784.
1 1 . Wills, Cincinnatus, 144.
1 2 . PWCF, 4:378. Letter to Theodorick Bland, November
18, 1786.
13 . Ibid., 3:213. Letter to Arthur St. Clair, August 31, 1785.
1 4 . WWF, 24:497. Letter to Elkanah Watson, August 10,
1782.
15 . McCammant, George Washington the Mason, 5.
1 6 . PWCF, 2:233. Letter to James Madison, December 28,
1784.
17. Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 164.
1 8 . WWR, 569. Letter to Richard Henry Lee, December
14, 1784.
1 9 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 24.
2 0 . Ibid., 25.
2 1 . WWR, 571. Letter to Benjamin Harrison, January 22,
1785.
2 2 . Ibid.
2 3 . Ibid., 572.
2 4 . PWCF, 2:399. Letter to Henry Knox, February 28, 1785.
2 5 . Ibid., 2:163. Letter to Edmund Randolph, July 30, 1785.
2 6 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 28–29.
2 7. PWCF, 6:491. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, August 31,
1788.
2 8 . PWR, 14:140. Letter to George William Fairfax, March
11, 1778.
2 9 . Ibid., 16:235. Letter from George William Fairfax,
August 3, 1778.
3 0 . WWR, 573–74. Letter to George William Fairfax,
February 27, 1785.
3 1 . PWCF, 3:78. Letter from George William Fairfax, June
23, 1785.
3 2 . Ibid., 4:127. Letter to George William Fairfax, June
25, 1786.
3 3 . WWR, 542. Letter to Lund Washington, September
20, 1783.
3 4 . PWCF, 3:374. Letter to Lund Washington, November
20, 1785.
3 5 . WWF, 26:29. Letter to Lieutenant Colonel Tench
Tilghman, January 10, 1783.
3 6 . WWR, 602. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, August 1, 1786.
3 7. PWCF, 2:60. Letter from Nathanael Greene, August
29, 1784.
3 8 . Ibid., 2:59.
3 9 . Ibid.

4 0 . Ibid., 4:283. Letter from Jeremiah Wadsworth,
October 1, 1786.
4 1 . Golway, Washington’s General, 314.
Chapter Forty-two: A Masterly Hand
1 . PWCF, 1:8. Letter to Solms, January 3, 1784.
2 . Ibid.
3 . Weintraub, General Washington’s Christmas Farewell, 125.
4 . PWCF, 2:52. Letter from George William Fairfax,
August 23, 1784.
5 . Ibid., 2:53.
6 . WWR, 576. Letter to Francis Hopkinson, May 16, 1785.
7. PWCF, 1:387.
8 . Ibid.
9 . PWCF, 2:177. Letter from Thomas Jefferson, December
10, 1884.
1 0 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 120.
1 1 . PWCF, 3:112. Letter from Thomas Jefferson, July 10, 1785.
1 2 . Ibid., 3:279. Letter to Jean-Antoine Houdon,
September 26, 1785.
13 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 120.
1 4 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 3.
15 . PWCF, 3:344. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette,
November 8, 1785.
1 6 . WWR, 601. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, August 1, 1786.
17. Ellis, His Excellency: George Washington, 169.
1 8 . WWR, 588. Letter to James McHenry, August 22, 1785.
1 9 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 222.
2 0 . PWCF, 3:423. Letter to David Stuart, November 30,
1785.
2 1 . Ibid., 4:216. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, August
15, 1786.
2 2 . WWR, 606. Letter to John Jay, August 15, 1786.
2 3 . Ibid., 621. Letter to James Madison, November 5, 1786.
2 4 . Ibid., 588. Letter to James McHenry, August 22, 1785.
2 5 . Ibid., 606–7. Letter to John Jay, August 15, 1786.
2 6 . Ibid., 601. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, August 1, 1786.
2 7. PWCF, 4:56. Letter to John Jay, May 18, 1786.
2 8 . Ibid., 4:169. Letter to William Grayson, July 26, 1786.
2 9 . WWR, 4:605. Letter to John Jay, August 15, 1786.
3 0 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 174.
3 1 . Adams, Life and Writings of Jared Sparks, 1:567.
3 2 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 223.
3 3 . WWR, 1114.
3 4 . PWCF, 4:295. Letter from Henry Lee, Jr., October 17,
1786.
3 5 . Ibid., 4:297. Letter to David Humphreys, October 22,
1786.
3 6 . Ibid.
3 7. Ibid., 4:300. Letter from Henry Knox, October 23, 1786.
3 8 . Ibid., 4:325. Letter from David Humphreys, November
1, 1786.
3 9 . Ibid., 4:332. Letter to James Madison, November 5, 1786.
4 0 . WWR, 631. Letter to David Humphreys, December
26, 1786.
4 1 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 242.
Chapter Forty-three: A House on Fire
1 . WWR, 705. “Fragments of a Draft of the First Inaugural
Address,” January 1789.
2 . PWCF, 4:316. Letter to the Society of the Cincinnati,
October 31, 1786.
3 . WWR, 623. Letter to James Madison, November 18,
1786.

Notes r! 845
4 . Ibid., 645. Letter to Edmund Randolph, March 28,
1787.
5 . Freeman, George Washington, 6:62.
6 . DiariesA, 313. Diary entry for January 10, 1787.
7. WWR, 624. Letter to James Madison, November 18, 1786.
8 . PWCF, 4:448. Letter from James Madison, December
7, 1786.
9 . WWR, 624. Letter to James Madison, December 16,
1786.
1 0 . PWCF, 4:474–75. Letter from James Madison,
December 24, 1786.
1 1 . WWR, 644. Letter to John Jay, March 10, 1787.
1 2 . Higginbotham, George Washington Reconsidered, 276.
13 . WWR, 633. Letter to David Humphreys, December
26, 1786.
1 4 . PWCF, 4:529. Letter from David Humphreys, January
20, 1787.
15 . Stahr, John Jay, 242.
1 6 . WWR, 635. Letter to Henry Knox, February 3, 1787.
17. Freeman, Washington, 537.
1 8 . PWCF, 5:52. Letter to Henry Knox, February 25, 1787.
1 9 . WWR, 642. Letter to Henry Knox, March 8, 1787.
2 0 . PWCF, 5:96. Letter from Henry Knox, March 19, 1787.
2 1 . Ibid., 5:97
2 2 . WWR, 645. Letter to Edmund Randolph, March 28,
1787.
2 3 . Ibid.
2 4 . Wood, Revolutionary Characters, 45.
2 5 . PWCF, 5:119. Letter to Henry Knox, April 2, 1787.
2 6 . Ibid., 5:36.
2 7. Ibid.
2 8 . Conkling, Memoirs of Mother and Wife of Washington,
57.
2 9 . PWCF, 5:33. Letter to Mary Ball Washington, February
15, 1787.
3 0 . Ibid., 5:34.
3 1 . Ibid., 5:35.
3 2 . Freeman, Washington, 558.
3 3 . PWCF, 5:157. Letter to Henry Knox, April 27, 1787.
3 4 . Ibid., 5:171. Letter to Robert Morris, May 5, 1787.
3 5 . Ibid.
3 6 . Ibid., 158.
3 7. Ibid., 171. Letter to Robert Morris, May 5, 1787.
3 8 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 265.
3 9 . Kaminski and McCaughan, Great and Good Man, 83.
4 0 . WWR, 413. Letter to Sarah Bache, January 15, 1781.
4 1 . Schiff, A Great Improvisation, 359.
4 2 . PWCF, 5:189. Letter to George Augustine Washington,
May 17, 1787.
43 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 178.
4 4 . PWCF, 5:186.
4 5 . DiariesA, 315. Diary entry for May 18, 1787.
4 6 . Ibid., 316. Diary entry for May 23, 1787.
47. Maxey, Portrait of Elizabeth Willing Powel, 26.
4 8 . Ibid., 21.
4 9 . WWR, 224. Letter to John Augustine Washington,
May 31, 1776.
5 0 . DiariesA, 315.
5 1 . Isaacson, Benjamin Franklin, 446.
5 2 . DiariesA, 317.
5 3 . WWR, 708. “Fragments of a Draft of the First
Inaugural Address,” ca. January 1789.
5 4 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 37.
5 5 . Wills, Cincinnatus, 107.

5 6 . PWCF, 5:208. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, May 30,
1787.
5 7. Morgan, Genius of George Washington, 5.
5 8 . Kaminski and McCaughan, Great and Good Man, 87.
5 9 . PWCF, 5:219.
Chapter Forty-four: Rising Sun
1 . PWCF, 5:219. Letter to George Augustine Washington,
June 3, 1787.
2 . Ketcham, James Madison, 210.
3 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 235.
4 . Ibid., 236.
5 . WWR, 653. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, July 10, 1787.
6 . Diaries, 5:177. Diary entry for July 22, 1787.
7. Ibid., 5:179. Diary entry for July 31, 1787.
8 . Ibid.
9 . DiariesA, 324. Diary entry for August 19, 1787.
1 0 . Diaries, 5:172. Diary entry for June 30, 1787.
1 1 . PWCF, 5:269. Letter to Elizabeth Willing Powel, July
23, 1787.
1 2 . Ibid., 5:280. Letter to Elizabeth Willing Powel, July
30, 1787.
13 . Callahan, General Knox, 262.
1 4 . Higginbotham, George Washington Reconsidered, 124.
15 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 266.
1 6 . Wood, “Reading the Founders’ Minds.”
17. Morgan, “Problem of Slavery.”
1 8 . Ibid.
1 9 . Wood, Empire of Liberty, 73.
2 0 . Ibid., 119.
2 1 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 42.
2 2 . PWCF, 5:321. Letter to George Augustine Washington,
September 9, 1787.
2 3 . Ibid., 5:400. Letter from Gouverneur Morris, October
30, 1787.
2 4 . Monroe, View of the Conduct of the Executive, iv.
WWR, 800. Letter to Gouverneur Morris, January 28, 1792.
2 5 . WWR, 932. Letter to the House of Representatives,
March 30, 1796.
2 6 . Ibid., 668. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette,
February 7, 1788.
2 7. Ibid., 695. Letter to Edward Newenham, August 29, 1788.
2 8 . Ibid., 669. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette,
February 7, 1788.
2 9 . PWP, 2:245. Letter to Philip Schuyler, May 9, 1789.
3 0 . Fahim, “George Washington Letter Found in
Scrapbook.” New York Times, April 27, 2007.
3 1 . Maxey, Portrait of Elizabeth Willing Powel, 30.
3 2 . Ibid.
3 3 . Goldwin, From Parchment to Power, 34.
3 4 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 66.
3 5 . Goldwin, From Parchment to Power, 59.
3 6 . Cappon, Adams-Jefferson Letters, 196.
3 7. Van Doren, Benjamin Franklin, 753.
3 8 . PWCF, 5:331. Letter to the President of Congress,
September 17, 1787.
3 9 . Diaries, 5:186. Diary entry for September 19, 1787.
4 0 . DiariesA, 325. Diary entry for September 22, 1787.
4 1 . WWR, 671. Letter to John Armstrong, April 25, 1788.
4 2 . Ibid., 658. Letter to Henry Knox, October 15, 1787.
Chapter Forty-ﬁve: Mounting the Seat
1 . PWCF, 5:425.
2 . Ibid.

846

r! Notes

3 . Ibid., 5:399–400. Letter from Gouverneur Morris,
October 30, 1787.
4 . Van Doren, Benjamin Franklin, 756.
5 . Wills, Cincinnatus, 157.
6 . Ibid., 173.
7. PWCF, 6:448. Letter to Charles Pettit, August 16, 1788.
8 . WWR, 667. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, February
7, 1788.
9 . Ibid., 662. Letter to Bushrod Washington, November
9, 1787.
1 0 . MTV. “Early Descriptions Ante 1800.”
1 1 . PWCF, 5:383. Letter from James Madison, October
18, 1787.
1 2 . Ibid., 5:369–70.
13 . Ibid. Letter from Alexander Hamilton, October 11, 1787.
1 4 . Ibid., 5:380. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, October
18, 1787.
15 . WWR, 657. Letter to David Humphreys, October 10,
1787.
1 6 . PWCF, 5:426. Letter to Alexander Hamilton,
November 10, 1787.
17. WWR, 692. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, August 28,
1788.
1 8 . PWCF, 5:467. Letter to David Stuart, November 30,
1787.
1 9 . Ibid., 5:500. Letter from James Madison, December
20, 1787.
2 0 . Ibid., 6:150. Letter from Henry Knox, March 10, 1778.
2 1 . WWR, 667. Letter to Edmund Randolph, January 8,
1788.
2 2 . Ibid., 684. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, June
19, 1788.
2 3 . Ibid., 681–82. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, May
28, 1788.
2 4 . PWCF, 6:351. Letter to James Madison, June 23, 1788.
2 5 . Ibid., 6:339. Letter from James Madison, June 18, 1788.
2 6 . Ibid., 6:316. Letter from Bushrod Washington, June
7, 1788.
2 7. Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 45.
2 8 . DiariesA, 330.
2 9 . PWP, 10:631. Letter from Edmund Randolph, August
5, 1792.
3 0 . Ibid., 4:1. Letter to James Craik, September 8, 1789.
3 1 . Ibid.
3 2 . PWP, 10:351. “Madison’s Conversations with
Washington,” 5[–25] May 1792.
3 3 . WWR, 679. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, April
28, 1788.
3 4 . PWCF, 5:425.
3 5 . Kaminski and McCaughan, Great and Good Man, 39.
3 6 . WWR, 696–97. Letter to Alexander Hamilton,
October 3, 1788.
3 7. PWCF, 5:400. Letter from Gouverneur Morris,
October 30, 1787.
3 8 . Unger, Lafayette, 226.
3 9 . PWCF, 6:444. Letter from Alexander Hamilton,
August 13, 1788.
4 0 . WWR, 692. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, August
28, 1788.
4 1 . Ibid., 697. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, October 3,
1788.
4 2 . Ibid.
43 . PWP, 1:24. Letter from Alexander Hamilton,
September 1788.

4 4 . Ibid., 119. Letter from Alexander Hamilton, November
18, 1788.
4 5 . WWR, 671. Letter to John Armstrong, April 25, 1788.
4 6 . PWCF, 6:534. Letter to James Madison, September
23, 1788.
47. Ibid., 6:470. Letter from James Madison, August 24,
1788.
4 8 . PWP, 1:72. Letter to Benjamin Lincoln, October 26,
1788.
4 9 . Kaminski and McCaughan, Great and Good Man, 99.
5 0 . Ibid., 97.
5 1 . Cappon, Adams-Jefferson Letters, 202.
5 2 . PWP, 1:166. Letter from Gouverneur Morris,
December 6, 1788.
5 3 . PWCF, 6:531. Letter to Henry Lee, Jr., September 22,
1788.
5 4 . WWR, 717. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, January
29, 1789.
5 5 . Ibid., 697. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, October 3,
1788.
5 6 . PWP, 10:535. “Jefferson’s Conversation with
Washington,” July 10, 1792.
5 7. Ibid., 1:262. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, January
29, 1789.
5 8 . Ibid., 1:226. Letter to Henry Knox, January 1, 1789.
5 9 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 273.
6 0 . PWCF, 5:43. Letter to Bridget Kirk, February 20, 1787.
6 1 . Ibid., 5:173. Letter to Lund Washington, May 7, 1787.
6 2 . Ibid., 5:288. Letter to George Augustine Washington,
August 12, 1787.
63 . Ibid., 5:325. Letter to John Cannon, September 16,
1787.
6 4 . Ibid., 6:198. Letter to Charles Lee, April 4, 1788.
6 5 . Ibid.
6 6 . Ibid., 6:285. Letter to Thomas Lewis, May 19, 1788.
67. Ibid., 6:352–53. Letter to David Stuart, June 23, 1788.
6 8 . Ibid., 6:423. Letter to James Craik, August 4, 1788.
6 9 . PWP, 1:203. Letter to John Cannon, December 26,
1788.
7 0 . Ibid., 1:361–62. Letter to Richard Conway, March 4,
1789.
7 1 . Ibid., 1:368. Letter to Richard Conway, March 6, 1789.
7 2 . PWCF, 2:317. Letter to Robert Lewis & Sons, February
1, 1785.
7 3 . WWR, 724. Letter to Thomas Green, March 31, 1789.
74 . Ibid., 725.
Chapter Forty-six: The Place of Execution
1 . PWP, 2:2. Letter to Henry Knox, April 1, 1789.
2 . Ibid.
3 . WWR, 735. Letter to Edward Rutledge, May 5, 1789.
4 . PWP, 1:424. Letter to Samuel Vaughan, March 21, 1789.
5 . DiariesA, 337.
6 . PWP, 3:317. Letter from Charles Thomson, July 25, 1789.
7. Ibid., 2:54. “Address by Charles Thomson,” April 14,
1789.
8 . Ibid. p. 2:29. Letter from John Langdon, April 6, 1789.
9 . Ibid., 2:56. “Address to Charles Thomson,” April 14,
1789.
1 0 . WWR, 730. Diary entry for April 16, 1789.
1 1 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 213.
1 2 . Freeman, George Washington, 6:166.
13 . PWP, 2:78. “To the Delaware Society for Promoting
Domestic Manufacturers,” April 19–20, 1789.

Notes r! 847
1 4 . Wood, Revolutionary Characters, 50.
15 . Kaminski and McCaughan, Great and Good Man, 104.
1 6 . Ibid., 109.
17. PWP, 2:102.
1 8 . Freeman, George Washington, 6:175.
1 9 . PWP, 2:108. “To the Ladies of Trenton,” April 21, 1789.
2 0 . WWR, 735. Letter to Edward Rutledge, May 5, 1789.
2 1 . PWP, 2:133.
2 2 . Ibid., 2:134.
2 3 . Ibid.
2 4 . Ibid.
2 5 . Ibid.
2 6 . PWP, 1:444. Letter to George Clinton, March 25, 1789.
2 7. DiariesA, 338.
2 8 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 274.
2 9 . DiariesA, 338. Diary entry for April 23, 1780.
3 0 . Freeman, George Washington, 6:182.
3 1 . PWP, 2:114.
3 2 . Wood, Empire of Liberty, 56.
3 3 . Stoll, Samuel Adams, 131.
3 4 . Winik, Great Upheaval, 67.
3 5 . Isenberg, Fallen Founder, 233.
3 6 . WWR, 706. “Fragments of a Draft of the First
Inaugural Address,” ca. January 1789.
3 7. Ibid.
3 8 . Ibid., 708.
3 9 . Ibid., 707.
4 0 . WWR, 734. Letter to James Madison, May 5, 1789.
4 1 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 216.
4 2 . WWR, 718. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, January
29, 1789.
43 . Freeman, George Washington, 6:191.
4 4 . Stahr, John Jay, 269.
4 5 . Freeman, George Washington, 6:195.
4 6 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 47.
47. Ketcham, James Madison, 283.
4 8 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 275.
4 9 . Wood, Empire of Liberty, 64.
5 0 . PWP, 2:155.
5 1 . Ibid.
5 2 . Cunliffe, George Washington, 130.
5 3 . Ketcham, James Madison, 283.
5 4 . WWR, 730. “First Inaugural Address,” April 30, 1789.
5 5 . Ibid., 731.
5 6 . Ibid.
5 7. Ibid., 730–31.
5 8 . WWR, 704. “Fragments of a Draft of the First
Inaugural Address,” ca. January 1789.
5 9 . Ibid., 732. “First Inaugural Address,” April 30, 1789.
6 0 . Ibid., 733.
6 1 . Ibid.
6 2 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 8.
63 . PWP, 1:253. Letter from Samuel Powel, January 26,
1789.
6 4 . Ibid., 1:281. Letter to Samuel Powel, February 5, 1789.
6 5 . Ibid., 1:338–39. Letter from Gouverneur Morris,
February 23, 1789.
6 6 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 205.
67. Ibid., 223.
6 8 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 23.
6 9 . Brady, Martha Washington, 3.
7 0 . Ibid.
7 1 . PWP, 2:205.
7 2 . Brady, Martha Washington, 10.

7 3 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 21.
74 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 215.
7 5 . Ibid.
7 6 . Freeman, George Washington, 6:213.
7 7. Ibid., 6:213–14.
7 8 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 220.
7 9 . Ibid., 219.
8 0 . Thompson, “ ‘As If I had Been a Very Great Somebody.’”
8 1 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” p.223.
8 2 . Ibid., 224.
8 3 . Lossing, Martha Washington, 22.
Chapter Forty-seven: Acting the Presidency
1 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 56.
2 . Ibid., 333.
3 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 250.
4 . PWP, 2:246–47. Letter to John Adams, May 10, 1789.
5 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 51.
6 . Wood, Revolutionary Characters, 54.
7. Hitchens, Thomas Jefferson, 76.
8 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 56.
9 . PWP, 3:199. Letter from David Stuart, July 14, 1789.
1 0 . McDonald, Presidency of George Washington, 25–26.
1 1 . PWP, 5:526. Letter to David Stuart, June 15, 1790.
1 2 . Ibid., 3:322. Letter to David Stuart, July 26, 1789.
13 . Ibid., 3:323.
1 4 . Ibid., 2:282. Letter to James Madison, May 12, 1789.
15 . Ibid., 2:213. Letter from Alexander Hamilton, May 5,
1789.
1 6 . Ibid., 10:655. Letter to James McHenry, August 13, 1792.
17. Ibid., 2:247.
1 8 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 101.
1 9 . Sullivan, Public Men of the Revolution, 120.
2 0 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 68.
2 1 . WWR, 763. Letter to David Stuart, June 15, 1790.
2 2 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 279.
2 3 . Brady, Martha Washington, 167.
2 4 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 129.
2 5 . Sullivan, Public Men of the Revolution, 117.
2 6 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew Him,
120.
2 7. Diaries, 6:54. Diary entry for March 26, 1790.
2 8 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 245.
2 9 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 45.
3 0 . Maclay, Diary of William Maclay, 83.
3 1 . Ibid., 74.
3 2 . Ibid., 258.
3 3 . Ibid., 137.
3 4 . Ibid.
3 5 . Ibid., 212.
3 6 . Ibid.
3 7. Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 123.
3 8 . Maclay, Diary of William Maclay, 261.
3 9 . Ibid., 365–66.
4 0 . WWR, 762–63. Letter to David Stuart, June 15, 1790.
4 1 . PWP, 11:182. “Thomas Jefferson’s Conversation with
Washington,” October 1, 1792.
4 2 . Ibid, 12:107. “Thomas Jefferson’s Notes on a
Conversation with Washington,” February 7, 1793.
43 . Ibid., 2:248. Letter to George Augustine Washington,
May 3, 1789.
4 4 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 51.
4 5 . Ibid., 116.
4 6 . PWP, 2:248.

84 8

r! Notes

47. Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 116.
4 8 . PWP, 4:336.
4 9 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 144.
5 0 . PWRT, 2:490. Letter to William Fitzhugh, August 5, 1798.
5 1 . Wood, Revolutionary Characters, 52.
5 2 . Burstein, Original Knickerbocker, 7.
5 3 . PWP, 3:199. Letter from David Stuart, July 14, 1789.
5 4 . Stahr, John Jay, 226.
5 5 . Maclay, Diary of William Maclay, 34.
Chapter Forty-eight: The Cares of Ofﬁce
1 . DiariesA, 297.
2 . Flexner, George Washington, 3:212.
3 . Ibid.
4 . Ibid.
5 . PWP, 3:77.
6 . Ibid., 3:112. Letter to James McHenry, July 3, 1789.
7. Brady, Martha Washington, 167.
8 . PWP, 4:1. Letter to James Craik, September 8, 1789.
9 . Thompson, Memorandum for the Martha Washington
Anniversary Committee, 15.
1 0 . PWP, 4:1. Letter to James Craik, September 8, 1789.
1 1 . Ibid.
1 2 . Henriques, “Saint or Shrew?”
13 . WWR, 740. Letter to Betty Washington Lewis,
September 13, 1789.
1 4 . PWP, 1:368. Letter to Richard Conway, March 6, 1789.
15 . Adams, Life and Writings of Jared Sparks, 2:28.
1 6 . WWR, 741. Letter to Betty Washington Lewis,
September 13, 1789.
17. Ibid.
1 8 . PWP, 4:35.
1 9 . Maclay, Diary of William Maclay, 121.
2 0 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 59.
2 1 . Ibid.
2 2 . Maclay, Diary of William Maclay, 128.
2 3 . Ibid., 129.
2 4 . Ibid., 130.
2 5 . Ibid.
2 6 . Ibid., 386.
2 7. Guerrero, John Adams’ Vice-Presidency, 183.
2 8 . Ibid., 185.
2 9 . Wood, Revolutionary Characters, 175.
3 0 . Cunliffe, George Washington, 175.
3 1 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 575.
Chapter Forty-nine: Rays of Genius
1 . Maclay, Diary of William Maclay, 353.
2 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 74.
3 . Ibid.
4 . PWP, 1:352. Letter to Thomas Barclay, March 2, 1789.
5 . Ketcham, James Madison, 286.
6 . McDonald, Presidency of George Washington, 27.
7. Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 289.
8 . Ellis, His Excellency: George Washington, 198.
9 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 74.
1 0 . PWCF, 2:253. Letter to Henry Knox, January 5, 1785.
1 1 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 287.
1 2 . Ibid., 281.
13 . Ketcham, James Madison, 287.
1 4 . PWP, 1:441. Letter from H.Z., March 24, 1789.
15 . Adams, Life and Writings of Jared Sparks, 1:560.
1 6 . WWR, 597. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, May
10, 1786.

17. PWP, 4:413. Letter from Thomas Jefferson, December
15, 1787.
1 8 . WWR, 754–55. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, January
21, 1790.
1 9 . Hitchens, Thomas Jefferson, 70
2 0 . PWCF, 6:256. Letter from Thomas Jefferson, May 2,
1788.
2 1 . Wills, Cincinnatus, 199.
2 2 . Jefferson, Writings, 1319.
2 3 . Ibid., 1321.
2 4 . Thompson, Memorandum for the Martha Washington
Anniversary Committee, 20.
2 5 . Jefferson, Writings, 1319.
2 6 . Ibid., 1320.
2 7. Schiff, Great Improvisation, 403.
2 8 . Jackman, “Young Englishman Reports.”
2 9 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 55.
3 0 . PWP, 4:67. Letter to James Madison, ca. September
23, 1789.
3 1 . PWCF, 6:316. Letter from Bushrod Washington, June
7, 1788.
3 2 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 72.
3 3 . Ibid.
3 4 . PWP, 4:78. Letter to John Jay, October 5, 1789.
3 5 . WWF, 25:274. Letter to John Jay, October 18, 1782.
3 6 . PWP, 4:137. Letter to John Jay, October 5, 1789.
3 7. McDonald, Presidency of George Washington, 40.
3 8 . Wood, Empire of Liberty, 86.
3 9 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 70.
4 0 . PWP, 10:455. Letter from Henry Lee, June 15, 1792.
4 1 . Flexner, George Washington, 2:550.
4 2 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 268.
43 . PWP, 2:248.
4 4 . WWR, 752. Letter to Catharine Macaulay Graham,
January 9, 1790.
4 5 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 290.
4 6 . Marshall, Life of George Washington, 467.
47. Wiencek, Imperfect God, 188.
4 8 . Jefferson, Writings, 1318.
4 9 . Ibid.
5 0 . WWF, 35:138. Letter to the Secretary of War, July 13,
1796.
5 1 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 78–79.
5 2 . WWF, 35:296. Letter to George Washington Parke
Custis, November 28, 1796.
5 3 . Wills, Cincinnatus, 100.
5 4 . WWR, 662–63. Letter to Bushrod Washington,
November 9, 1787.
5 5 . Thompson, “In the Hands of a Good Providence,” 8.
5 6 . WWF, 33:319. Letter to James McHenry, April 8, 1794.
5 7. PWCF, 4:211. Letter to Theodorick Bland, August 15,
1786.
5 8 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:493.
5 9 . PWRT, 1:219. Letter to David Humphreys, June 26,
1797.
6 0 . WWR, 823. Letter to John Francis Mercer, September
26, 1792.
6 1 . Ibid., 699. Letter to Benjamin Lincoln, October 26,
1788.
6 2 . Ibid., 712. “Fragments of a Draft of the First Inaugural
Address,” ca. January 1789.
63 . PWP, 1:244. Letter from James Madison, January 14,
1789.
6 4 . Ibid., 2:419. Letter to James Madison, ca. May 31, 1789.

Notes r! 849
6 5 . Leibiger, Founding Friendship, 121.
6 6 . PWP, 4:176. Letter to Gouverneur Morris, October
13, 1789.
Chapter Fifty: The Traveling Presidency
1 . WWR, 737–38. Letter to John Adams, May 10, 1789.
2 . PWP, 4:132. “Thanksgiving Proclamation,” October 3,
1789.
3 . Jefferson, Writings, 1319.
4 . Diaries, 5:464. Diary entry for October 17, 1789.
5 . DiariesA, 348. Diary entry for October 21, 1789.
6 . Ibid., 349. Diary entry for October 23, 1789.
7. Irving, Life of George Washington, 562.
8 . Ibid., 563.
9 . DiariesA, 350. Diary entry for October 24, 1789.
1 0 . Diaries, 5:475.
1 1 . DiariesA, 351. Diary entry for October 25, 1789.
1 2 . PWP, 4:228. Letter from John Hancock, October 26,
1789.
13 . Ibid., 162. Letter to Betty Washington Lewis, October
12, 1789.
1 4 . Ibid., 162–63.
15 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 83.
1 6 . Miles, George and Martha Washington, 21.
17. DiariesA, 352.
1 8 . Ibid. Diary entry for October 28, 1789.
1 9 . Thompson, Statements Regarding the Physical
Appearance, 48.
2 0 . Diaries, 5:480–81.
2 1 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 278.
2 2 . DiariesA, 353. Diary entry for October 29, 1789.
2 3 . Ibid.
2 4 . Ibid., 356. Diary entry for November 3, 1789.
2 5 . Ibid., Diary entry for November 5, 1789.
2 6 . Ibid., 357. Diary entry for November 6, 1789.
2 7. Freeman, George Washington, 6:245.
2 8 . DiariesA, 358. Diary entry for November 13, 1789.
2 9 . Ibid., 333.
3 0 . Ibid., 341.
3 1 . PWP, 9:217. Letter to Lafayette, November 21, 1791.
3 2 . Miles, George and Martha Washington, 25.
3 3 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 134.
3 4 . Custis, Recollections and Private Memoirs of
Washington, 408.
3 5 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 617.
3 6 . Miles, George and Martha Washington, 17.
3 7. Barratt and Miles, Gilbert Stuart, 191.
3 8 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 165.
3 9 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 7.
4 0 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 310.
4 1 . Custis, Recollections and Private Memoirs of
Washington, 41.
4 2 . PWRT, 2:324. Letter to George Washington Parke
Custis, June 13, 1798.
43 . PWP, 8:52.
4 4 . Diaries, 6:26.
4 5 . PWP, 5:193. Letter to Gouverneur Morris, March 1,
1790.
Chapter Fifty-one: The State of the President
1 . Maclay, Diary of William Maclay, 179.
2 . WWR, 749. “First Annual Message to Congress,”
January 8, 1790.
3 . Maclay, Diary of William Maclay, 182.

4 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 572.
5 . WWR, 503. Letter to Lund Washington, March 19, 1783.
6 . PWCF, 5:411–12. Letter to David Stuart, November 5,
1787.
7. Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 297.
8 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 79.
9 . Adams, Life and Writings of Jared Sparks, 1:565.
1 0 . WWR, 502. Letter to Joseph Jones, March 18, 1783.
1 1 . WWF, 26:446–47. “General Orders,” May 21, 1783.
1 2 . WWR, 757. Letter to David Stuart, March 28, 1790.
13 . Ibid., 756.
1 4 . Ibid., 760. Letter to David Stuart, June 15, 1780.
15 . PWP, 4:266. “To the Society of Quakers,” ca. October
1789.
1 6 . WWR, 1118.
17. Bordewich, Washington, 39.
1 8 . Winik, Great Upheaval, 277.
1 9 . DiariesA, 367. Diary entry for March 16, 1790.
2 0 . WWR, 758. Letter to David Stuart, March 28, 1790.
2 1 . Ibid., 761. Letter to David Stuart, June 15, 1790.
2 2 . Fountain, “Observatory,” New York Times, January
17, 2006.
2 3 . PWP, 5:388. Letter from Henry Hill, May 7, 1790.
2 4 . Van Doren, Benjamin Franklin, 780.
2 5 . Schiff, Great Improvisation, 403.
2 6 . Diaries, 6:56. Diary entry for April 4, 1790.
2 7. PWP, 5:394.
2 8 . Ibid.
2 9 . Ibid.
3 0 . Ibid., 5:395.
3 1 . Ibid., 5:393.
3 2 . Ibid., 5:394.
3 3 . Ibid.
3 4 . DiariesA, 373.
3 5 . Ibid.
3 6 . Unger, Unexpected Washington, 200.
3 7. DiariesA, 373.
3 8 . PWP, 5:397.
3 9 . Ibid., 5:469. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, June
3, 1790.
4 0 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 226.
4 1 . PWP, 5:396.
4 2 . Ibid, 5:397.
43 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 323.
4 4 . PWP, 5:527. Letter to David Stuart, June 15, 1790.
4 5 . Ibid.
4 6 . Ibid., 5:469. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, June
3, 1790.
47. Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 133.
4 8 . PWP, 8:327.
4 9 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 201.
Chapter Fifty-two: Capital Matters
1 . WWR, 796–97. Letter to Arthur Young, December 5,
1791.
2 . Ketcham, James Madison, 309.
3 . WWR, 761. Letter to David Stuart, June 15, 1790.
4 . Ibid.
5 . Bordewich, Washington, 29.
6 . Maclay, Diary of William Maclay, 257.
7. Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 319.
8 . Ibid., 328.
9 . PWP, 11:98. Letter from Thomas Jefferson, September
9, 1792.

850

r! Notes

1 0 . Maclay, Diary of William Maclay, 21.
1 1 . PWP, 6:72.
1 2 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 105.
13 . Maclay, Diary of William Maclay, 368.
1 4 . Thompson, “In the Hands of a Good Providence,” 159.
15 . Ibid.
1 6 . PWP, 6:285. “To the Hebrew Congregation in
Newport, Rhode Island,” August 18, 1790.
17. Ibid., 5:448. Letter to the Savannah, Georgia, Hebrew
Congregation, ca. May 1790.
1 8 . Ibid., 6:303.
1 9 . Freeman, George Washington, 6:279.
2 0 . PWP, 6:681. Letter from Tobias Lear, November 21, 1790.
2 1 . Ibid., 6:105. Letter to Clement Biddle, July 20, 1790.
2 2 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 169.
2 3 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 154.
2 4 . WWR, 768. “Second Annual Message to Congress,”
December 8, 1790.
2 5 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 342.
2 6 . Maclay, Diary of William Maclay, 377.
2 7. Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 136.
2 8 . PWP, 6:606. Letter from Tobias Lear, October 31, 1790.
2 9 . Ibid., 6:409. Letter to Tobias Lear, September 9, 1790.
3 0 . Ibid., 6:682. Letter to Tobias Lear, November 22, 1790.
3 1 . Ibid., 8:85. Letter to Tobias Lear, April 12, 1791.
3 2 . Ibid.
3 3 . Ibid.
3 4 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 230.
3 5 . PWP, 8:85. Letter to Tobias Lear, April 12, 1791.
3 6 . Ibid., 8:132. Letter from Tobias Lear, April 24, 1791.
3 7. Ibid.
3 8 . Ibid., 8:232. Letter from Tobias Lear, June 5, 1791.
3 9 . Schwarz, Slavery at the Home of George Washington,
36.
4 0 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 254.
4 1 . PWP, 11:229. Letter to Anthony Whitting, October
14, 1792.
4 2 . Ibid., 10:461. Letter to Arthur Young, June 18, 1792.
43 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 151.
4 4 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 233.
4 5 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 150.
4 6 . PWP, 11:229. Letter to Anthony Whitting, October
14, 1792.
47. Ibid., 11:333. Letter to Anthony Whitting, November
4, 1792.
4 8 . Ibid., 11:401. Letter to Anthony Whitting, November
18, 1792.
4 9 . WWF, 34:12. Letter to William Pearce, November 2,
1794.
5 0 . Ibid., 35:34. Letter to William Pearce, May 1, 1796.
5 1 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 149.
5 2 . PWP, 11:461. Letter to Anthony Whitting, December
2, 1792.
5 3 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 154.
Chapter Fifty-three: Southern Exposure
1 . Diaries, 6:9. Diary entry for January 18, 1790.
2 . PWP, 7:355. Letter to John Greenwood, February 16, 1791.
3 . Ibid., 8:515. Letter from John Greenwood, September
10, 1791.
4 . WWR, 985. Letter to John Greenwood, January 20, 1797.
5 . Ibid., 986.
6 . PWRT, 3:245. Letter to John Greenwood, December
7, 1798.

7. Ibid.
8 . PWRT, 3:289. Letter from John Greenwood, December
28, 1798.
9 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 166.
1 0 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 195.
1 1 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 362.
1 2 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 179.
13 . Ibid., 177.
1 4 . Ibid., 200.
15 . Ibid., 173.
1 6 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew
Him, 94.
17. Miles, George and Martha Washington, 20.
1 8 . PWRT, 3:243. Letter to Elizabeth Willing Powel,
December 4, 1798.
1 9 . Ibid., 3:242. Letter from Elizabeth Willing Powel,
December 3, 1798.
2 0 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 311.
2 1 . PWRT, 1:130. Letter to Mary White Morris, May 1, 1797.
2 2 . WWR, 824. Letter to Elizabeth Washington Lewis,
October 7, 1792.
2 3 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 81.
2 4 . Cappon, Adams-Jefferson Letters, 401.
2 5 . PWRT, 1:392. Letter to Elizabeth Foote Washington,
October 8, 1797.
2 6 . PWP, 7:396.
2 7. Ibid., 7:357. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, February
16, 1791.
2 8 . Freeman, George Washington, 6:293.
2 9 . Cappon, Adams-Jefferson Letters, 363.
3 0 . PWP, 8:359. Letter to David Humphreys, July 20, 1791.
3 1 . Ibid., 5:236. Letter from David Stuart, March 15, 1790.
3 2 . Ibid., 6:274.
3 3 . Freeman, George Washington, 6:307.
3 4 . PWP, 8:277. Letter to Tobias Lear, June 19, 1791.
3 5 . Diaries, 6:107.
3 6 . Ibid., 6:112. Diary entry for April 15, 1791.
3 7. Ibid., 6:113. Diary entry for April 16, 1791.
3 8 . Ibid., 112.
3 9 . DiariesA, 383. Diary entry for April 20, 1791.
4 0 . PWP, 8:73–74.
4 1 . Diaries, 6:120.
4 2 . McCammant, George Washington the Mason, 11.
43 . Diaries, 6:128.
4 4 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew Him,
xvi.
4 5 . DiariesA, 385. Diary entry for May 3, 1791.
4 6 . Ibid., 385–86. Diary entry for May 5, 1791.
47. Diaries, 6:125.
4 8 . PWP, 8:183. Letter to Tobias Lear, May 14, 1791.
4 9 . DiariesA, 387.
5 0 . Diaries, 6:142.
5 1 . DiariesA, 387. Diary entry for May 19, 1791.
5 2 . Diaries, 6:154. Diary entry for June 2, 1791.
5 3 . DiariesA, 391. Diary entry for June 4, 1791.
5 4 . PWP, 8:357–58. Letter to Catharine Sawbridge
Macaulay Graham, July 19, 1791.
5 5 . Ibid., 8:358. Letter to David Humphreys, July 20, 1791.
5 6 . Ibid., 8:415. Letter to William Moultrie, August 9, 1791.
5 7. Ibid., 8:327.
Chapter Fifty-four: Running into Extremes
1 . WWR, 589. Letter to James McHenry, August 22, 1785.
2 . Grant, John Adams, 366.

Notes r! 85 1
3 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 294.
4 . Diaries, 6:87–88. Diary entry for July 8, 1790.
5 . DiariesA, 377. Diary entry for July 14, 1790.
6 . PWP, 6:83.
7. Jackman, “Young Englishman Reports.”
8 . PWCF, 5:359. Letter from the Marquis de Lafayette,
October 9, 1787.
9 . Ketchum, Victory at Yorktown, 49.
1 0 . WWR, 375. Letter to Joseph Reed, May 28, 1780.
1 1 . PWCF, 6:137. Letter to James Madison, March 2, 1788.
1 2 . WWR, 683. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, June
19, 1788.
13 . Unger, Lafayette, 234.
1 4 . Weber, Queen of Fashion, 200.
15 . PWP, 5:241. Letter from the Marquis de Lafayette,
March 17, 1790.
1 6 . Ibid., 5:243.
17. WWR, 746. Letter to Gouverneur Morris, October 13,
1789.
1 8 . PWP, 4:567. Letter from the Marquis de Lafayette,
January 12, 1790.
1 9 . Ibid., 6:231. Letter to Rochambeau, August 10, 1790.
2 0 . Ibid., 6:233. Letter to Lafayette, August 11, 1790.
2 1 . Unger, Lafayette, 263.
2 2 . PWP, 6:317. Letter from Lafayette, August 23, 1790.
2 3 . Nelson, Thomas Paine, 210.
2 4 . Hitchens, Thomas Jefferson, 84.
2 5 . Nelson, Thomas Paine, 217.
2 6 . Ibid., 216.
2 7. PWP, 10:88.
2 8 . Weber, Queen of Fashion, 239.
2 9 . WWR, 780. Letter to Lafayette, July 28, 1791.
3 0 . Unger, Lafayette, 277
3 1 . PWP, 8:24. “Agreement of the Proprietors of the
Federal District,” March 30, 1791.
3 2 . Berg, Grand Avenues, 103.
3 3 . Bordewich, Washington, 73.
3 4 . PWP, 8:288. Letter from Pierre-Charles L’Enfant, June
22, 1791.
3 5 . Ibid., 4:15. Letter from Pierre-Charles L’Enfant,
September 11, 1789.
3 6 . Berg, Grand Avenues, 103.
3 7. MTV. “Early Descriptions Ante 1800.”
3 8 . WWR, 785. Letter to Tobias Lear, October 14, 1791.
3 9 . Ibid., 787. “Third Annual Message to Congress,”
October 25, 1791.
4 0 . PWP, 9:239. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, November
30, 1791.
4 1 . Ibid., 245. Letter to Pierre-Charles L’Enfant, December
2, 1791.
4 2 . Berg, Grand Avenues, 175.
43 . PWP, 9:469. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, January 18,
1792.
4 4 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 103.
4 5 . PWP, 10:18. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, March 4, 1792.
4 6 . Bordewich, Washington, 101.
47. WWR, 745. Letter to Arthur St.Clair, October 6, 1789.
4 8 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 317.
4 9 . WWR, 768. Letter to Henry Knox, November 19, 1790.
5 0 . PWP, 8:275.
5 1 . Ibid., 360. Letter to David Humphreys, July 20, 1791.
5 2 . WWR, 774. “To the Chiefs of the Seneca Nation,”
December 29, 1790.
5 3 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 319.

5 4 . WWR, 687. Letter to Richard Henderson, June 19,
1788.
5 5 . Kohn, Eagle and Sword, 115.
5 6 . Ibid.
5 7. Freeman, George Washington, 6:336.
5 8 . PWP, 9:275.
5 9 . Ibid., 10:71. “Thomas Jefferson’s Memorandum of
a Meeting of the Heads of the Executive Departments,”
March 9, 1792.
6 0 . Ibid., 10:156.
6 1 . Kohn, Eagle and Sword, 116.
6 2 . PWP, 9:505.
63 . Ibid., 10:169.
6 4 . Ibid.
6 5 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 322.
Chapter Fifty-ﬁve: A Tissue of Machinations
1 . PWP, 5:468. Letter to the Marquis de Lafayette, June
3, 1790.
2 . Ellis, American Creation, 165.
3 . Ibid., 173.
4 . PWP, 8:185. Letter from Thomas Jefferson, May 15, 1791.
5 . Wilentz, Rise of American Democracy, 49.
6 . McDonald, Presidency of George Washington, 92.
7. Diaries, 6:12. Diary entry for January 22, 1790.
8 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 266.
9 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 84.
1 0 . Ibid., 87.
1 1 . Ibid.
1 2 . PWP, 8:359. Letter to David Humphreys, July 20, 1791.
13 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 357.
1 4 . Ibid., 358.
15 . Ibid., 359.
1 6 . Ibid.
17. Ibid.
1 8 . Ibid., 380.
1 9 . Ibid., 381.
2 0 . Ibid.
2 1 . Ibid., 382.
2 2 . Fleming, “Wall Street’s First Collapse.”
2 3 . PWP, 5:355. Letter from Lund Washington, April 28,
1790.
2 4 . Berg, Grand Avenues, 188.
2 5 . PWP, 9:483. Letter from “Anonymous,” ca. January
1792.
2 6 . Ibid., 10:174. Letter from “Anonymous,” March 1792.
2 7. Ibid.
2 8 . PWP, 10:6–7. “Thomas Jefferson’s Memorandum of
Conversations with Washington,” March 1, 1792.
2 9 . Ibid., 10:8.
3 0 . Ellis, American Creation, 192.
3 1 . PWP, 10:8. “Thomas Jefferson’s Memorandum of
Conversations with Washington,” March 1, 1792.
3 2 . Ibid.
3 3 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 400.
3 4 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 268.
3 5 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 362.
3 6 . PWP, 10:314. Letter to Elizabeth Willing Powel, April
23, 1792.
3 7. Ibid., 10:349. “Madison’s Conversations with
Washington,” May 5, 1792.
3 8 . Ibid., 10:350.
3 9 . Ibid., 10:352.
4 0 . Ibid., 10:351.

852

r! Notes

4 1 . Ibid., 10:400. Letter to James Madison, May 20, 1792.
4 2 . Ibid., 10:401.
43 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 84.
4 4 . PWP, 10:410. Letter from Thomas Jefferson, May 23,
1792.
4 5 . Ibid., 10:412.
4 6 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 401.
47. PWP, 10:479. Letter from James Madison, June 20,
1792.
4 8 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 402.
4 9 . PWP, 10:535. “Jefferson’s Conversation with
Washington,” July 10, 1792.
5 0 . Ibid., 10:536.
5 1 . Ibid., 558. Letter from Tobias Lear, July 21, 1792.
5 2 . Ibid., 10:624. Letter from Tobias Lear, August 5, 1792.
5 3 . Ibid., 10:631. Letter from Edmund Randolph, August
5, 1792.
5 4 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 403.
5 5 . WWR, 809. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, July 29,
1792.
5 6 . Ibid., 811.
5 7. PWP, 10:594. Letter from Alexander Hamilton, July
30, 1792.
5 8 . Ibid., 11:12–13. Letter from Alexander Hamilton,
August 18, 1792.
5 9 . Ibid., 11:45–46. Letter to Edmund Randolph, August
26, 1792.
6 0 . WWR, 819. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, August
26, 1792.
6 1 . Ibid.
6 2 . Ibid., 820.
63 . Ibid., 818. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, August 23, 1792.
6 4 . PWP, 11:92. Letter from Alexander Hamilton,
September 9, 1792.
6 5 . Ibid.
6 6 . Ibid., 11:104. Letter from Thomas Jefferson, September
9, 1792.
67. Ibid., 11:182. “Thomas Jefferson’s Conversation with
Washington,” October 1, 1792.
6 8 . Ibid., 11:183.
6 9 . Ibid.
7 0 . Ibid. 11:183–84.
7 1 . Ibid., 11:184.
7 2 . Ibid.
7 3 . Ibid., 11:185.
74 . Ibid.
7 5 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 408.
7 6 . PWP, 11:396. Letter from Elizabeth Willing Powel,
November 17, 1792.
Chapter Fifty-six: Citizen Genet
1 . PWP, 12:30. Letter to Henry Lee, January 20, 1793.
2 . Ibid., 11:511. “Thomas Jefferson’s Conversations with
Washington,” December 13, 1792.
3 . Ibid., 13:472. Letter from William Gordon, August 17,
1793.
4 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 424.
5 . PWCF, 6:355. Letter to Mathew Carey, June 25, 1788.
6 . PWP, 11:245. Letter to Gouverneur Morris, October
20, 1792.
7. Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 302.
8 . PWP, 12:106. “Thomas Jefferson’s Notes on a
Conversation with Washington,” February 7, 1793.
9 . Schiff, Great Improvisation, 406.

1 0 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 30.
1 1 . PWRT, 1:408. Letter to William Gordon, October 15,
1797.
1 2 . WWF, 17:225. Letter to Governor William Livingston,
December 7, 1779.
13 . PWP, 13:261. Letter to Henry Lee, July 21, 1793.
1 4 . WWR, 834–35. Letter to Frances Bassett Washington,
February 24, 1793.
15 . PWP, 12:363. Letter to David Humphreys, March 23,
1793.
1 6 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 217.
17. PWP, 12:242. “Cabinet Opinion on the Administration
of the Presidential Oath,” March 1, 1793.
1 8 . Ibid., 12:265.
1 9 . Ibid., 10:115–16. Letter from Lafayette, March 15, 1792.
2 0 . Unger, Lafayette, 281.
2 1 . Ibid., 285.
2 2 . PWP, 11:205. Letter from Madame de Lafayette,
October 8, 1792.
2 3 . Unger, Lafayette, 292.
2 4 . PWP, 12:331. Letter to Madame Lafayette, March 16,
1793.
2 5 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 108–9.
2 6 . Ellis, American Creation, 189.
2 7. Ibid.
2 8 . Ketcham, James Madison, 339.
2 9 . WWF, 33:414. Letter to Gouverneur Morris, June 25,
1794.
3 0 . WWR, 836. Letter to Gouverneur Morris, March 25,
1793.
3 1 . Ibid., 837. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, April 12, 1793.
3 2 . PWP, 12:529. “Thomas Jefferson’s Notes on a Cabinet
Meeting,” May 6, 1793.
3 3 . Ibid.
3 4 . Ibid., 12:472–73. “Neutrality Proclamation,” April 22,
1793.
3 5 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 436.
3 6 . Adam Cohen, “Congress, the Constitution and War,”
New York Times, January 29, 2007.
3 7. Ellis, American Creation, 191.
3 8 . Ibid., 188.
3 9 . PWP, 11:593. Letter from Gouverneur Morris, January
6, 1793.
4 0 . Ibid., 12:393. “Thomas Jefferson’s Notes on the
Opinions Regarding the Reception of Edmond Genet,”
March 30, 1793.
4 1 . Wills, Cincinnatus, 95.
4 2 . PWP, 12:648.
43 . Ibid., 13:19.
4 4 . Ellis, American Creation, 183.
4 5 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 125.
4 6 . PWP, 13:145. Letter from Gouverneur Morris, June
25, 1793.
47. Ellis, American Creation, 192.
4 8 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew Him,
105.
4 9 . PWP, 13:187. “Memorandum from Alexander
Hamilton and Henry Knox,” July 8, 1793.
5 0 . Chinard, George Washington as the French Knew Him,
105.
5 1 . PWP, 13:175.
5 2 . WWR, 841. Letter to Henry Lee, July 21, 1793.
5 3 . PWP, 13:211. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, July 11, 1793.
5 4 . WWR, 841. Letter to Henry Lee, July 21, 1793.

Notes r! 853
5 5 . PWP, 13:392. “From Supreme Court Justices,” August
8, 1793.
5 6 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 219.
5 7. Cappon, Adams-Jefferson Letters, 346.
5 8 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 444.
5 9 . Ellis, American Creation, 191.
6 0 . Ketcham, James Madison, 343.
6 1 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 445.
6 2 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 294.
63 . PWP 13:312.
6 4 . Ibid.
6 5 . Ibid.
6 6 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:131.
67. WWR, 553. Letter to Benjamin Harrison, January 18,
1784.
6 8 . McDonald, Presidency of George Washington, 132.
Chapter Fifty-seven: Bring Out Your Dead
1 . Cappon, Adams-Jefferson Letters, 347.
2 . PWP, 13:297. Letter to Frances Bassett Washington, July
29, 1793.
3 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 221.
4 . Brady, Martha Washington, 198.
5 . PWP, 14:54. Letter from Elizabeth Willing Powel,
September 9, 1793.
6 . Maxey, Portrait of Elizabeth Willing Powel, 36.
7. PWP, 14:113. Letter from Henry Knox, September 18,1793.
8 . WWF, 33:125. Letter to James Madison, October 14, 1793.
9 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 452.
1 0 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 222.
1 1 . WWR, 848. “Fifth Annual Message to Congress,”
December 3, 1793.
1 2 . Bordewich, Washington, 105.
13 . PWP, 10:562. Letter to the Commissioners for the
District of Columbia, July 23, 1792.
1 4 . WWR, 815. Letter to Tobias Lear, July 30, 1792.
15 . PWP, 12:250–51. Letter to the Commissioners for the
District of Columbia, March 3, 1793.
1 6 . Bordewich, Washington, 151
17. McCammant, George Washington the Mason, 13.
1 8 . WWF, 33:441. Letter to Thomas Sim Lee, July 25, 1794.
1 9 . Wood, Empire of Liberty, 143.
2 0 . PWP, 11:489. Letter to Anthony Whitting, December
9, 1792.
2 1 . Ibid., 11:595. Letter to Anthony Whitting, January 6,
1793.
2 2 . Ibid., 12:339. Letter to Frances Bassett Washington,
March 17, 1793.
2 3 . Ibid., 12:352. Letter from Anthony Whitting, March
20, 1793.
2 4 . Ibid., 13:108. Letter from Tobias Lear, June 19, 1793.
2 5 . Ibid., 13:263. Letter to William Tilghman, July 21, 1793.
2 6 . WWF, 33:192. Letter to William Pearce, December
18, 1793.
2 7. Ibid., 33:240. Letter to William Pearce, January 12, 1794.
2 8 . Ibid., 33:191. Letter to William Pearce, December 18,
1793.
2 9 . Ibid., 33:193.
3 0 . Ibid., 33:194.
3 1 . Ibid., 33:132. Letter to Governor Henry Lee, October
16, 1793.
3 2 . PWP, 14:595–96. Letter to Hiland Crow, December
23, 1793.
3 3 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 125.

3 4 . PWP, 14:605. Letter to Henry McCoy, December 23,
1793.
3 5 . Ibid., 14:605–6.
3 6 . PWP, 14:598–99. Letter to Thomas Green, December
23, 1793.
3 7. PWP, 14:597. Letter to John Christian Ehlers,
December 23, 1793.
3 8 . WWR., 868. Letter to Tobias Lear, May 6, 1794.
3 9 . Ibid., 856. Letter to Arthur Young, December 12, 1793.
4 0 . Ibid., 852.
4 1 . Ibid, 1120. Letter to Arthur Young, November 9, 1794.
4 2 . Ibid., 868. Letter to Tobias Lear, May 6, 1794.
43 . Ibid., 900. Letter to Alexander Spotswood, November
23, 1794.
4 4 . Ibid.
4 5 . Ibid.
4 6 . PWP, 9:156. Letter to Charles Pinckney, November
8, 1791.
47. Hochschild, Bury the Chains, 263.
4 8 . Hitchens, Thomas Jefferson, 100.
Chapter Fifty-eight: Hercules in the Field
1 . Brady, Martha Washington, 200.
2 . Ellis, American Creation, 192.
3 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 453.
4 . McDonald, Presidency of George Washington, 137.
5 . Ellis, American Creation, 196.
6 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 454.
7. Nelson, Thomas Paine, 216.
8 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 93.
9 . Ellis, His Excellency: George Washington, 150.
1 0 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 343.
1 1 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 453.
1 2 . WWR, 1121.
13 . Ibid., 878. Letter to Henry Lee, August 26, 1794.
1 4 . Ibid., 952. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, July 6, 1796.
15 . Custis, Recollections and Private Memoirs of
Washington, 216.
1 6 . Oren, “How to Deal with Pirates,” Wall Street Journal,
November 22–23, 2008.
17. Schama, Citizens, 791.
1 8 . PWP, 14:229. Letter from Gouverneur Morris, October
18, 1793.
1 9 . Winik, Great Upheaval, 512.
2 0 . Gilmour, “Liberty, Equality, Fratricide,” New York
Times Book Review, May 7, 2006.
2 1 . Burr, Political Correspondence and Public Papers, 1:236.
2 2 . WWF, 33:310. Letter to Governor George Clinton,
March 31, 1794.
2 3 . Wood, Empire of Liberty, 196.
2 4 . Burr, Political Correspondence and Public Papers, 1:177.
2 5 . WWR, 880. Letter to John Jay, August 30, 1794.
2 6 . WWF, 33:411. Letter to the Secretary of War, June 25,
1794.
2 7. Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 271.
2 8 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 174.
2 9 . Thompson, Memorandum for the Martha Washington
Anniversary Committee, 16.
3 0 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 324.
3 1 . WWR, 893. “Sixth Annual Message to Congress,”
November 19, 1794.
3 2 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 336.
3 3 . WWR, 904. Letter to Edmund Pendleton, January
22, 1795.

85 4

r! Notes

3 4 . Ibid., 957. “Address to the Cherokee Nation,” August
29, 1796.
3 5 . PWP, 11:76. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, September
7, 1792.
3 6 . WWR, 874. Letter to Charles Mynn Thruston, August
10, 1794.
3 7. Brookhiser, Founding Father, 86.
3 8 . WWF, 33:461. “Proclamation,” August 7, 1794.
3 9 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 471.
4 0 . Ibid.
4 1 . WWR, 876. Letter to Henry Lee, August 26, 1794.
4 2 . Ibid.
43 . PWP, 11:59. Letter from Alexander Hamilton,
September 1, 1792.
4 4 . Miles, George and Martha Washington, 29.
4 5 . WWF, 33:507–8. “Proclamation,” September 25, 1794.
4 6 . Ibid., 33:508.
47. Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 277.
4 8 . WFF, 33:516–17. Letter to the Secretary of War,
September 30, 1794.
4 9 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 471.
5 0 . McDonald, Presidency of George Washington, 147.
Chapter Fifty-nine: Crowns and Coronets
1 . Diaries, 6:180. Diary entry for October 3, 1794.
2 . Ibid. 6:182.
3 . Ibid.
4 . WWF, 33:521. Letter to the Secretary of State, October
6, 1794.
5 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 475.
6 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 309.
7. WWF, 33:524. Letter to the Secretary of War, October
9, 1794.
8 . Ibid., 519. “To the Inhabitants of the Borough of
Carlisle,” October 6, 1794.
9 . Diaries, 6:188.
1 0 . DiariesA, 396. Diary entry for October 6–12, 1794.
1 1 . Ibid., 397.
1 2 . WWR, 886. Letter to Edmund Randolph, October
16, 1794.
13 . Diaries, 6:190. Diary entry for October 13, 1794.
1 4 . DiariesA, 398. Diary entry for October 17–18, 1794.
15 . Diaries, 6:194.
1 6 . Ibid., 6:196.
17. Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 475.
1 8 . WWR, 888. “Sixth Annual Message to Congress,”
November 19, 1794.
1 9 . Ketcham, James Madison, 354.
2 0 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 89.
2 1 . Ketcham, James Madison, 355.
2 2 . Ibid.
2 3 . Hitchens, Thomas Jefferson, 105.
2 4 . WWF, 34:109. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, February
2, 1795.
2 5 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 311.
2 6 . Ibid.
2 7. Ibid., 312.
2 8 . WWR, 903. Letter to Edmund Pendleton, January
22, 1795.
Chapter Sixty: Mad Dog
1 . WWF, 34:16. Letter to John Jay, November 1, 1794.
2 . Ibid.
3 . WWR, 913. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, July 3, 1795.

4 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:257.
5 . Stahr, John Jay, 336.
6 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 487.
7. Ibid.
8 . WWF, 34:254. “Letter Book,” August 1 and 25, 1795.
9 . Ibid., 262. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, July 29, 1795.
1 0 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 227.
1 1 . WWF, 34:251. Letter to the Secretary of War, July 27,
1795.
1 2 . Ibid., 264. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, July 29, 1795.
13 . Ibid., 262.
1 4 . Diaries, 6:208.
15 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:282.
1 6 . McDonald, Presidency of George Washington, 164.
17. Freeman, George Washington, 7:279.
1 8 . WWF 34:276. Letter to the Secretaries of the Treasury
and War, August 12–18, 1795.
1 9 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:293.
2 0 . Randolph, Vindication of Edmund Randolph, 1.
2 1 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:294–95.
2 2 . Randolph, Vindication of Edmund Randolph, 2.
2 3 . WWF, 34:321. Letter to the Secretary of the Treasury,
October 2, 1795.
2 4 . Ibid., 34:340. Letter to Edmund Randolph, October
21, 1795.
2 5 . Ibid., 34:344. Letter to Edmund Randolph, October
25, 1795.
2 6 . Malone, Jefferson and His Time, 3:263.
2 7. Brookhiser, Founding Father, 117.
2 8 . WWF, 34:404. Letter from Alexander Hamilton,
December 24, 1795.
2 9 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:335.
3 0 . WWF, 34:279. Letter to John Adams, August 20, 1795.
3 1 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 115.
3 2 . WWR, 918. Letter to Patrick Henry, October 9, 1795.
3 3 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 504.
3 4 . Ibid.
3 5 . WWF, 26:349. Letter to James Madison, April 22, 1783.
3 6 . PWRT, 2:500. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, August
9, 1798.
3 7. Malone, Jefferson and His Time, 3:263.
3 8 . Smith, John Marshall, 598.
3 9 . WWF, 34:288. Letter to John Marshall, August 26, 1795.
4 0 . Ibid., 34:318. Letter to Edward Carrington, September
28, 1795.
4 1 . Ibid., 35:277. Letter to Charles Lee, November 14, 1796.
4 2 . Ibid., 34:375. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, November
23, 1795.
43 . Ibid., 34:299–300. Letter to George Cabot, September
7, 1795.
4 4 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:304.
4 5 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 230.
4 6 . WWF, 34:404. Letter to Alexander Hamilton,
December 22, 1795.
47. Ibid., 34:425. Letter to James Madison, January 22,
1796.
4 8 . Ibid., 34:462. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, February
13, 1796.
4 9 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 231.
5 0 . WWF, 34:473. Letter to Thomas Pinckney, February
20, 1796.
5 1 . Ibid., 34:486. Letter to James Madison, March 6, 1796.
5 2 . Ibid., 35:62. Letter to Thomas Pinckney, May 22, 1796.
5 3 . PWRT, 1:209. Letter to Ségur, June 24, 1797.

Notes r! 855
5 4 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 62.
5 5 . Ibid.
5 6 . Unger, Lafayette, 245.
Chapter Sixty-one: The Colossus of the People
1 . WWR, 933. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, March 31,
1796.
2 . Ibid., 934.
3 . Ibid., 931. “ To the House of Representatives,” March
30, 1796.
4 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:376.
5 . WWF, 35:62. Letter to Thomas Pinckney, May 22, 1796.
6 . McDonald, Presidency of George Washington, 173.
7. Ellis, American Creation, 200.
8 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 499.
9 . Ellis, American Creation, 200.
1 0 . Ibid.
1 1 . WWF, 35:30. Letter to Charles Carroll, May 1, 1796.
1 2 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 499.
13 . Malone, Jefferson and His Time, 3:269.
1 4 . Ibid., 268.
15 . WWR, 952. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, July 6, 1796.
1 6 . Ibid., 952.
17. Malone, Jefferson and His Time, 3:270.
1 8 . WWR, 951–52. Letter to Thomas Jefferson, July 6, 1796.
1 9 . Ibid., 952.
2 0 . Thompson, Memorandum for the Martha Washington
Anniversary Committee, 18.
2 1 . PWRT, 2:176. “Comments on Monroe’s A View of the
Conduct of the Executive in the Foreign Affairs of the United
States,” ca. March 1798.
2 2 . WWR, 936. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, May 8,
1796.
2 3 . WWF, 15:199. Letter to Archibald Cary, ca. May 1779.
2 4 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 34.
2 5 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 121.
2 6 . Monroe, View of the Conduct of the Executive, liv.
2 7. Ibid., xlviii.
2 8 . Ibid., xxx.
2 9 . Paine, Complete Writings of Thomas Paine, 705.
3 0 . Ibid.
3 1 . Ibid., 695.
3 2 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 33.
3 3 . Nelson, Thomas Paine, 305.
3 4 . WWF, 35:359.
3 5 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 33.
3 6 . Miles, George and Martha Washington, 39.
3 7. Ibid., 42.
3 8 . Barratt and Miles, Gilbert Stuart, 139.
3 9 . MTV. “Early Descriptions, 1800–1841.”
4 0 . Unger, Unexpected Washington, 232.
4 1 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 276.
4 2 . Flexner, George Washington, 3:196.
43 . Barratt and Miles, Gilbert Stuart, 191.
4 4 . Ibid.
4 5 . Ibid., 193.
4 6 . Ibid.
47. Ibid., 191.
4 8 . Ibid.
4 9 . WWF, 34:458. Letter to Elizabeth Parke Custis,
February 10, 1796.
5 0 . Barratt and Miles, Gilbert Stuart, 192.
5 1 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 62.
5 2 . DiariesA, 415.

5 3 . Ibid., 413.
5 4 . PWRT, 1:266. Letter to George Washington Parke
Custis, July 23, 1797.
5 5 . WWF, 35:295. Letter to George Washington Parke
Custis, November 28, 1796.
5 6 . PWRT, 1:153. Letter to Samuel Stanhope Smith, May
24, 1797.
5 7. Ibid., 1:159. Letter from George Washington Parke
Custis, May 29, 1797.
5 8 . WWR, 907. Letter to Charles Carter, March 10, 1795.
5 9 . WWF, 34:502. Letter to William Pearce, March 20,
1796.
6 0 . Ibid., 34:451. Letter to William Pearce, February 7,
1796.
6 1 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 308.
6 2 . WWR, 911. Letter to William Pearce, May 10, 1795.
63 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 349.
6 4 . WWF, 34:453. Letter to David Stuart, February 7, 1796.
6 5 . Ibid., 35:182. Letter to James Anderson, August 18, 1796.
Chapter Sixty-two: The Master of Farewells
1 . Thompson, Statements Regarding the Physical
Appearance, 47.
2 . Wright, “Pickering’s Letter.”
3 . Stahr, John Jay, 358.
4 . WWF, 35:37. Letter to Governor John Jay, May 8, 1796.
5 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 505.
6 . WWR, 938. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, May 15, 1796.
7. Ibid., 946. “Draft of the Farewell Address,” May 15, 1796.
8 . Ibid., 948.
9 . Ibid., 950. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, June 26, 1796.
1 0 . WWF, 35:104. Letter from Alexander Hamilton, July
5, 1796.
1 1 . Ibid., 35:126. Letter to the Secretary of the Treasury,
July 6, 1796.
1 2 . Ibid., 35:178. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, August
10, 1796.
13 . Ibid., 35:190. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, August
25, 1796.
1 4 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:403.
15 . WWR, 962. “Farewell Address,” September 19, 1796.
1 6 . Ibid., 963.
17. Ibid.
1 8 . Ibid., 965.
1 9 . Ibid., 968.
2 0 . Ellis, His Excellency: George Washington, 237.
2 1 . WWR, 968. “Farewell Address,” September 19, 1796.
2 2 . Ibid., 969.
2 3 . Ibid., 973.
2 4 . Ibid.
2 5 . Ibid.
2 6 . Ibid., 975.
2 7. Ibid., 977.
2 8 . Thompson, Statements Regarding the Physical
Appearance, 54. Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 507.
2 9 . Ketcham, James Madison, 366.
3 0 . Ibid.
3 1 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 37.
3 2 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 508.
3 3 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 226.
3 4 . Cappon, Adams-Jefferson Letters, 349.
3 5 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 226.
3 6 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 103.
3 7. WWF, 34:154. Letter to William Pearce, March 22, 1795.

856

r! Notes

3 8 . Ibid., 34:476. Letter to William Pearce, February 21, 1796.
3 9 . Wilentz, Rise of American Democracy, 62.
4 0 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 30.
4 1 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 224.
4 2 . Brookhiser, Founding Father, 177.
43 . WWR, 594. Letter to Robert Morris, April 12, 1786.
4 4 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 268.
4 5 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 204.
4 6 . Harvey and O’Brien, George Washington’s South, 202.
47. Ibid.
4 8 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 323.
4 9 . Harvey and O’Brien, George Washington’s South, 202.
5 0 . Fields, “Worthy Partner,” 287.
5 1 . WWF, 35:201. Letter to the Secretary of the Treasury,
September 1, 1796.
5 2 . Ibid., 35:202.
5 3 . Ibid.
5 4 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 326.
5 5 . Ibid.
5 6 . WWF, 35:297. Letter to Joseph Whipple, November
28, 1796.
5 7. Ibid.
5 8 . Ibid.
5 9 . Ibid., 35:298.
6 0 . Ibid.
6 1 . PWRT, 4:237. Letter to Burwell Bassett, Jr., August 11,
1799.
6 2 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 332.
63 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 204.
6 4 . PWRT, 2:60. Letter to Frederick Kitt, January 29, 1798.
6 5 . Ibid., 2:16. Letter to Frederick Kitt, January 10, 1798.
6 6 . Harvey and O’Brien, George Washington’s South, 203.
67. PWRT, 1:83.
6 8 . Ibid., 1:422. Letter to Bushrod Washington, October
23, 1797.
6 9 . PWRT, 1:469. Letter to George Lewis, November 13,
1797.
Chapter Sixty-three: Exiting the Stage
1 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:420.
2 . WWR, 985. “Eighth Annual Message to Congress,”
December 7, 1796.
3 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 236.
4 . Sullivan, Public Men of the Revolution, 145.
5 . Smith, John Marshall, 182.
6 . Grant, John Adams, 384.
7. Freeman, George Washington, 7:425.
8 . Nelson, Thomas Paine, 304.
9 . Jefferson, Writings, 1319.
1 0 . DiariesA, 404.
1 1 . Brady, Martha Washington, 211.
1 2 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 237.
13 . WWF, 35:409. Letter to Henry Knox, March 2, 1797.
1 4 . Ibid., 35:412. Letter to Jonathan Trumbull, March 3,
1797.
15 . Ibid.
1 6 . Diaries, 6:236. Diary entry for March 4, 1797.
17. Freeman, George Washington, 7:437.
1 8 . Ibid.
1 9 . Custis, Recollections and Private Memoirs of
Washington, 434.
2 0 . Irving, Life of George Washington, 613.
2 1 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 64.
2 2 . Ibid.

2 3 . Malone, Jefferson and His Time, 3:298.
2 4 . Ibid., 3:307.
2 5 . Rosenfeld, American Aurora, 35.
2 6 . Ibid., 31.
2 7. Ibid., 31–32.
2 8 . Grant, John Adams 387.
2 9 . PWRT, 1:130. Letter to Mary White Morris, May 1,
1797.
3 0 . Ibid., 1:28. Letter from Elizabeth Willing Powel, March
11, 1797.
3 1 . Ibid., 1:29.
3 2 . Ibid., 1:52. Letter to Elizabeth Willing Powel, March
26, 1797.
3 3 . Ibid., 1:25. Letter to Tobias Lear, March 9, 1797.
3 4 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 241.
3 5 . PWRT, 1:71. Letter to James McHenry, April 3, 1797.
3 6 . Wood, Empire of Liberty, 85.
3 7. Magnet, “Alexander Hamilton,” City Journal, Winter
2009.
3 8 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 108.
Chapter Sixty-four: Samson and Solomon
1 . Brady, George Washington’s Beautiful Nelly, 31.
2 . Ibid.
3 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 240–41.
4 . PWRT, 1:79. Letter to James Anderson, April 7, 1797.
5 . Ibid., 1:335. Letter to Lawrence Augustine Washington,
September 3, 1797.
6 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:453.
7. WWR, 1002–3. Letter to Lawrence Lewis, August 4, 1797.
8 . Ibid.
9 . PWRT, 1:53. Letter to Elizabeth Willing Powel, March
26, 1797.
1 0 . WWR, 998. Letter to David Humphreys, June 26, 1797.
1 1 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:469.
1 2 . WWR, 996. Letter to James McHenry, May 29, 1797
13 . Cadou, George Washington Collection, 173.
1 4 . Brady, Martha Washington, 215.
15 . WWR, 996. Letter to James McHenry, May 29, 1797.
1 6 . Ibid., 996–97.
17. Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 84.
1 8 . PWRT, 1:495. Letter to Bartholomew Dandridge, Jr.,
December 3, 1797.
1 9 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 57.
2 0 . PWRT, 2:273. Letter to Sarah Cary Fairfax, May 16, 1798.
2 1 . Ibid., 2:272.
2 2 . Ibid., 2:274.
2 3 . Ibid., 1:79. Letter to James Anderson (of Scotland),
April 7, 1797.
2 4 . Ibid., 2:74. Letter to James Anderson, February 6, 1798.
2 5 . Ibid., 1:378–79. Letter to Thomas Law, October 2,1797.
2 6 . WWF, 35:369. Letter to George Dunnington, January
15, 1797.
2 7. PWRT, 1:247. Letter to Samuel Washington, July 12, 1797.
2 8 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:493.
2 9 . Malone, Jefferson and His Time, 3:267.
3 0 . Ibid., 3:305.
3 1 . Wood, Empire of Liberty, 235–36.
3 2 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 123.
3 3 . Malone, Jefferson and His Time, 3:310.
3 4 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 361.
3 5 . PWRT, 1:313. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, August
21, 1797.
3 6 . Ibid., 1:158. Letter to Thomas Pinckney, May 28, 1797.

Notes r! 857
3 7. Ibid., 1:384. Letter from Lafayette, October 6, 1797.
3 8 . Ibid., 3:282. Letter to Lafayette, December 25, 1798.
3 9 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:496.
4 0 . PWRT, 2:241. Letter to James Lloyd, April 15, 1798.
4 1 . Wood, Empire of Liberty, 245.
4 2 . Brady, George Washington’s Beautiful Nelly, 52.
43 . PWRT, 2:280. Letter from Alexander Hamilton, May
19, 1798.
4 4 . Ibid.
4 5 . Ibid.
4 6 . Ibid., 2:298. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, May 27,
1798.
47. Ibid.
4 8 . Ibid.
4 9 . Ibid., 3:284. Letter to Lafayette, December 25, 1798.
5 0 . Ibid., 2:310. Letter from Alexander Hamilton, June
2, 1798.
5 1 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 86.
5 2 . Ibid.
5 3 . Ibid., 87.
5 4 . PWRT, 2:352. Letter from John Adams, June 22, 1798.
5 5 . Ibid.
5 6 . Ibid., 2:369. Letter to John Adams, July 4, 1798.
5 7. Ibid., 2:370.
5 8 . Ibid., 2:457. Letter to John Trumbull, July 25, 1798.
5 9 . Ibid., 2:383. Letter to James McHenry, July 5, 1798.
6 0 . Ibid., 2:387. Letter from Timothy Pickering, July 6,
1798.
6 1 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 556.
6 2 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 93.
63 . WWR, 1006. Letter to John Adams, July 13, 1798.
6 4 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 558.
6 5 . Ibid.
6 6 . PWRT, 2:425. Letter to Henry Knox, July 16, 1798.
67. Callahan, Henry Knox, 363.
6 8 . PWRT, 2:469. Letter from Henry Knox, July 29, 1798.
6 9 . Ibid., 2:506. Letter to Henry Knox, August 9, 1798.
7 0 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 368.
7 1 . PWRT, 2:563. Letter from Henry Knox, August 26, 1798.
7 2 . Smith, John Marshall, 240.
7 3 . PWRT, 3:59. Letter to James McHenry, September 30,
1798.
74 . Ibid.
7 5 . Smith, John Marshall, 241.
7 6 . PWRT, 3:21. Letter from James McHenry, September
19, 1798.
7 7. Ibid., 2:589. Letter from James McHenry, September
7, 1798.
7 8 . Ibid., 2:609. Letter from Timothy Pickering,
September 13, 1798.
7 9 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 560.
8 0 . PWRT, 3:37. Letter to John Adams, September 25, 1798.
8 1 . Ibid., 3:38.
8 2 . Ibid., 3:41–42.
8 3 . Ibid., 3:42.
8 4 . Ibid., 3:43.
8 5 . PWRT, 3:123. Letter to Henry Knox, October 21, 1798.
8 6 . Callahan, Henry Knox, 372.
8 7. PWRT, 3:241. Letter to Lawrence Lewis, December 2,
1798.
8 8 . Ibid., 3:298. Letter to David Stuart, December 30, 1798.
8 9 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 253.
9 0 . PWRT, 3:246. Letter from Elizabeth Willing Powel,
December 7, 1798.

9 1 . Ibid., 3:247.
9 2 . Bordewich, Washington, 61.
9 3 . Cappon, Adams-Jefferson Letters, 346.
9 4 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 593.
Chapter Sixty-ﬁve: A Mind on the Stretch
1 . Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 570.
2 . WWR, 1016. Letter to Alexander Spotswood, November
22, 1798.
3 . PWRT, 3:287. Letter to William Vans Murray, December
26, 1798.
4 . Ibid., 3:398. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, February
25, 1799.
5 . PWRT, 4:51. Letter to Bushrod Washington, May 5, 1799.
6 . Bordewich, Washington, 209.
7. PWRT, 1:220. Letter to David Humphreys, June 26, 1797.
8 . Bordewich, Washington, 211.
9 . Ibid., 98.
1 0 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 346.
1 1 . Thompson, “They Appear to Live Comfortable
Together.”
1 2 . PWRT, 2:119. Letter to John McDowell, March 5, 1798.
13 . Ibid., 2:448–49. Letter to George Washington Parke
Custis, July 24, 1798.
1 4 . Ibid., 3:179. Letter to Henry Lee, Jr., November 4, 1798.
15 . Ibid., 3:291. Letter to Richard Raynal Keene, December
28, 1798.
1 6 . Ibid., 3:471. Letter to James Welch, April 7, 1799.
17. Ibid., 4:423. Letter to Alexander Addison, November
24, 1799.
1 8 . Ibid., 4:296. Letter to James McHenry, September 14,
1799.
1 9 . Ibid., 4:297.
2 0 . Ibid., 2:109. Letter to William Augustine Washington,
February 27, 1798.
2 1 . Ibid., 4:292. Letter to James Anderson, September 10,
1799.
2 2 . Ibid., 4:144. Letter from Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., June
22, 1799.
2 3 . WWR, 1044. Letter to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., July 21,
1799.
2 4 . Ibid.
2 5 . Ibid.
2 6 . Ibid., 1045.
2 7. Ibid.
2 8 . PWRT, 4:275–76. Letter to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr.,
August 30, 1799.
2 9 . Ibid., 4:276.
3 0 . Ibid.
3 1 . Ibid., 4:373. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, October
27, 1799.
3 2 . Ibid., 4:401. Letter from James McHenry, November
10, 1799.
3 3 . Ibid., 4:410. Letter to James McHenry, November 17,
1799.
3 4 . Ibid., 4:453. Letter from Gouverneur Morris,
December 9, 1799.
3 5 . Ibid.
Chapter Sixty-six: Freedom
1 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 68.
2 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 348.
3 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 79.
4 . Ibid.

85 8

r! Notes

5 . Wiencek, Imperfect God, 351.
6 . Ibid., 352.
7. PWRT, 2:613. Letter to Alexander Spotswood,
September 14, 1798.
8 . Ibid., 4:256. Letter to Robert Lewis, August 17, 1799.
9 . Ibid., 4:256–57.
1 0 . Ibid., 2:615.
1 1 . Ibid., 1:404. Letter to William Stoy, October 14, 1797.
1 2 . Harvey and O’Brien, George Washington’s South, 197.
13 . Freeman, George Washington, 7:583.
1 4 . PWRT, 4:491. “George Washington’s Last Will and
Testament,” July 9, 1799.
15 . Ibid., 4:479.
1 6 . Ibid., 4:480.
17. Ibid.
1 8 . Ibid.
1 9 . Ibid.
2 0 . Ibid.
2 1 . Ibid., 4:480–81.
2 2 . Ibid., 4:482.
2 3 . Ibid., 4:489.
2 4 . DiariesA, 426.
2 5 . WWR, 1050. Letter to Burges Ball, September 22, 1799.
Chapter Sixty-seven: Homecoming
1 . PWRT, 1:520. Letter from Martha Washington to
Elizabeth Willing Powel, December 17, 1797.
2 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 89.
3 . MTV. “Early Descriptions Ante 1800.” Howell Lewis,
December 9, 1799.
4 . Burns and Dunn, George Washington, 136.
5 . WWR, 1051. Letter to Alexander Hamilton, December
12, 1799.
6 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 192.
7. DiariesA, 428. Diary entry for December 12, 1799.
8 . WWR, 1052. Letter to James Anderson, December 13,
1799.
9 . PWRT, 4:548.
1 0 . DiariesA, 428.
1 1 . Ibid., 429.
1 2 . Ibid.
13 . Ibid.
1 4 . Henriques, Realistic Visionary, 202.
15 . Ibid.
1 6 . DiariesA, 430.
17. Ibid., 430.
1 8 . PWRT, 4:545.

1 9 . DiariesA, 430.
2 0 . Ibid.
2 1 . Ibid., 431.
2 2 . Ibid.
2 3 . Ibid.
2 4 . PWRT 4:491. “George Washington’s Last Will and
Testament,” July 9, 1799.
2 5 . Lee, Experiencing Mount Vernon, 104.
2 6 . Furstenberg, In the Name of the Father, 26.
2 7. Chernow, Alexander Hamilton, 601.
2 8 . Ibid.
2 9 . Cappon, Adams-Jefferson Letters, 488.
3 0 . DiariesA, 423.
3 1 . Furstenberg, In the Name of the Father, 32.
3 2 . Wills, Cincinnatus, 32.
3 3 . Unger, Unexpected George Washington, 266.
3 4 . Weintraub, George Washington’s Christmas Farewell,
66.
3 5 . Schutz and Adair, Spur of Fame, 229.
3 6 . Neely, “Mason Locke Weems’s Life.”
3 7. Furstenberg, “Spinning the Revolution,” New York
Times, July 4, 2006.
3 8 . Furstenberg, In the Name of the Father, 135.
3 9 . Ibid., 121.
4 0 . Smith, John Marshall, 331.
4 1 . Ibid.
4 2 . Brady, Martha Washington, 226.
43 . Decatur, Private Affairs of George Washington, 306.
4 4 . MTV. “Early Descriptions 1800–1841.” Letter from
Sally Foster Otis to Mrs. Charles W. Apthorp, January 13,
1801.
4 5 . MTV. “Early Descriptions 1800–1841.” Diary of
Manasseh Cutler, January 2, 1802.
4 6 . PWRT, 4:494.
47. MTV. “Early Descriptions 1800–1841.” Abigail Adams
letter, December 21, 1800.
4 8 . Bryan, First Lady of Liberty, 378.
4 9 . PWRT, 4:494.
5 0 . MTV. “Early Descriptions 1800–1841.” Undated letter
by Sir Augustus John Foster.
5 1 . Malone, Jefferson and the Ordeal of Liberty, 3:443.
5 2 . Smith, Correspondence and Miscellanies of the Hon.
John Cotton Smith, 224.
5 3 . Smith, John Marshall, 19.
5 4 . MTV. “Early Descriptions 1800–1841.” Diary of
Manasseh Cutler, January 2, 1802.
5 5 . Brady, Martha Washington, 229.

Bibl iogr a ph y
BOOKS
Adams, Herbert Baxter. The Life and Writings of Jared Sparks. 2 vols. Boston: Houghton
Mifﬂin, 1893.
Addison, Joseph. Cato: A Tragedy, and Selected Essays. Reprint, Indianapolis: Liberty Fund,
2004.
Anderson, Fred. Crucible of War: The Seven Years’ War and the Fate of Empire in British
North America, 1754–1766. Reprint, New York: Vintage Books, 2001.
———. George Washington Remembers: Reﬂections on the French & Indian War. Lanham,
Md.: Rowman & Littleﬁeld, 2004.
Barratt, Carrie Rebora, and Ellen G. Miles. Gilbert Stuart. New York: Metropolitan Museum
of Art; New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 2004.
Baxter, Katharine Schuyler. A Godchild of Washington: A Picture of the Past. New York:
F. Tennyson Neely, 1898.
Berg, Scott W. Grand Avenues: The Story of Pierre Charles L’Enfant, the French Visionary
Who Designed Washington, D.C. New York: Pantheon Books, 2007.
Blassingame, J. W., ed. Slave Testimony: Two Centuries of Letters, Speeches, Interviews, and
Autobiographies. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1977.
Bordewich, Fergus M. Washington: The Making of the American Capital. New York:
Amistad / HarperCollins, 2008.
Brady, Patricia. Martha Washington: An American Life. New York: Viking, 2005.
———, ed. George Washington’s Beautiful Nelly: The Letters of Eleanor Parke Custis Lewis
to Elizabeth Bordley Gibson, 1794–1851. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press,
1991.
Brookhiser, Richard. Founding Father: Rediscovering George Washington. New York: Free
Press, 1996.
Bryan, Helen. Martha Washington: First Lady of Liberty. New York: John Wiley & Sons, 2002.
Burns, James MacGregor, and Susan Dunn. George Washington. New York: Times Books /
Henry Holt, 2004.
Burr, Aaron. Political Correspondence and Public Papers of Aaron Burr. 2 vols. Edited by
Mary-Jo Kline. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1983.
Burstein, Andrew. The Original Knickerbocker: The Life of Washington Irving. New York:
Basic Books, 2006.
Cadou, Carol Borchert. The George Washington Collection: Fine and Decorative Arts at
Mount Vernon. Manchester, N.Y.: Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association / Hudson Hills
Press, 2006.
Callahan, North. Henry Knox: General Washington’s General. New York: Rinehart, 1958.
Cappon, Lester J., ed. The Adams-Jefferson Letters: The Complete Correspondence Between
Thomas Jefferson and Abigail and John Adams. Reprint, Chapel Hill and London:

86 0

r! Bibliography

Published for the Omohundro Institute of Early American History and Culture at Williamsburg, Virginia, 1959.
Casper, Scott E. Sarah Johnson’s Mount Vernon: The Forgotten History of an American Shrine.
New York: Hill & Wang, 2008.
Chernow, Ron. Alexander Hamilton. New York: Penguin Press, 2004.
Chinard, Gilbert. George Washington as the French Knew Him. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton
University Press, 1940.
Conkling, Margaret C. Memoirs of the Mother and Wife of Washington. Auburn, N.Y.: Derby,
Miller, 1850.
Conway, Moncure Daniel. Omitted Chapters of History Disclosed in the Life and Papers of
Edmund Randolph. New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1888.
Cunliffe, Marcus. George Washington: Man and Monument. Reprint, New York: New American Library, 1958.
Custis, George Washington Parke. Recollections and Private Memoirs of Washington. New
York: Derby & Jackson, 1860.
Dalzell, Robert F., Jr., and Lee Baldwin Dalzell. George Washington’s Mount Vernon: At Home
in Revolutionary America. New York: Oxford University Press, 1998.
Darnton, Robert. George Washington’s False Teeth: An Unconventional Guide to the Eighteenth Century. New York: W. W. Norton, 2003.
Decatur, Stephen, Jr. Private Affairs of George Washington: From the Records and Accounts of
Tobias Lear, Esquire, His Secretary. Boston: Houghton Mifﬂin, 1933.
Elkins, Stanley, and Eric McKitrick. The Age of Federalism: The Early American Republic,
1788–1800. New York: Oxford University Press, 1993.
Ellis, Joseph. His Excellency: George Washington. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2004.
———. American Creation: Triumphs and Tragedies at the Founding of the Republic. New
York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2007.
Evans, Dorinda. The Genius of Gilbert Stuart. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1999.
Felder, Paula S. Fielding Lewis and the Washington Family: A Chronicle of 18th Century Fredericksburg. Fredericksburg, Va.: The American History Company, 1998.
Ferling, John E. The Ascent of George Washington: The Hidden Political Genius of an American Icon. New York: Bloomsbury Press, 2009.
Fields, Joseph E., ed. “Worthy Partner”: The Papers of Martha Washington. Westport, Conn.:
Greenwood Press, 1994.
Fischer, David Hackett. Washington’s Crossing. New York: Oxford University Press, 2004.
Fitzpatrick, John C., ed. The Writings of George Washington. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Ofﬁce, 1931–44.
Flexner, James Thomas. George Washington. 4 vols. Boston: Little, Brown, 1965–72.
Freeman, Douglas Southall. George Washington: A Biography. 7 vols. New York: Charles
Scribner’s Sons, 1948–57. Volume 7 completed by John A. Carroll and Mary W.
Ashworth.
Fulford, Roger. Hanover to Windsor. London: B. T. Batsford, 1960.
Furstenberg, François. In the Name of the Father: Washington’s Legacy, Slavery, and the Making of a Nation. New York: Penguin Press, 2006.

Bibliography r! 861

Gaines, James R. For Liberty and Glory: Washington, Lafayette, and Their Revolutions. New
York: W. W. Norton, 2007.
Goldwin, Robert A. From Parchment to Power: How James Madison Used the Bill of Rights to
Save the Constitution. Washington, D.C.: AEI Press, 1997.
Golway, Terry. Washington’s General: Nathanael Greene and the Triumph of the American
Revolution. New York: Henry Holt, 2005.
Gordon-Reed, Annette. The Hemingses of Monticello: An American Family. New York: W. W.
Norton, 2008.
Grant, James. John Adams: Party of One. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 2005.
Griswold, Mac. Washington’s Gardens at Mount Vernon: Landscape of the Inner Man. Boston:
Houghton Mifﬂin, 1999.
Grizzard, Frank E., Jr. George! A Guide to All Things Washington. Charlottesville, Va.: Mariner, 2005.
Guerrero, Linda Dudik. John Adams’ Vice-Presidency, 1789–1797: The Neglected Man in the
Forgotten Ofﬁce. New York: Arno Press, 1982.
Hague, William. William Pitt the Younger: A Biography. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2005.
Harvey, Tamara, and Greg O’Brien, eds. George Washington’s South. Gainesville: University
Press of Florida, 2003.
Hayden, Sidney. Washington and His Masonic Compeers. New York: Masonic Publishing and
Manufacturing Co., 1866.
Henriques, Peter R. Realistic Visionary: A Portrait of George Washington. Charlottesville:
University of Virginia Press, 2006.
Hervey, N. The Memory of Washington with Biographical Sketches of His Mother and Wife.
Boston: James Munroe, 1852.
Higginbotham, Don, ed. George Washington Reconsidered. Charlottesville: University of
Virginia Press, 2001.
Hitchens, Christopher. Thomas Jefferson: Author of America. New York: Atlas Books /
HarperCollins, 2005.
Hochschild, Adam. Bury the Chains: Prophets and Rebels in the Fight to Free an Empire’s
Slaves. Boston: Houghton Mifﬂin, 2004.
Humphreys, David. The Conduct of General Washington Respecting the Conﬁnement of Capt.
Asgill. New York: Holland Club, 1859.
Irving, Washington. The Life of George Washington. New York: William L. Allison Co., 1859.
Isaac, Rhys. Landon Carter’s Uneasy Kingdom: Revolution and Rebellion on a Virginia Plantation. Reprint, New York: Oxford University Press, 2004.
Isaacson, Walter. Benjamin Franklin: An American Life. New York: Simon & Schuster, 2003.
Isenberg, Nancy. Fallen Founder: The Life of Aaron Burr. New York: Viking, 2007.
Jefferson, Thomas. Writings. Edited by Merrill D. Peterson. New York: Library of America,
19 8 4 .
Kagan, Robert. Dangerous Nation: America’s Place in the World from Its Earliest Days to the
Dawn of the Twentieth Century. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2006.
Kaminski, John P., and Jill Adair McCaughan, eds. A Great and Good Man: George Washington
in the Eyes of His Contemporaries. Reprint, Lanham, Md.: Rowman & Littleﬁeld, 2007.

862

r! Bibliography

Ketcham, Ralph. James Madison: A Biography. Charlottesville: University of Virginia Press,
1971.
Ketchum, Richard M. Victory at Yorktown: The Campaign That Won the Revolution. New
York: Henry Holt, 2004.
Kohn, Richard H. Eagle and Sword: The Federalists and the Creation of the Military Establishment in America, 1783–1802. New York: Free Press, 1975.
Lee, Jean B. Experiencing Mount Vernon: Eyewitness Accounts, 1784–1865. Charlottesville
and London: University of Virginia Press, 2006.
Leibiger, Stuart. Founding Friendship: George Washington, James Madison, and the Creation
of the American Republic. Reprint, Charlottesville: University of Virginia Press, 2001.
Lengel, Edward G. General George Washington: A Military Life. New York: Random House,
2005.
Longmore, Paul K. The Invention of George Washington. Berkeley: University of California
Press, 1988.
Lossing, Benson J. Martha Washington. New York: J. C. Buttre, 1861.
McCammant, Wallace. George Washington the Mason. N.p.: Kessinger Publishing, n.d.
McCullough, David. John Adams. New York: Simon & Schuster, 2001.
———. 1776. New York: Simon & Schuster, 2005.
McDonald, Forrest. The Presidency of George Washington. Lawrence: University Press of
Kansas, 1974.
Maclay, William. The Diary of William Maclay and Other Notes on Senate Debates. Edited by
Kenneth R. Bowling and Helen E. Veit. Reprint, Baltimore and London: Johns Hopkins
University Press, 1988.
McVickar, John. A Domestic Narrative of the Life of Samuel Bard, M.D. New York: A. Paul,
1822.
Malone, Dumas. Jefferson and His Time. Vol. 3, Jefferson and the Ordeal of Liberty. Boston:
Little, Brown, 1962.
Marshall, John. The Life of George Washington. Reprint, Indianapolis: Liberty Fund, 2000.
Martin, Joseph Plumb. Private Yankee Doodle: Being a Narrative of Some of the Adventures,
Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier. Edited by George E. Scheer. Reprint,
N.p.: Eastern National, 2006.
Maxey, David W. A Portrait of Elizabeth Willing Powel. Philadelphia: American Philosophical Society, 2006.
Middlekauff, Robert. The Glorious Cause: The American Revolution, 1763–1789. Reprint,
New York: Oxford University Press, 2005.
Miles, Ellen G. George and Martha Washington: Portraits from the Presidential Years. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, National Portrait Gallery, in association with the
University Press of Virginia, 1999.
Monroe, James. A View of the Conduct of the Executive in the Foreign Affairs of the United
States, Connected with the Mission to the French Republic During the Years 1794, 5, & 6.
Philadelphia: Benjamin Franklin Bache, 1797. (George Washington’s personal copy in
the Houghton Library, Harvard University.)
Morgan, Edmund S. The Genius of George Washington. New York: W. W. Norton, 1980.

Bibliography r! 863

———. American Heroes: Proﬁles of Men and Women Who Shaped Early America. New
York: W. W. Norton, 2009.
Nelson, Craig. Thomas Paine: Enlightenment, Revolution, and the Birth of Modern Nations.
New York: Viking, 2006.
Paine, Thomas. The Complete Writings of Thomas Paine. Vol. 2. Edited by Phillip S. Foner.
New York: Citadel Press, 1945.
Palmer, Dave R. George Washington and Benedict Arnold: A Tale of Two Patriots. Washington, D.C.: Regnery, 2006.
Puls, Mark. Samuel Adams: Father of the American Revolution. New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2006.
Rakove, Jack N. Original Meanings: Politics and Ideas in the Making of the Constitution. New
York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1996.
Ramsay, David. The Life of George Washington. London: T. Cadell & W. Davies, 1807.
Randolph, Edmund. A Vindication of Edmund Randolph. Richmond: Charles H. Wynne, 1855.
Randolph, John [Supposed author of forgeries]. Epistles domestic, conﬁdential, and ofﬁcial
from General Washington. New York: G. Robinson & J. Pull, 1796.
Reardon, John J. Edmund Randolph: A Biography. New York: Macmillan, 1974.
Rosenfeld, Richard N. American Aurora: A Democratic Republican Returns. New York: St.
Martin’s / Grifﬁn, 1997.
Schama, Simon. Citizens: A Chronicle of the French Revolution. New York: Alfred A. Knopf,
1989.
Schecter, Barnet. The Battle for New York: The City at the Heart of the American Revolution.
New York: Walker, 2002.
Schiff, Stacy. A Great Improvisation: Franklin, France, and the Birth of America. New York:
Henry Holt, 2005.
Schutz, John A., and Douglass Adair, eds. The Spur of Fame: Dialogues of John Adams and
Benjamin Rush, 1805–1813. San Marino, Calif.: Huntington Library, 1966.
Schwarz, Philip J., ed. Slavery at the Home of George Washington. Mount Vernon, Va.: Mount
Vernon Ladies’ Association, 2002.
Smith, Jean Edward. John Marshall: Deﬁner of a Nation. Reprint, New York: Henry Holt,
1996.
Smith, John Cotton. The Correspondence and Miscellanies of the Hon. John Cotton Smith,
LLD. New York: Harper & Brothers, 1847.
Smith, Richard Norton. Patriarch: George Washington and the New American Nation. Boston: Houghton Mifﬂin, 1993.
Stahr, Walter. John Jay: Founding Father. New York and London: Hambledon & London, 2005.
Stephenson, Michael. Patriot Battles: How the War of Independence Was Fought. New York:
HarperCollins, 2007.
Stoll, Ira. Samuel Adams: A Life. New York: Free Press, 2008.
Sullivan, William. The Public Men of the Revolution. Philadelphia: Carey & Hart, 1847.
Thompson, Mary V. “In the Hands of a Good Providence”: Religion in the Life of George
Washington. Charlottesville: University of Virginia Press, 2008.
———, ed. Memorandum for the Martha Washington Anniversary Committee. Compiled

864

r! Bibliography

for Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association between 7/31/2001 and 4/7/2008. Typescript at
Mount Vernon Library.
———, ed. Statements Regarding the Physical Appearance, Traits and Personal Characteristics of George Washington (1732–1799). Compiled for Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association between 1/31/2005 and 2/5/2008. Typescript at Mount Vernon Library.
Trumbull, John. The Autobiography of Colonel John Trumbull. New Haven, Conn.: Yale
University Press, 1958.
Unger, Harlow Giles. Lafayette. Hoboken, N.J.: John Wiley & Sons, 2002.
———. The Unexpected George Washington: His Private Life. Hoboken, N.J.: John Wiley &
Sons, 2006.
Van Doren, Carl. Benjamin Franklin. New York: Viking Press, 1938.
Washington, George. George Washington, Writings. Edited by John Rhodehamel. New York:
Library of America, 1997.
———. George Washington’s Diaries: An Abridgment. Edited by Dorothy Twohig. Charlottesville: University of Virginia Press, 1999.
Weber, Caroline. Queen of Fashion: What Marie Antoinette Wore to the Revolution. Reprint:
New York: Picador / Henry Holt, 2006.
Weems, Mason L. The Life of Washington. Reprint, Cambridge, Mass.: Belknap Press of
Harvard University Press, 1962.
Weintraub, Stanley. General Washington’s Christmas Farewell: A Mount Vernon Homecoming, 1783. New York: Penguin Group, 2004.
Wiencek, Henry. An Imperfect God: George Washington, His Slaves, and the Creation of
America. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 2003.
Wilentz, Sean. The Rise of American Democracy: Jefferson to Lincoln. New York: W. W. Norton, 2005.
Wills, Garry. Cincinnatus: George Washington and the Enlightenment. Garden City, N.Y.:
Doubleday, 1984.
Winik, Jay. The Great Upheaval: America and the Birth of the Modern World, 1788–1800.
New York: HarperCollins, 2007.
Wood, Gordon S. Revolutionary Characters: What Made the Founders Different. New York:
Penguin Press, 2006.
———. Empire of Liberty: A History of the Early Republic, 1789–1815. New York: Oxford
University Press, 2009.
Zimmerman, Jean. The Women of the House: How a Colonial She-Merchant Built a Mansion,
a Fortune, and a Dynasty. Orlando, Fla.: Harcourt, 2006.

ARTICLES
Abbot, W. W. “An Uncommon Awareness of Self: The Papers of George Washington.” Prologue: Quarterly of the National Archives, Spring 1989.
Anderson, Fred W. “The Hinge of the Revolution: George Washington Confronts a People’s
Army, July 3, 1775.” Massachusetts Historical Review 1 (1999).

Bibliography r! 865

———. “The Lost Founders.” New York Review of Books, September 21, 2006.
Barratt, Carrie Rebora. “Faces of a New Nation: American Portraits of the 18th and Early
19th Centuries.” Metropolitan Museum of Art Bulletin, Summer 2003.
Batchelder, Samuel. “Col. Henry Vassall and His Wife Penelope Vassall with Some Account
of His Slaves.” Proceedings of the Cambridge Historical Society 10 (January 26–October
26, 1915).
Bickham, Troy. “Sympathizing with Sedition? George Washington, the British Press, and
British Attitudes during the American War of Independence.” William and Mary Quarterly 59, no. 1 (January 2002).
Brookhiser, Richard. “George Washington, Founding CEO.” American Heritage, Spring–
Summer 2008.
Brown, Lawrence Parmly. “The Antiquities of Dental Prosthesis: Part III, Section 2, Eighteenth Century.” Dental Cosmos 76, no. 11 (November 1934).
Bryan, Mark Evans. “ ‘Slideing into Monarchical Extravagance’: Cato at Valley Forge and
the Testimony of William Bradford Jr.” William and Mary Quarterly, 3rd ser., 67, no. 1
(January 2010).
Burrows, Edwin G. “Patriots or Terrorists?” American Heritage, Fall 2008.
Conway, Stephen. “The British Army, ‘Military Europe,’ and the American War of Independence.” William and Mary Quarterly, 3rd ser., 67, no. 1 (January 2010).
Desportes, Ulysse. “Giuseppe Ceracchi in America and His Busts of George Washington.”
Art Quarterly 26, no. 2 (1963).
Ferling, John. “Myths of the American Revolution.” Smithsonian, January 2010.
Fleming, Thomas. “George Washington in Love.” American Heritage, Fall 2009.
———. “Wall Street’s First Collapse.” American Heritage, Winter 2009.
Fund, John H. “George Washington, Whiskey Entrepreneur.” Wall Street Journal, February
21, 2007.
Henriques, Peter R. “The Final Struggle Between George Washington and the Grim King:
Washington’s Attitude Toward Death and an Afterlife.” Virginia Magazine of History and
Biography 107, no. 1 (Winter 1999).
———. “Another Sally Hemings Case? The Relationship Between George Washington and
West Ford.” Unpublished talk, April 26, 2005. Copy in possession of the author.
———. “Saint or Shrew? George Washington’s Controversial Relationship with His
Mother, Mary Ball Washington.” Unpublished talk, February 12, 2008. Copy in possession of the author.
Jackman, S. W. “A Young Englishman Reports on the New Nation: Edward Thornton to
James Bland Burges, 1791–1793.” William and Mary Quarterly, 3rd ser., 18, no. 1 (January 1961).
Kail, Wendy. “The Correspondence of George and Martha Washington.” Papers of George
Washington, http://gwpapers.virginia.edu/articles.
Kelly, Catherine E. “Face Value: George Washington and Portrait Prints.” Common-place 7,
no. 3 (April 2007).
Kennicott, Philip. “Plain as Dirt: History Without Gimmickry.” Washington Post, July 4,
2007.

866

r! Bibliography

Killian, Tom. “Mount Vernon: Elite & Vernacular.” Material Culture, Fall 2005.
Leibiger, Stuart. “ ‘To Judge of Washington’s Conduct’: Illuminating George Washington’s
Appearance on the World Stage.” Virginia Magazine of History and Biography 107, no. 1
(Winter 1999).
Lepore, Jill. “Back Issues.” New Yorker, January 26, 2009.
———. “I.O.U.” New Yorker, April 13, 2009.
Lipset, Seymour Martin. “George Washington and the Founding of Democracy.” Journal of
Democracy 9, no. 4 (October 1988).
Lombardi, Michael J. “Taking the Measure of Washington . . . Once More.” Colonial Williamsburg, Summer 2005.
Magnet, Myron. “Alexander Hamilton, Modern America’s Founding Father.” City Journal,
Winter 2009.
Meade, Robert Douthat. “Gov. Fauquier—Friend of Jefferson.” Richmond Times-Dispatch,
July 7, 1935.
Morgan, Edmund S. “Jefferson & Betrayal.” New York Review of Books, June 26, 2008.
Morgan, Kenneth. “George Washington and the Problem of Slavery.” Journal of American
Studies 34 (2000).
Morgan, Marie, and Edmund S. Morgan. “Jefferson’s Concubine.” New York Review of
Books, October 9, 2008.
Morgan, Philip D. “ ‘To Get Quit of Negroes’: George Washington and Slavery.” Journal of
American Studies 39, no. 3 (2005).
Neely, Sylvia. “Mason Locke Weems’s Life of George Washington and the Myth of Braddock’s
Defeat.” Virginia Magazine of History and Biography 107, no. 1 (Winter 1999).
Pogue, Dennis J. “Slave Lifeways at Mount Vernon: An Archaeological Perspective.” Presentation to the symposium “Slavery in the Age of George Washington,” Mount Vernon,
November 3, 1994. Mount Vernon Web site.
———. “The Domestic Architecture of Slavery at George Washington’s Mount Vernon.”
Henry Francis du Pont Winterthur Museum, 2002.
Riley, John P. “ ‘Written with My Own Hand’: George Washington’s Last Will and Testament,” Virginia Cavalcade 48, no. 4 (Autumn 1999).
Sayen, William Guthrie. “George Washington’s ‘Unmannerly’ Behavior: The Clash Between
Civility and Honor.” Virginia Magazine of History and Biography, 107, no. 1 (Winter
1999).
Scheer, George F. “Why Washington Stood Up in the Boat.” American Heritage, December
1964.
Schulte, Brigid. “Fresh Look at Martha Washington: Less First Frump, More Foxy Lady.”
Washington Post, February 2, 2009.
Schwartz, Jeffrey H. “Putting a Face on the First President.” Scientiﬁc American, February
2006.
Shaw, Diane Windham. “Lafayette and Slavery.” Lafayette Alumni News Magazine, Winter
2007.
Smith, Richard Norton. “The Surprising George Washington, Part 2.” Prologue: Quarterly of
the National Archives, Spring 1994.

Bibliography r! 86 7

Smyk, Edward A., ed. “Washington and the Dey Mansion.” Wayne, N.J.: Passaic County
Board of Chosen Freeholders for the Dey Mansion, 2009.
Sognnaes, Reidar F. “America’s Most Famous Teeth: The Truth at Last About George Washington’s Dentures Can Be Made ‘A Parade of.’ ” Smithsonian 3, no. 11 (February 1973).
Thompson, Mary V. “ ‘They Appear to Live Comfortable Together’: Private Life of the
Mount Vernon Slaves.” Presentation to the symposium “Slavery in the Age of Washington,” Mount Vernon, November 3, 1994. Mount Vernon Web site.
———. “ ‘The Only Unavoidable Subject of Regret’: George Washington and Slavery.”
Presentation to symposium “George Washington and Alexandria, Virginia: Ties That
Bind,” Alexandria, February 20, 1999. Mount Vernon Web site.
———. “The Lives of Enslaved Workers on George Washington’s Outlying Farms.” Presentation to the Neighborhood Friends of Mount Vernon, June 16, 1999. Mount Vernon
Web site.
———. “Houdon’s Bust of Washington.” Mount Vernon Annual Report, 2000.
———. “ ‘More to dread . . . than from the Sword of the Enemy.’ ” Mount Vernon Annual
Report, 2000.
———. “ ‘As If I had Been a Very Great Somebody’: Martha Washington in the American
Revolution; Becoming the New Nation’s First Lady.” Presentation to the Annual George
Washington Symposium, Mount Vernon, November 9, 2002. Mount Vernon Web site.
Toner, J. M. “The Youth of George Washington.” Magazine of American History 27 (May
1892).
———. “Washington and His Mother.” Magazine of American History 28 (November 1892).
Wallenborn, White McKenzie. “George Washington’s Terminal Illness: A Modern Medical
Analysis of the Last Illness and Death of George Washington.” 1999. Papers of George
Washington, http://www.gwpapers.virginia.edu/documents/index.html.
Warren, Jack D. “Books at Mount Vernon.” Papers of George Washington, http://gwpapers
.virginia.edu/articles/warren.html.
Wetherell, W. D. “On the Trail of Benedict Arnold.” American Heritage, April–May 2007.
Wilford, John Noble. “Archaeologists Agree: Young Washington Slept Here.” New York
Times, July 3, 2008.
Wood, Gordon S. “The Shopper’s Revolution.” New York Review of Books, June 10, 2004.
———. “The Making of a Disaster.” New York Review of Books, April 28, 2005.
———. “American Religion: The Great Retreat.” New York Review of Books, June 8, 2006.
———. “Reading the Founders’ Minds.” New York Review of Books, June 28, 2007.
Wright, John Womack. “Pickering’s Letter on Washington.” Tyler’s Quarterly Magazine 7
(July 1925).
Zax, David. “Washington’s Boyhood Home.” Smithsonian, September 2008.

Illustration Permissions

In order of appearance
FRONTISPIECE

George Washington (1732–1799), by Charles Willson Peale (1741–1827)
Oil on canvas, 1787
Courtesy of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, Philadelphia. Bequest of Mrs.
Sarah Harrison (The Joseph Harrison, Jr., Collection)

PART TITLE PAGES

George Washington in the Uniform of a British Colonial Colonel, by Charles Willson Peale
(1741–1827)
Oil on canvas, 1772
Washington-Custis-Lee Collection, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia
Martha Dandridge Custis (1731–1802), by John Wollaston (active 1742–1775)
Oil on canvas, 1757
Washington-Custis-Lee Collection, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia
George Washington at Princeton, by Charles Willson Peale (1741–1827)
Oil on canvas, 1779
Courtesy of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, Philadelphia. Bequest of Mrs.
Sarah Harrison (The Joseph Harrison, Jr., Collection)
Bust of George Washington, by Jean-Antoine Houdon (1741–1828)
Terra-cotta, 1785
Courtesy of the Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association
George Washington, by Gilbert Stuart (1755–1828)
Oil on canvas, 1795–1796
Copyright the Frick Collection, New York
Apotheosis of Washington, by David Edwin (1776–1841), after Rembrandt Peale
(1778–1860)
Stipple engraving on paper, ca. 1800
National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institution / Art Resource, NY

87 0

r! Illustration Permissions

ILLUSTRATION INSERT

Lawrence Washington (ca. 1718–1752), possibly by John Wollaston (active 1742–1775)
Oil on canvas, ca. 1743
Courtesy of the Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association
Lieutenant Governor Robert Dinwiddie (1693–1770), by an unknown artist
Oil on canvas, ca. 1760–1765
© National Portrait Gallery, London
Sarah “Sally” Cary Fairfax (ca. 1730–1811), by Duncan Smith (1877–1934)
Oil on canvas, early twentieth century
The Virginia Historical Society
George William Fairfax (1724–1787), by an unknown artist
Oil on wood panel, 1773 or after
© Trustees of Leeds Castle Foundation, Maidstone, Kent, UK
Martha Washington (1731–1802), by Charles Willson Peale (1741–1827)
Miniature, watercolor on ivory, 1772
Courtesy of the Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association
John Parke “Jacky” Custis (1754–1781), by Charles Willson Peale (1741–1827)
Miniature, watercolor on ivory, 1772
Courtesy of an anonymous lender
Martha Parke “Patsy” Custis (1756–1773), by Charles Willson Peale (1741–1827)
Miniature, watercolor on ivory, 1772
Courtesy of the Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association
George Washington, by John Trumbull (1756–1843)
Oil on canvas, 1780
The Metropolitan Museum of Art / Art Resource, NY
General Charles Lee (1732–1782), by I. Neagle
Engraving, n.d.
Emmet Collection, Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Division of Art, Prints and Photographs,
The New York Public Library, Astor, Lenox and Tilden Foundations
General Horatio Gates (1727–1806), by Gilbert Stuart (1755–1828)
Oil on canvas, ca. 1793–1794
The Metropolitan Museum of Art / Art Resource, NY

Illustration Permissions r! 87 1

Henry Knox (1750–1806), by Gilbert Stuart (1755–1828)
Oil on panel, ca. 1805
121.6 x 98.11 cm (477⁄8 x 385⁄8 in.)
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Deposited by the City of Boston, L-R 30.76b. Photograph ©
2010 Museum of Fine Arts, Boston
Nathanael Greene (1742–1786), by Charles Willson Peale (1741–1827)
Oil on canvas, from life, ca. 1783
Independence National Historical Park
Phillis Wheatley (ca. 1753–1784), by Scipio Moorhead
Engraving, frontispiece from Phillis Wheatley, Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and
Moral (London: A. Bell, 1773)
Courtesy of the Library of Congress
John Adams (1735–1826), by Charles Willson Peale (1741–1827)
Oil on canvas, from life, ca. 1791–1794
Independence National Historical Park
Sir Henry Clinton (ca. 1730–1795), by Thomas Day (active 1768–1788)
Miniature, watercolor on ivory, 1787
Courtesy of the R. W. Norton Art Gallery, Shreveport, Louisiana
Charles Cornwallis, First Marquess Cornwallis (1738–1805), by Thomas Gainsborough
(ca. 1727–1788)
Oil on canvas, feigned oval, 1783
© National Portrait Gallery, London
Benedict Arnold (1741–1801), after John Trumbull (1756–1843)
Engraving, ca. 1894
Courtesy of the Library of Congress
Margaret “Peggy” Shippen (Mrs. Benedict Arnold) (1760–1804), by John André
(1750–1780)
Graphite on paper, 1778
Yale University Art Gallery
Washington, Lafayette, and Tilghman at Yorktown, by Charles Willson Peale (1741–1827)
Oil on canvas, 1784
93˝ x 64˝
Accession number: MSA SC 1545–1120. Collection of the Maryland State Archives
Alexander Hamilton (1755–1804), after Charles Willson Peale (1741–1827)
Oil on canvas, late eighteenth or early nineteenth century
Collection of the New-York Historical Society, 1841.2

872

r! Illustration Permissions

“Baron” von Steuben (1730–1794), by Ralph Earl (1751–1801)
Oil on canvas, ca. 1786
Yale University Art Gallery. Gift of Mrs. Paul Moore in memory of her nephew Howard
Melville Hanna, Jr., B.S. 1931
Mrs. Samuel Powel (née Elizabeth Willing, 1743–1830), by Matthew Pratt (1734–1805)
Oil on canvas, ca. 1793
Courtesy of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, Philadelphia. Henry D. Gilpin
Fund
James Madison (1751–1836), by Gilbert Stuart (1755–1828)
Oil on canvas, ca. 1805–1807
Bowdoin College Museum of Art, Brunswick, Maine. Bequest of the Honorable James
Bowdoin III
Thomas Jefferson (1743–1826), by Charles Willson Peale (1741–1827)
Oil on canvas, from life, ca. 1791–1792
Independence National Historical Park
Thomas Paine (1737–1809), by William Sharp after George Romney
Engraving, 1793
© National Portrait Gallery, London
Philip Morin Freneau (1752–1832)
Reprinted from Philip Morin Freneau, Poems Relating to the American Revolution (New
York: W. J. Widdleton, 1865)
Martha Washington (1731–1802), by James Peale (1749–1831)
Miniature, watercolor on ivory, 1796
Courtesy of the Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association
Frances “Fanny” Bassett (1767–1796), by Robert Edge Pine (ca. 1730–1788)
Oil on canvas, 1785
Courtesy of the Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association
The Washington Family, by David Edwin (1776–1841) after Edward Savage (1761–1817)
Stipple engraving, 1798
National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institution / Art Resource, NY
George Washington, by Charles Willson Peale (1741–1827)
Oil on canvas, 1795
Collection of the New-York Historical Society, 1867.299

Index

Page numbers in italics refer to illustrations.
Abbot, W. W., xx, 13
Adams, Abigail, 204, 219, 225, 227, 585, 743, 745,
768, 769, 789, 813
on Adams’s election, 765
on GW, 195, 199, 207, 283, 578, 579, 587, 813
GW’s death and, 811
on Lafayette, 296
on Martha Washington, 573, 615, 815
at Martha Washington’s receptions, 579, 645
on Mount Vernon, 163
on Philadelphia, 644
Adams, John, 12–13, 172, 173, 182, 190, 195, 205,
208, 212, 230, 359, 530, 540, 660–61, 695,
700, 713, 742, 743, 745, 758
Alien and Sedition Acts and, 792–93
on Battle of Lexington and Concord, 181
cabinet of, 785, 798
character and personality of, xx, 185
on Continental Army, 248, 302
death of, 525
diplomatic assignment of, 442
diplomatic overtures toward France by, 793, 798
in election of 1789, 551
in election of 1796, 754, 765
on federal district, 665, 794
on French alliance, 349–50
on GW, xix, 98, 183, 185, 188, 191, 199, 285,
306, 312, 319, 321, 394, 415, 550, 578, 593,
631, 757, 771, 814
GW’s death and, 811
at GW’s inauguration, 567
GW supported by, 184–85, 186–87, 306

on Hamilton, 394, 757
on Jefferson, 712
national bank disapproved by, 649
new army and conﬂict with GW, 783–86,
788–89, 791
on New York, 564
as president, 606, 743, 765, 767–68, 769, 777,
779, 795, 797
Society of the Cincinnati condemned by, 498
as vice president, 564–65, 575–76, 580–81,
585, 590, 591, 592, 593–94, 608, 624, 626,
635, 672, 678, 735
vice presidential reelection of, 685
XYZ Affair and, 783
Adams, John Quincy, 488, 735
Adams, Samuel, 167, 181, 182, 319
on Boston Tea Party, 165–66
GW supported by, 184–85, 186–87
Adams administration, 766, 792–93, 798
Addison, Joseph, 126, 229, 331
“Address to the Cherokee Nation,” 718
Adventurers for Draining the Dismal Swamp, 137
agriculture, 609, 618, 671, 672
Albany, N.Y., 238, 315–16, 701
Albemarle, Lord, 45, 49
alcohol, alcohol abuse, 209, 276, 277, 293, 302,
328, 334, 389, 405, 495, 555, 635, 665–66,
706, 769, 778, 816
Alexandria, Va., 22, 39, 53, 75, 116, 126, 130,
141, 142, 167, 189, 202, 216, 422, 467, 500,
511, 512, 546, 561, 563, 704, 706, 720, 760,
762–63, 770, 790, 799, 803, 806, 807, 810

874

r! Index

Alexandria Academy, 133, 803
Algiers, 713, 714, 764, 770
Alice (slave), 83, 637
Alien and Sedition Acts (1798), 792–93
Allegheny Mountains, 21, 31, 32, 148, 503
Allegheny River, 21, 33, 35
Allen, Ethan, 184
Allen, John, 653
Alton, John, 54, 100, 586
American Museum, 404
American Revolution, xx, 34, 49, 57, 66, 69, 90,
91–92, 100, 107, 111, 112, 124, 131, 132, 135,
150, 153, 159, 177, 185, 207, 244, 418–19,
486, 492, 493, 497, 501, 517, 521, 537, 553,
565, 590, 597, 600, 609, 620, 639, 642, 654,
665, 666, 686, 694, 698, 724, 741, 744, 745,
755, 765, 782, 787, 791, 802, 811, 812
French Revolution and, 657–60, 689, 691,
714–15, 771
as global conﬂict, 347
GW’s view of moral struggle in, 208–9
Native Americans and, 358–61
origin in measured protests of, 145
Paris peace treaty in, 430, 436, 439, 440,
444–45, 448
proﬁteering during, 328–29, 337–38, 352, 354,
367–68, 388
Ames, Fisher, 567, 568, 726, 765
Amson, John, 75, 78
Anderson, Fred, 73
Anderson, James, 751, 778–79, 799–800, 806
André, John, 380–87, 427
Annals of Agriculture (Young), 482
Annapolis, Md., 77, 144, 155–56, 158, 411, 453,
457, 479, 487, 652, 702, 795
conference on Articles of Confederation in,
517, 522
antifederalists, 534, 542, 543, 551, 606
Apotheosis of Washington, 773, 813
Appalachian Mountains, 479, 514
Appleby Grammar School, 5, 7, 8, 9
Arbuthnot, Admiral, 380
Argand, Aimé, 617
Armistead, James, 486, 487
Armstrong, John, 308, 400, 431
Armstrong, John, Jr., 433–34
army:
GW’s proposed command of new, 783–91,
793, 796, 798
Indians and request for expansion of, 667–68
military academy proposed for, 446, 764, 805
military preparedness and, 702–3
peacetime, 446
standing, Constitutional Convention and,
537–38

standing, GW’s proposal for, 71, 208, 211, 251,
256, 369, 373, 375, 443, 618–19, 703, 714,
770
standing, ideological fears of, 457, 597, 722
in Whiskey Rebellion, 719–28
see also militias
Army, British, 183–84, 192–93, 194–95, 200, 206,
208, 214, 234, 243, 245, 265–68, 269–72,
275–77, 279–84, 285, 300–311, 321, 327,
339–44, 355, 365, 367, 398–400, 458, 571
American prisoners held by, 248, 262, 374, 450
Arnold affair and, 380–87
as best trained and equipped, 207, 244, 332,
450
Charleston captured by, 371–72, 374, 380
German mercenaries in, see Hessians
local suppliers’ favoring of, 328–29, 388
as model for GW, 292–93
prisoners from, 201, 282
retreat to Nova Scotia by, 229, 235
Royal Ethiopian Regiment in, 212, 213, 355
status of colonial soldiers in, 9, 39–40, 41, 44,
45–46, 53, 54, 59, 67–69, 72–73, 74, 87, 90,
92, 144, 167
see also speciﬁc battles
Army, Continental, see Continental Army
Arnold, Benedict, 184, 210–11, 313, 338, 377–79,
389–91
in British Army, 387, 398–99, 403
kidnapping attempt on, 387, 388, 425
as traitor, 380–87, 388
Arnold, Peggy Shippen, 380–84
Articles of Confederation, 328, 522–24, 596,
599, 602
GW’s critique of, 352, 394–95, 442, 455,
513–14, 516–19
Asbury, Francis, 489
Asgill, Charles, 426–27
Asgill, Lady, 427
Asia (warship), 192
Associated Loyalists, 426
Atlantic Ocean, 31, 183, 420, 486
attorney general, 596, 601, 736
Aurora, 686, 725, 730–31, 742–43, 744, 745,
753–54, 756–58, 765, 768–69, 792–93
Austin (slave), 572, 637–38, 759
Austin, Jonathan Loring, 315
Austria, 234, 688, 714, 738
Bache, Benjamin Franklin, 653, 686, 725, 743,
753–54, 758, 768–69
Bache, Sarah Franklin, 295, 498
Bailyn, Bernard, 215
Baker, John, 437–38
Baldwin, Abraham, 625

Index r! 875
Ball, Joseph (grandfather), 5
Ball, Joseph (uncle), 17–18
Ball, Mary Johnson (grandmother), 5–6
Baltimore, Charles Calvert, Lord, 164
Baltimore, Md., 151, 182, 409, 503, 506, 545,
702, 770
Continental Congress in, 270
bancomania, 674
Bank of Alexandria, 803
Bank of England, 648
Bank of the United States, 648–50, 673–74, 677,
678, 770
banks, 650, 671
creation of new, 673–74
Baptist Church, 132
Barbados, 24–25, 411
Barbary pirates, 514, 713–14, 771
Barbé-Marbois, François, 363–64
Bard, John, 587
Bard, Samuel, 586–87, 625
Barlow, Joel, 471
Barras, Count de, 401, 403, 406–9
Bassett, Anna Maria Dandridge (sister-in-law),
189, 216, 329–30, 463
Bassett, Burwell (brother-in-law), 161, 189, 237,
329–30, 421
Bassett, Burwell, Jr., 762
Bassett, Fanny, see Washington, Fanny Bassett
Bastille, fall of, 658–59
Baurmeister, Carl Leopold, 251
Beckley, John, 741
Beckwith, George, 657
Bedford, Gunning, 533–34
Belvoir, 16–17, 19, 22, 37, 55, 61, 74, 126, 144,
153, 169, 170, 444, 503–4, 778
Bemis Heights, Battle of, 313
Benedict, Abner, 245
Berkeley Springs, W.Va., 24, 129, 154, 480, 663
Bermuda, 25–26
Betty (slave), 114, 118, 759
Biddle, Clement, 494, 562–63, 625, 634
Bingham, Anne Willing, 528, 646
Bingham, William, 528, 646
Bishop, Thomas, 60
blacks:
education of, 802
free, 494, 636, 638, 759, 802
Blair, John, 540
Blanchard, Claude, 377, 410, 419
Bland, Martha Daingerﬁeld, 295
Bland, Theodorick, 303
Blockade, The, 214
Blue Ridge Mountains, 19, 63, 123–24
Blueskin (horse), 469
Board of Trade, British, 37–38, 45

Board of War, 317, 319–20, 371
Bonhomme Richard (ship), 363
Boston, Mass., 68, 143, 147, 167, 171, 181, 183,
186, 189, 192–93, 199–200, 219, 220, 348,
401, 403, 408, 542, 610–13, 644, 673, 737
siege of, 193, 206–9, 214, 224–29, 231, 235,
610
Boston Gazette, 68, 168, 204
Boston Harbor, 184, 204
Boston Massacre, 147, 226
Boston Port Bill, 166
Boston Sailcloth Manufactory, 612
Boston Tea Party, 165–66
Botetourt, Lord, 143–47, 148, 584
Boucher, Jonathan, 155–57, 158, 164
Boudinot, Elias, 338, 564
Boudinot, Elisha, 289
Bouquet, Henry, 89–90, 91
Bowie, John, 471
Braddock, Edward, 52–64, 68, 72, 89–90, 91, 128,
150, 160, 172, 182, 187, 275, 291, 479
Braddock’s Field, 719
Bradford, William, 713, 719, 736
Brady, Patricia, 98
Brandywine Creek, Battle of, 302–6, 311, 316,
323, 328, 344, 361, 375
Brant, Joseph, 350–51
Breed’s Hill, see Bunker Hill, Battle of
Bréhan, Marquise de, 613–14, 646
Broadwater, Charles, 167
Brooklyn, 229, 245, 249–51
Brooklyn (Long Island), Battle of, 243, 247–49,
251, 253, 302, 344
Brooklyn Heights, 245, 246, 248–50, 252
Brown, Elias, 287
Brown, Gustavus Richard, 807–8
Brown, Philip, 239–40
Brown University (Rhode Island College), 633
Bryan, Helen, 81–82, 815
Buchanan, Walter, 578
Bullskin Plantation, 26, 54, 55, 67, 111–12
Bunker Hill (Breed’s Hill), Battle of, 191, 192–93,
195, 197, 201, 206, 212, 239
Burgoyne, John, 184, 214, 300–301, 348, 503
Saratoga defeat of, 312–15, 379, 417
Burke, Edmund, 175, 660
Burr, Aaron, 716, 754, 816
Bush, Benjamin, 263
Butler, James, 706
Butler, Pierce, 536–37, 727, 757
Butler, Richard, 667
Butler, Walter, 359
Cabot, George, 737
Cadwalader, John, 272, 274, 277, 322, 378

87 6

r! Index

Caesar (slave), 758, 800–801
Callender, James T., 781
Calvert, Benedict, 157, 164
Calvert, Charles, 157
Cambridge, Mass., 193, 195–97, 199, 206, 213,
216, 217, 220, 230, 288, 610
Camden, Battle of, 374–75, 654
Campbell, Christiana, 127
Canada, 184, 229, 230, 300, 350, 426, 657, 692
border with, 715
ﬁshing rights and, 448
French, 31, 34
French and Indian War in, 66–67, 127, 136
French Catholics in, 210
canals, 609
Capitol, U.S., 457, 665, 703–4, 794–95, 812
Caribbean, 117, 200, 292, 407, 429
War of Jenkins’ Ear in, 9
Carleton, Sir Guy, 175, 426, 440–42, 451, 657
Carlisle, Pa., 721, 723–24
Carlyle & Adam, 142
Caroline (slave), 806, 808–9
Carrington, Edward, 678
Carrington, Elizabeth Ambler, 466, 805
Cartagena, 9, 15
Carter, Charles, 79
Carter, Charles, Jr., 750
Cary, Mary, 22
Cary, Robert, 104–8, 110, 118, 138–39, 147, 154,
162
Cary, Wilson, 21
Caswell, Richard, 182
Catawba nation, 73
Catherine the Great, empress of Russia, 510
Cato (Addison), 126, 229, 331
“Catullus,” 671–72
Cayenne (French Guiana), 488–89
Cayuga nation, 359
“Centinel,” 543
Cerberus (frigate), 184
Chamberlayne, Richard, 78
Champe, John, 387
Charles II, king of England, 16
Charleston, S.C., 230, 371–72, 374, 380, 418, 420,
429, 430, 653–54, 692, 694
Charlestown, Mass., 192, 311
Charlotte (slave), 640, 808–9
Charlton, John, 625
Chastellux, Chevalier de, 124, 402, 424, 528
Chateaubriand, François-Auguste-René de,
645–46, 659
checks and balances, 590
Cherokee nation, 78
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, 502

Chesapeake Bay, 82, 151, 301, 347, 401, 403–4,
407–8, 411, 420, 782
Chester, Pa., 408, 526
Chew, Benjamin, 309, 528
Chovet, Abraham, 534
Church of England (Anglican Church), 82,
130–32, 173, 469
Cincinnatus, Lucius Quinctius, 444, 454, 457,
477, 513
“Cinna,” 547–48
circuit courts, 601
“Circular to State Governments,” 328, 442–43,
446, 521
City Tavern, 171, 184, 298, 534, 540, 561, 633,
692
civil liberties, 771, 792
Civil War, American, 451, 676, 726, 795
Clarkson, Thomas, 485
Claypoole, David, 754
Claypoole’s American Daily Advertiser, 754, 766
Clermont-Crèvecoeur, Count de, 404–5, 423
Clinton, George, 313, 450, 462, 543–44, 563–64,
572, 580, 632, 633, 685, 697
Clinton, Sir Henry, 184, 247–48, 263, 316,
337–39, 347–48, 361, 380, 383, 387, 401,
404, 406, 413, 414, 416, 418, 420, 438
at Battle of Monmouth, 341, 343–44
on Cowpens disaster, 391
kidnap attempt on, 388–89, 425
recall of, 426
in siege of Charleston, 371–72
Closen, Ludwig von, Baron, 334, 396, 404, 410,
418
Clymer, George, 624–25
Coast Guard, 619, 770
Cobb, David, Jr., 415, 781
Cobbett, William, 742, 758
Cochran, John, 363
Coercive Acts (Intolerable Acts) (1774), 166
Coke, Thomas, 489
College of New Jersey (Princeton University),
133, 156–57, 479, 749–50, 795
College of Philadelphia (University of Pennsylvania), 647
College of William and Mary, 22, 156, 601
Columbian Magazine, 547–48
Columbia University (King’s College), 157,
160–61, 204, 292
commerce, 618, 635, 676, 770, 771
Committee of Public Safety, 719
Common Sense (Paine), 214–15, 447, 660
Concord, Mass., 181, 206, 212, 436
Congregational Church, 611
Congregation Yeshuat Israel, 632

Index r! 87 7
Congress, Confederation, 513–14, 517–18, 543,
553, 566, 575, 576, 736
Constitutional Convention approved by, 523
Constitution presented to, 539, 540
departments of, 596
Congress, U.S., 508, 564, 575, 593, 608, 624, 632,
650, 671, 678, 683, 691, 709, 711, 712, 713,
716, 725–26, 753, 755, 771, 782, 793, 794,
811–12
antislavery petitions in, 622–23, 624
Bill of Rights in, 606–7
capital construction and, 704
debate over proportional vs. equal representation in, 533–34, 536
departments of, 596
enlarged powers proposed for, 515
ﬁrst, delay in opening of, 551–52
GW’s annual addresses to, 618–19, 635, 664,
670, 702–3
GW’s election announced by, 559–60
GW’s ﬁnal address to, 764–65
GW’s inauguration and, 566–68
GW’s relationship with, 590
Hamilton’s Report on Manufactures to, 672
Hamilton’s Report on Public Credit to, 609,
619–20, 622
on Indian warfare, 667–68
Jay Treaty and, 730
powers reserved for, 537
presidential veto and, 538
proportional representation and, 529
site in new federal city for, 662–63
slavery and, 640
Connecticut, 233, 369, 379
Constitution ratiﬁed by, 545
volunteer troops from, 183, 207, 235, 379, 383
Connecticut Continentals, 253
Constitution, British, 680
Constitution, U.S., 561, 593, 603, 767, 783
advice and consent in, 592
amendment process for, 539
annual address mandated by, 618
Article I of, 590, 649
Article II of, 549
bank bill and, 648–50
bicameral legislature in, 533
Bill of Rights and, 540, 606–7
emergency government sessions and, 702
executive branch in, 537–38
Federalist vs. Republican views of, 671, 697,
771, 798
ﬁrst elections seen as support for, 550–51
GW’s support for, 552–53, 565, 595, 597, 609,
664, 697, 747, 770, 812

Jefferson’s ambivalence toward, 599, 698
on judiciary, 601
as living and open-ended document, 650
necessary and proper clause of, 649
preamble to, 538
proportional representation in, 529, 533
ratiﬁcation of, 542–47
slavery in, 536–37, 623–24
strict constructionists and, 702
treaty-making powers in, 741–42
tripartite government in, 529, 533, 590, 695
Twenty-second Amendment of, 752
two-thirds rule of, 730
Whiskey Rebellion as test of, 721
Constitutional Convention, 503, 504, 517, 552,
572, 574, 597, 601, 649, 659, 736, 741, 755
GW as president of, 527, 529–41, 548–49, 684
GW’s hesitation about, 520–24, 547, 675
secrecy rule of, 540
on slavery, 532, 536–37, 623
Continental Army, 215, 238, 361, 384, 414, 428,
513, 517, 521, 531, 532, 572, 633, 660, 665,
719
Articles of Confederation and, 442
blacks in, 211–13, 242–43, 250, 333–34,
354–56, 404–5, 415, 439
bounties for, 231, 278, 285, 354, 389
casualties in, 259, 311, 344, 366, 374, 450–51
decrease in support for, 271
desertions and short-term enlistments in,
207–8, 243, 251, 285, 302, 319, 354
discipline in, 195–96, 198, 237, 255, 301, 302
early formation of, 184, 190
generals of, 205, 242, 246, 248, 263, 272, 285,
308, 321, 339
gunpowder and weapons shortage for, 199,
200, 206, 223–24, 242, 307, 376, 378, 401
GW’s command of, xix, 98, 101, 112, 133, 141,
163, 168, 169, 174, 185–219, 224–458, 522,
552, 570, 588, 602–3, 611, 684, 745
GW’s frustrations with, 195–96, 253–54
GW’s insistence on smallpox inoculations for,
199–200, 227–28, 231–32, 286
GW’s Life Guard in, 222–23, 287
heroism of, 195, 285, 370
illness in, 327, 334, 370
long-term enlistments for, 256
maintaining unity in, 197–98
militias in, 195, 207, 244, 251, 256, 271, 307,
308, 349, 372, 374, 376
as model for new country, 321, 448, 458
morale problems in, 307, 308
move south by, 406–10, 412
music in, 293, 302, 326, 331, 364

87 8

r! Index

Continental Army (cont.)
mutinies in, 369–70, 390–91, 432–36, 446
in Newport approach, 348–49
northern department of, 311–12, 391
origins of, 186
pay not given to, 368, 389, 424, 430–31, 432,
449, 466
prisoners from, 248, 262, 374, 450
prisoners treated humanely by, 201, 282
reenlistments for, 213–14
sanitary conditions for, 241–42, 293, 332
size of, 198, 235, 242, 244, 264, 265, 270–71,
272, 277–78, 280, 285–86, 289, 294, 298,
300, 301–2, 307, 315, 334, 349, 370, 373,
376–77, 378, 399, 400, 405, 413
southern department of, 371, 374–76, 391,
398–400
Steuben’s training of, 332–33, 335–36, 338,
343, 452
supply shortages for, 264, 298, 306–7, 314,
324–29, 332, 366–70, 373, 388–90, 400, 401,
405, 430–31, 457–58
uniforms for, 196–97, 242, 250, 302, 308,
404–5, 413, 418, 450
see also speciﬁc battles
Continental Association, 174
Continental Congress, 99, 118
see also First Continental Congress; Second
Continental Congress
Conway, Richard, 553
Conway, Thomas, 316–22
Conway “Cabal,” 320–21, 335, 374, 454
Cooper, Myles, 157, 160–61, 164
Corbin, Richard, 38
Cornwallis, Charles, Lord, 247, 248, 263, 280–81,
284, 302, 307, 341, 374, 398, 401, 403, 407,
816
in siege of Charleston, 371–72
at Yorktown, 407, 409, 412–14, 416–21
cotton gin, 811
Cowpens, S.C., 391, 398
Craik, James, 59, 74, 88, 129, 133, 149, 341, 472,
473, 479, 521, 553, 587, 804, 806–9, 813, 816
Crawford, William, 148, 176, 410, 480–81
credit:
America’s lack of, 373
federal, 770
Creek Nation, 591–92
Cresswell, Nicholas, 283
Crisis, The (Paine), 271, 447
Cromwell, Oliver, 3
Crow, Hiland, 707
Cunliffe, Marcus, 22
Cupid (slave), 116–17
Curwen, Samuel, 183

Cushing, Thomas, 185–86
Cushing, William, 588, 602, 687, 736
Custis, Daniel Parke, 78–80, 82–83, 97, 101, 104,
506
Custis, Eleanor “Nelly” Calvert (stepdaughter-inlaw), 157, 160, 162, 164, 189, 216, 232, 330,
409, 421, 748
remarriage to David Stuart of, 422, 505, 800
Custis, Eleanor Parke “Nelly” (stepgranddaughter), 86, 464, 470, 526, 571, 572,
588, 615–16, 633, 701, 748, 749, 760, 769,
783, 790
education of, 473, 615
on GW, 463, 511–12, 775
GW and Martha’s adoption of, 421–22, 463,
487
marriage of, to Lawrence Lewis, 795, 803
portraits of, 463, 494, 509, 615
Custis, Elizabeth Parke (step-granddaughter),
422, 747–49, 759
Custis, Frances Parke “Fidelia,” 82
Custis, George Washington Parke “Washy” (stepgrandson), 409, 470, 513, 526, 571, 572, 588,
615, 633, 701, 769, 803, 814
difﬁcult behavior of, 616–17, 749–50, 795–96
education of, 473, 474, 749–50, 795
on GW, 616, 642
GW and Martha’s adoption of, 421–22, 463,
487
portraits of, 463, 494, 509
Custis, Jack “Black Jack,” 83, 101
Custis, John, IV, 82–83
Custis, John Parke “Jacky” (stepson), 78, 79,
100–101, 104, 158, 189, 216–17, 243, 278,
330, 366, 505, 800
as aide at Yorktown, 410, 414, 416–17, 420–21
children of, 409
courtship and marriage of, 157, 160, 162, 164,
188
death of, 421–23, 463, 506
difﬁcult behavior of, 101, 154–57, 163–64,
232, 422, 463, 749–50
education of, 155–57, 160–61, 164
GW appreciated by, 232
GW cheated by, 367
on Patsy’s death, 162
portraits of, 97, 154, 159
smallpox inoculation of, 231
Custis, Martha Parke (step-granddaughter),
422
Custis, Martha Parke “Patsy” (stepdaughter), 78,
79, 100–101, 103, 104, 147
death of, 161–62, 168, 176, 188, 421, 506
epilepsy and other health problems of,
152–54, 161–62, 463

Index r! 8 7 9
portraits of, 97, 153–54, 159
Custis estate, 79–80, 100–101, 155–56, 172, 616,
638, 760, 800–803
customs service, 619, 701, 760–61, 770
customs taxes, 425
Cutler, Manasseh, 204, 815, 816
Cyrus (slave), 641, 810
Dagworthy, John, 67–68
Dalby, Philip, 489
Dalzell, Lee Baldwin, 163
Dalzell, Robert F., Jr., 163
Dandridge, Ann, 81–82
Dandridge, Bartholomew, 491, 506, 700
Dandridge, Frances Jones, 81, 505–6
Dandridge, John, 81
Danton, Georges Jacques, 661, 688
Davies, Samuel, 61
Davis, Thomas, 810
Davis, Tom (slave), 116, 142
Deane, Silas, 172, 191, 299, 332
debt, 169–70
among colonists, 144
federal, 671, 718, 756
funded, 678, 756
government, 635
of GW, 107–8, 139, 162, 490, 514, 553
imprisonment for, 133
public, 620, 678, 680
state, federal assumption of, 620–21, 630–31,
770
war, 424–25, 442, 620–21
wartime promissory notes and, 620–22
Declaration of Independence, 236, 237, 410,
635
Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen,
658
Declaratory Act (1766), 139
defense, national, 618–19
deism, 131
DeLancey, James, 160
Delaware:
at Constitutional Convention, 533–34
Constitution ratiﬁed by, 545
Delaware Bay, 347, 651
Delaware nation, 33, 359
Delaware River, 183, 267, 269–77, 280, 298, 301,
308, 339, 368, 389, 408, 694, 711, 766
Delaware Society for Promoting Domestic
Manufacturers, 561
Democratic-Republican Societies, 697–99, 700,
707, 724, 725–26, 728, 755
Demont, William, 260
Denny, Ebenezer, 411
deportations, 792–93

d’Estaing, Jean Baptiste, 347–49, 361, 365–66,
372, 715
Deux-Ponts, Guillaume de, 409
Dick, Elisha Cullen, 807–8, 810
Dickinson, John, 146, 173, 454
Digby, Robert, 425
Dinwiddie, Robert, 25, 27, 31, 36–38, 39–41,
43–45, 49–50, 59, 60, 63, 65, 68, 69–74, 76,
90, 92, 128, 148
Discourses on Davila (Adams), 660–61
district courts, 601
Dixon, Jeremiah, 148
Dogue Run farm, 77, 113, 141, 465, 483, 496,
708, 795, 803
Doll (slave), 118, 637, 640–41
Donald, Alexander, 542, 547
Donop, Colonel von, 279
Dorchester Heights, 224–27, 229, 610
Drowne, Solomon, 172
Duane, James, 564–65
Duane, William, 792
Duer, William, 673–74
Dulany, Elizabeth French, 469
Dumas, Count de, 377–78
Dunlap, William, 615
Dunmore, John Murray, Earl of, 165–67, 176–77,
202, 212, 215–16, 220, 355
Norfolk, Va. torched by, 214
Dunn, Arthur, 635
Duquesne, Marquis de, 31, 48–49
Durham boats, 270, 273
duties, import, 575, 672
Dyer, Eliphalet, 186
Eagle (ship), 238
East India Company, 166
East Indies, 347
East River, 245, 249, 250, 251, 252, 257, 280, 450,
564, 583
Echard, Susan R., 768
Edict of Fraternity, 689
Edwin, David, 773
Ehlers, John Christian, 708
elections:
of 1789, 550–51, 553, 559–60
of 1792, 684–85
of 1796, 765
of 1800, 797–98
Electoral College, 536, 550–51, 553, 559, 684,
765, 816
Elizabethtown, N.J., 216, 292, 563, 572
Ellicott, Andrew, 652, 663
Ellis, Joseph, 168, 308, 755
Ellsworth, Oliver, 737, 768
Embuscade (ship), 694

880

r! Index

Emerson, William, 197, 203
England, 192, 688, 750
as America’s antithesis, 514, 568
farewell address and, 756
prewar debt to, 514
Spain’s military confrontation with, 657
see also Great Britain
English Channel, 347
Enlightenment, 564
American Revolution in context of, 443
rationalism in, 131, 132
Enys, John, 543
Episcopal Church, 470, 611
Erskine, Sir William, 280
Eskridge, George, 6
Estates-General, French, 658
Evans, Israel, 414
Evans, Joshua, 153
Evans, Oliver, 484
Ewald, Johann, 283
Ewing, James, 272
excise taxes, 636, 678, 680, 718
executive branch, 575, 590, 596, 620, 624, 671,
672, 716, 756, 770, 771
under Articles of Confederation, 513
under Constitution, 537–38
domestic policy and, 771
economic policy and, 619
equality between legislative and, 568
foreign policy and, 592–93, 741, 744, 756, 771
war powers of, 691
Fabius, 208, 308
Fagan, John, 651
Fairfax, Bryan, 169–70, 172, 778
Fairfax, George William, 21, 56, 67, 88, 181, 184,
358, 482, 509, 528
death of, 504–5
departure for England of, 168–69
GW’s friendship with, 16, 19, 83–85, 126, 444,
503–4, 528
Fairfax, Sarah Cary “Sally,” 67, 444, 503–4, 509
departure for England of, 168–69
GW’s friendship with, 21–22, 55–56, 61, 75,
81, 83–86, 88, 102, 126, 365, 528, 536, 778
Fairfax, Thomas Fairfax, sixth Baron, 16, 19, 20,
22–23, 55, 88
Fairfax, William, 16–17, 20, 31, 44, 61, 70, 74, 83
Fairfax County Committee, 175
Fairfax family, 37, 41, 55, 61
Fairfax Independent Company, 174–75, 183,
190, 553
Fairfax Resolves, 167–68, 171
Fallen Timbers, Battle of, 717
Falmouth, Mass., 208–9, 215, 243

“Farewell Address to the Armies of the United
States,” 448
“Farmer Refuted, The” (Hamilton), 204
Fauchet, Jean-Antoine, 697, 732–33
Faulkner, William, 720
Fauntleroy, Elizabeth “Betsy,” 26
Fauntleroy, William, 26
Fauquier, Francis, 90, 127, 138
federal deﬁcit, 718
Federal District (Washington, D.C.), 629–32,
652, 662–65, 703–5, 748, 761, 764, 770, 784,
793–95, 798, 803
Federal Gazette, 549, 561
Federal Hall, 567, 591, 618, 662
federalism, 369, 425, 432–33, 481, 487, 506, 598,
670, 694, 719
vs. fear of centralized power, 443, 462–63
fear of chaos and, 515
in GW’s farewell address to armies, 448
Federalist, The (Hamilton, Madison, and Jay),
544–45, 621, 648, 747
Federalists, 671, 678, 681, 683, 694, 698, 744,
782–83, 791
Adams and, 754, 768, 797
Alien and Sedition Acts and, 792–93
as antislavery party, 671, 758
in 1800 election, 797, 798
envoy to Britain sought by, 715–16
executive power and, 771
French Revolution feared by, 689, 692, 715, 797
GW in support of, 726, 734, 742, 756, 765,
787–88, 793
GW’s death and, 811
in GW’s second-term cabinet, 713, 728, 736
High, 735
high society and, 711
hopes for GW’s continuance in ofﬁce by, 752
on Jay Treaty, 730–31, 741–42
Martha Washington as, 816
representational government and, 698
on Reynolds scandal, 781
federal vs. state power, 611, 671
Fenno, John, 671, 680
Ferguson, Patrick, 303
Ferry Farm, 7–8, 10, 17, 18, 53–54, 157–58, 496
Fersen, Axel von, Count, 377
Field, Robert, 814
Findley, William, 724–25
First Continental Congress, 134, 171–74, 176,
183, 528
independence not goal of, 173–74
First Maryland Regiment, 247–48
Fischer, David Hackett, 277
Fishbourn, Benjamin, 591
Fishkill, N.Y., 350, 363

Index r! 8 81
Fithian, Philip, 241
Fitzgerald, John, 281–82
Fitzhugh, William, 27
Flexner, James T., xxi, 149, 188, 226, 396, 421
Florida, 591
East, 654
Forbes, Eleanor, 763
Forbes, Gilbert, 232
Forbes, John, 87, 89–92, 148
Ford, Theodosia, 366, 368
Ford, West, 492–93, 799
foreign policy, 592–93, 600, 656, 691, 714, 741,
744, 756
Forks of the Ohio, 21, 31, 33, 36, 38, 40, 43–44,
56–57, 87, 91
Fort Cumberland, 56, 67, 72, 84, 87
Fort Dinwiddie, 65
Fort Duquesne, 40, 46, 57, 66, 68–69, 72, 84, 87,
89–91
Fort George, 449
Fort Le Boeuf, 33, 37
Fort Lee, 258–64
Fort Necessity, 44, 46–47, 49–50, 52, 58, 72, 73,
128, 148, 249, 480
Fort Pitt, 91
Fort Ticonderoga, 184, 209
British capture of, 301
weapons from, 223–24, 225
Fort Washington, 258–64, 265, 291, 375, 430
Fort Wayne, Ind., 666
Fourth of July, 578, 731
Fox, Charles James, 398
France, 39, 322
Adams’s diplomatic overtures toward, 793, 798
American alliance with, 311, 315, 335–36, 337,
347–450, 354, 359–60, 361, 362–66, 372–74,
376–78, 392, 396, 401–5, 406–16, 418–20,
427–29, 438, 446, 657, 691–92, 703, 745
American independence recognized by,
335–36
American ships seized by, 743, 782–84
America’s relationship with, 656–62, 743
antislavery sentiment in, 639, 710
army of, 234, 372–74, 405, 413–19
British seizure of cargo bound for, 715, 730
condescension by, 349
Directory in, 737, 782–83
émigrés from, 645, 737
in expulsion from Canada, 127, 136
farewell address and, 756–57
Fauchet bribery allegations and, 732–35
ﬁnancial assistance sought from, 391, 401
ﬂeet of, 347–49, 372–73, 377, 400–405, 409,
411–12, 419–20, 429, 457, 610, 611
in French and Indian War, 69, 127

GW’s proposed trip to, 465, 470, 486
GW’s skepticism about, 335
Jefferson’s support for, 713, 797
Ohio Country claimed by, 21, 31–50, 53–54,
57–60, 89–91
postwar alliance with, 487
projected war with, 786–87
Quasi-War against the United States by,
743–44, 783, 792
self-interest of, 744
volunteer ofﬁcers from, 298–99, 662
in war with Austria and Prussia, 688
in war with Britain, 689–98, 715, 744
in war with Holland, 689
XYZ Affair and, 783–84
Franklin, Benjamin, xx, 54, 122, 160, 185, 187,
224, 295, 332, 363, 384, 426–27, 470, 498,
508, 570, 593, 599, 625, 644, 653
as abolitionist, 623, 624
as ambassador to France, 298, 299, 315, 335,
391, 401, 442, 466, 510
on celebrity, 467
at Constitutional Convention, 527, 529, 537,
539–40, 542–43
in Continental Congress, 99, 139, 208
death of, 624
executive power distrusted by, 537
on GW, 61, 458
Society of the Cincinnati opposed by, 498
Franklin, William, 160, 426–27
Franks, David, 382, 384
Franks, Isaac, 702
Fraser, John, 32
Fraunces, Samuel, 451, 582–83, 639
Fraunces Tavern, 451–52, 582
Fredericksburg, Va., 8, 10, 12, 17, 32, 98, 155,
157–58, 396–97, 422–23, 462, 525–26, 546,
589, 647, 652
Frederick the Great, emperor of Prussia, 283,
332–33
Freeman, Douglas Southall, xxi, 10, 15, 133,
176–77, 248, 396
Freemasons, see Masons
French, Penelope Manley, 800
French and Indian War, 28, 45, 49, 64, 69, 127,
175, 197, 350, 666
bounty lands for veterans of, 128, 148–50, 165,
167, 750
Cornwallis in, 416
end of, 131, 136
GW in, 1, 71, 87–92, 144, 150, 157, 159, 166,
168, 172, 189, 199, 225, 226, 240, 251, 293,
387, 397, 423, 437, 474, 570, 701, 764, 790,
803, 806
William Howe in, 239

8 82

r! Index

French Guiana (Cayenne), 488–89, 709
French Revolution, 598–99, 600, 639, 687–92,
695–98, 757
American Revolution and, 657–60, 689, 691,
714–15, 771
Jefferson’s support for, 656–57, 658–61, 670,
677, 689, 690–96
Lafayette and, 658–61, 687–89
origins of, 145
Reign of Terror in, 714, 737
turmoil as result of, 714
Freneau, Philip, 671, 674, 675, 679–82, 685–87,
696, 781
Frestel, Félix, 737–39, 769
frontier warfare, 49, 53–54, 58, 62, 65–66, 69,
87–88, 92–93, 99, 182, 238, 358, 480
Frost, Amariah, 776–77
Fry, Joshua, 39–40, 44, 45
Fugitive Slave Act (1793), 758
Gage, Thomas, 57, 160, 166, 171, 175, 200–201,
206
in Battle of Lexington and Concord, 181
replacement of, 208
Gainsborough, Thomas, 416
Gale, George, 4–5
gambling, 174, 209, 239, 293, 327, 644
Garrison, William Lloyd, 537
Gates, Elizabeth, 216
Gates, Horatio, 57, 182, 185, 190, 205, 216, 270,
271, 348, 359, 433, 454, 472, 786
Camden defeat of, 374–75
in rivalry with GW, 263, 267, 272, 315,
317–22, 374, 382
Saratoga victory of, 312–17, 379, 445
Gazette of the United States, 671, 680–81, 731,
769
General Advertiser, 686
General Court of Massachusetts, 209
Genet, Edmond-Charles “Citizen Genet,”
692–97, 706, 720, 726
Gentleman’s Magazine, 32
George II, king of England, 6, 32, 44, 128, 282
George III, king of England, 128, 138, 171, 174,
184, 208, 214–15, 241, 251, 315, 339, 344,
356, 416, 419–20, 427, 429, 442, 454, 657
appreciation of GW by, 757
Bowling Green statue of, 230, 237
delusional state of, 570–71
as head of Church of England, 469
Jay Treaty and, 740
George Mann’s Tavern, 454, 456, 652
Georgetown, 86, 652, 663, 799
George Washington in Prayer at Valley Forge, 326
Georgia, 354, 355, 365–66, 375, 591, 651

Constitution ratiﬁed by, 545
pine barrens of, 654
war debt paid by, 630
Gérard, Alexandre, 352–53
Germain, George, 234, 255, 378, 387
Germantown, Battle of, 308–11, 312, 317, 323,
344, 361, 535
Germantown, Pa., 319, 528, 702, 717
Germany, 137, 684
Gerry, Elbridge, 537–39
Gibbs, Caleb, 291
Giles (slave), 526, 531, 532, 572, 609, 634–35, 651
Giles, William Branch, 686–87, 690
Gimat, Chevalier de, 414–15
Gist, Christopher, 32, 35–37, 41, 68
Gist, Mordecai, 653
Gist, Nathaniel, 128
Gloucester, Va., 413, 417
Glover, John, 250, 272
Gordon, William, 225, 321, 471–72, 487
Graham, Catharine Macaulay, 470–71, 604, 654
Grant, James, 247
Grasse, Comte de, 401, 405, 408, 411–13, 420,
429
Graves, Thomas, 373, 399, 409, 412
Graydon, Alexander, 212
Great Britain, 8, 38, 188, 234, 336, 600, 609, 684,
806
American colonies of, 6, 8, 31
America’s relationship with, 656–57, 715–16
blocking exports to, 171, 174
boycott of imports from, 144–45, 146–47, 167,
169–71, 174, 466
class system in, 72
colonial declaration of independence from,
184
colonial land policy of, 136–37
debt in, 136, 620, 630
defections to, 223, 232–33, 260, 264, 269,
380–87, 388, 389
early end of Revolution expected in, 234
Federalists and, 731, 792–93
ﬁghting in Canada by, 67
ﬁghting methods of, 92–93
France’s enmity toward, 349–50
France’s war with, 689–98, 715, 743, 744
in French and Indian War, 69, 87, 89–91, 106,
127
fur trade vs. settlements of, 137
GW’s ability to learn from, 269
GW’s struggle against injustice of, 144
Indians as allies of, 35, 49, 73, 358–61, 665,
715, 717
inexhaustible resources of, 177
invincible power of, questioned, 61–62

Index r! 8 83
Jay Treaty with, 729–32
London factors vs. Virginia colonists of,
104–8, 122–23, 126, 136, 138–40
mercantilist policies of, 142
North American aspirations of, 419–20
Ohio Country claimed by, 21, 31–50, 52–62,
67
Republican hostility toward, 711–12, 715
resistance to rule of, 175
slave trade banned in, 639
taxation of colonies by, 136–39, 143–47,
165–66
Townshend Acts and, 143–45, 146–47, 159,
165
trade restrictions on, 711, 716
trade with, 729
treason punished by, 236–37
war avoided with, 730, 731, 743
in War of Jenkins’ Ear, 9
war propaganda in, 659–60
western forts of, 514, 515–16, 656, 715,
729–30, 743, 764, 771
West Indian markets shut to Americans by,
465, 514, 656
see also England
Great Dismal Swamp, 137, 779
Great Kanawha River, 148, 149, 150, 480, 502,
750
Great Lakes, 31, 34, 167, 430, 514, 729–30
Great Meadows, 41, 44, 46, 60, 150, 480
Green, Ashbel, 130
Green, Charles, 75
Green, Thomas, 555, 708
Greene, Catharine Littleﬁeld “Caty,” 203, 218–19,
330, 354, 360, 376, 577, 585
Greene, George Washington, 219, 354, 507
Greene, Jacob, 242
Greene, Nathanael, 152, 215, 218, 219, 242,
252, 254, 272, 275, 278, 306, 316, 340, 348,
353–54, 366, 745
in Battle of Brandywine, 304
in Battle of Germantown, 308, 310
in Battle of Monmouth Court House, 341, 343
in Battle of Princeton, 281, 282–83
character and personality of, 202–3, 205
death of, 506–7, 577, 587
in defeat at Fort Washington, 259–63, 265,
292, 375, 430
as GW’s aide, 291
as quartermaster general, 326, 329, 368, 375
in siege of Boston, 208, 226
southern department commanded by, 375–76,
398, 400, 430
Greenwood, John, 273, 276, 642–44
Grifﬁth, David, 341

Grove, William B., 668
Guilford Court House, N.C., 398, 654
Güllager, Christian, 612, 643
Gunn, James, 591
Hackensack, N.J., 261, 263, 269
Hale, Nathan, 255, 331
Half King (Tanacharison), 33–34, 36, 40–43,
45–46
Halkett, Francis, 89
Hall, David, 388
Hamilton, Alexander, 204, 442, 548, 549, 576,
577, 585, 587, 597, 608, 656, 700, 716,
735–36, 744
as anglophile, 716
anonymous attacks by, 680–82, 691
and Arnold affair, 382, 383, 385, 386
background of, 12, 291–93, 299
Bank of the United States proposed by,
648–50, 678
in Battle of Harlem Heights, 255
in Battle of Princeton, 282
in Battle of Trenton, 276
in battle on Chatterton’s Hill, 258
character and personality of, xx, 598
chief justice position declined by, 736
and command of new army, 784–91, 793
and Constitutional Convention, 517, 531, 534,
539
in Continental Army, 238, 265
death of, 814
debt funding report of, 609
excise tax proposed by, 635–36, 718
Federalist papers and, 544–45
on federal powers, 543–44, 670, 702
ﬁnancial program of, 369, 618–22, 623, 627,
630–31, 635, 639, 672–74, 678, 680, 756
Gates’s confrontation with, 315–16, 318
on Gates’s defeat, 375
George Washington Lafayette and, 737–38
on GW, 132, 292, 343, 597, 770
as GW’s aide, 217, 265, 293, 295–96, 302,
306–7, 333, 340, 368, 376
GW’s death and, 811
GW seen as puppet of, 669
GW’s farewell address written by, 752–57
GW’s last letter to, 805
GW’s relationship with, 391–92, 594, 620, 781
honorary French citizenship for, 689
investigations of, 686–87, 690, 713
Jay Treaty and, 730, 731–32, 741
Jefferson and Madison’s deal with, 630–31
Jefferson’s rivalry with, 627, 630, 669–83,
711–12, 730
and Laurens’s duel with Lee, 346

8 84

r! Index

Hamilton, Alexander (cont.)
manufacturing supported by, 141, 484,
671–72, 676
marriage of, 368, 392
and ofﬁcer revolt, 432–34
in resignation from Treasury, 727
retirement desired by, 693
and 1789 election, 551
skepticism toward French of, 335
slavery opposed by, 355, 440, 489, 623
strong central government advocated by, 515
tension between GW and, 386, 392–95, 427,
597–98
as treasury secretary, 265, 596–99, 600–601,
627, 657, 669, 730
Whiskey Rebellion and, 719–25, 727
yellow fever outbreak and, 701
at Yorktown, 415
Hamilton, Elizabeth Schuyler, 368–69, 383, 392,
585, 612, 701, 720, 757, 781, 814
Hamilton, James, 40
Hammond, George, 657, 730–32
Hancock, John, 120, 181–82, 184, 186, 187, 192,
228, 295, 298, 349, 545, 611
in election of 1789, 551
GW’s correspondence with, 196, 199, 207, 209,
213, 214, 223, 228, 233, 236, 237–38, 246,
251, 252, 253, 254, 259, 276, 286, 299, 305,
311, 314
resignation as Continental Congress president
by, 314
Hand, Edward, 250, 359
Harcourt, William, 267
Harlem Heights, 254, 257, 261
Battle of, 254–56, 282
Harmar, Josiah, 665–68
Harris, Hannah, 277
Harrison, Benjamin, 182, 396–97, 440, 500, 501,
510
Harrison, Robert Hanson, 291
Hart, John, 386
Hartford, Conn., 376–77, 381, 566, 572, 618
Hartford Woolen Manufactory, 566, 610
Harvard College, 134, 194, 198, 228, 611, 614,
624, 737, 814
Hawthorne, Nathaniel, 7
Hazen, Moses, 426
Head of Elk, Md., 408, 411, 540
Heath, William, 242, 249, 258, 260, 265, 400,
402, 430
Heights of Guana (Gowanus Heights), 245, 246,
247, 248
Heister, Leopold Philipp, Freiherr von, 247
“Helvidius,” 691
Hemings, Madison, 493

Hemings, Sally, 492–93, 682
Henley, Elizabeth Dandridge, 804
Henriques, Peter, 122
Henry, Patrick, 171, 176, 188, 196, 293, 315, 331,
545, 735, 752
Hercules (slave), 634–35, 637–39, 759, 762–63,
800
Herrick, John, 287
Herring, John, 287
Hessians, 235, 244–45, 247–48, 253, 258–59,
261–62, 270–72, 275–77, 279–80, 283, 303,
307, 310, 331, 336, 339, 416, 418, 561
Hewes, Joseph, 182
Hickey, Thomas, 232–33
Hiltzheimer, Jacob, 531
Hoag, John, 287
Hoban, James, 703
Hobby, Jonathan, 439
Holland, 20, 688, 735
diplomatic recognition of America by, 420
France’s war with, 689
Holy Ground, 230, 233
honor culture, 67
Houdon, Jean-Antoine, 459, 510–13, 747
House of Burgesses, Va., 21, 41, 49, 53, 65, 68,
126, 169, 275, 726
Botetourt’s dissolution of, 146
British imports boycotted by, 167
Committee of Correspondence of, 165
Dunmore’s dissolution of, 166
Fauquier’s dissolution of, 138
GW in, 88–91, 99–100, 118, 127–29, 138, 143,
143–47, 151, 165, 186, 437
GW’s aspiration toward, 56, 67, 88–89
Jefferson in, 145, 165, 598
Lawrence Washington in, 16, 23
opposition to Stamp Act in, 138–39, 143–47
response to Boston Port Bill in, 166–67
Virginia Convention and, 170
House of Commons, British, 139, 568
slave trade banned by, 639
House of Representatives, Massachusetts, 200
House of Representatives, U.S., 566, 567, 590,
621–22, 635, 670, 767, 816
bank bill in, 648–49
form of address for president discussed in,
575–76
Hamilton investigated by, 686–87, 690, 713
increased army troops allowed by, 668
Jay Treaty in, 730, 740–42
proportional representation in, 536
Republicans in, 685
see also Congress, U.S.
Howe, Richard, Viscount, 294, 301

Index r! 8 85
and British invasion of New York, 235–36,
238–41, 245, 249, 251
Howe, Robert, 390
Howe, William, 184, 192, 208, 264, 327, 338
and Battle of Brandywine, 302–3, 305
and Battle of Germantown, 307–8, 311
in Battle of Trenton, 270
Boston occupied by, 225–27
and British invasion of New York, 235–36,
238–41, 245, 247–49, 254, 395
departure of, 337
knighting of, 263
negotiated solution pursued by, 263
New Jersey incursions of, 300
New York occupied by, 254, 257, 259–63, 270,
286, 300–301, 315
Howell, David, 446
Howell, Richard, 633
Howland, Prince, 287
Huddy, Joshua, 426
Hudson Highlands, 260, 265, 300
Hudson River, 229–31, 238, 243, 259, 263, 264,
267, 300–301, 316, 347, 361, 363, 380–82,
387, 388, 389, 404, 405, 407, 425, 440,
448–49, 563, 617, 633
Hudson Valley, 314, 350, 362, 381
Humane Society of the City of New York, 133
Humphreys, David, 104, 120, 124, 389, 409,
454–55, 473–75, 492, 512, 517–18, 521, 544,
560, 565, 567, 569, 570, 572, 577, 583, 592,
606, 608, 650, 687
Hunter, Robert, 449, 468, 502–3, 582
Huntingdon, Earl of, 234
Hurley, James, 651
implied powers doctrine, 650
import duties, 575, 672
indentured servants, 142, 183, 334, 703, 708
Independence Hall, 634
Indian Queen, 534
Indians, 32, 39, 87–88, 169, 788
American relations with, 665–68, 718
in American Revolution, 358–61
atrocities of, 42–43, 73
as British allies, 35, 49, 73, 358–61, 665, 715,
717
conﬂicts between settlers and, 63, 69–70, 480,
501, 590, 665–66, 717, 770
as French allies, 36, 37–38, 47–48, 54, 58, 60,
69, 91
fur trade with, 137
GW’s ambivalent relations with, 358–61
GW’s ﬁrst encounter with, 20
GW’s image among, 61, 149
and GW’s mission to the French, 33–36

Knox’s land policy on, 591–92
Wayne’s expedition against, 668, 717–18
Industrial Revolution, 609
Innes, Harry, 736
Innes, James, 45
Instructions to His Generals, 333
Intolerable Acts (Coercive Acts) (1774), 166
Ireland, 724, 750
revolutionaries from, 236–37
settlers from, 137
Irish Americans, 534
Iroquois Confederacy, see Six Nations
Irving, Washington, 262, 584
Izard, Ralph, 591
Jack (slave), 158
Jack “Mulatto Jack” (slave), 116–17, 118
Jackson, Andrew, 764–65, 772
Jackson, James, 623
Jackson, Robert, 17
Jackson, William, 529, 531, 574–75, 608, 625,
627, 645, 651, 653
Jacksonian era, 550
Jacobins, 688, 697, 698, 726, 792
Jameson, John, 381–82
James River, 399, 407, 411, 500–502
James River Company, 501–2, 803
Jay, James, 288
Jay, John, xvii–xviii, 288, 366, 374, 442, 498, 515,
576, 580, 585, 608, 614, 633, 656, 697, 713,
752, 757
as chief justice, 598, 601–2, 618, 690, 695
Constitutional Convention and, 521, 529, 533
in election of 1789, 551
as envoy to Britain, 716, 729–31
Federalist papers and, 544–45
as governor of New York, 730
as president of Continental Congress, 353
resignation as chief justice by, 730, 736
Jay, Sarah, 585
Jay Treaty, 729–33, 737, 740–44, 746, 751, 752,
756, 764
Jefferson, Thomas, 12, 127, 163, 187, 362, 410,
467, 470, 540, 542, 547, 550, 601, 614, 624,
632, 684, 685, 700, 710, 813
on Adams, 779
as agrarian, 482, 484, 609, 629, 649
ambivalence of, toward Constitution, 599, 698
anti-British policies of, 670
appearance and personality of, 599, 712
bank bill opposed by, 648–50
cabinet resignation of, 697
on capital city, 663–65, 703
deal with Hamilton by Madison and, 630–31
Declaration of Independence and, 236

8 86

r! Index

Jefferson, Thomas (cont.)
diplomatic assignment to Paris of, 473, 510,
512, 516
in election of 1796, 765
in election of 1800, 816
on First Continental Congress, 171
France and French Revolution supported by,
656–57, 658–61, 670, 677, 689, 690–96, 713,
797
as governor of Virginia, 387, 399
on GW, xix, 99, 113, 139, 290, 305, 456, 582,
595, 599–600, 603, 604, 609, 626, 655, 686,
765–66
GW deceived by Hamilton in view of, 620,
669, 677, 679, 742, 797
GW’s falling-out with, 695, 711–13, 728,
742–43, 744, 756, 779–80, 816
Hamilton’s rivalry with, 627, 630, 669–83,
690–94, 696–97, 711–13, 730
in House of Burgesses, 138, 145, 165
on Lafayette, 296
Madison’s alliance with, 514, 516, 630, 675,
682, 691–93, 726, 735, 736, 742, 766
Martha Washington and, 816
and Mazzei letter scandal, 780
monarchy feared by, 497–98, 630, 656, 660–61,
670, 671, 678, 683, 713, 780
as populist, 682
powerful national government feared by, 515
as Republican presidential candidate, 754
in resignation from cabinet, 711–13, 727
retirement desired by, 693
as secretary of state, 596, 597, 598–600, 602,
627, 657, 669, 675–76, 677, 701
and slavery, 111, 487, 492–93, 584, 758, 794,
802
Society of the Cincinnati opposed by, 498
as states’ rights advocate, 631
as vice president, 79, 767–68, 769
as Virginia aristocrat, 600, 682
on Whiskey Rebellion, 722
Jeffersonians, 594, 670, 671, 672, 683, 689, 707,
725, 741, 783, 787, 797
attempt to oust Adams by, 685
see also Republicans
Jenkins, Robert, 9
Jews, Judaism, 132, 153, 534, 632
Johnson, John, 153
Johnson, Samuel, 471
Johnson, Thomas, 187, 735
Johnson, Thomas, Jr., 150–51
Johnston, Samuel, 581, 588
Joncaire, Philippe Thomas de, 35–36
Jones, John, 625
Jones, John Paul, 362–63

Jones, Joseph, 435–36
Jones, Thomas, 192, 287
Journal of Major George Washington, The, 38
“Journal of My Journey over the Mountains, A”
(Washington), 19
Judge, Andrew, 183, 759
Judge, Ona (slave), 572, 637–38, 759–63, 800
judicial branch, 575, 601–2, 716
Judiciary Act (1789), 601–2, 737
Julius (slave), 100, 155
Jumonville, Joseph Coulon de Villiers, Sieur de,
42–50, 768–69
Kalb, Johann de, Baron, 305–6, 336, 374
Kanawha Canal, 502
Kelly, Nelson, 112
Kentucky, 731
admitted to Union, 650, 771
Ketchum, Isaac, 232
King, Boston, 441
King, Rufus, 673, 697, 735
King’s Chapel (Stone Chapel), 611–12
King’s College (Columbia University), 157,
160–61, 204, 292
Kip’s Bay, 252–53, 255, 310
Kitt, Frederick, 763
Knight, Humphrey, 78
Knowlton, Thomas, 254
Knox, Henry, 219, 225, 262, 306, 324, 354, 376,
386, 416, 427, 446, 545, 551, 563, 569, 608,
677, 700, 712, 781
as acting president, 701
in Battle of Germantown, 309
in Battle of Princeton, 280, 281, 284
in Battle of Trenton, 276
as bookseller, 195, 204
character and personality of, 203–4, 293, 339
and Constitution, 522–24, 529, 536, 597
in defense of New York, 234–35, 239–42
in Delaware crossing, 272, 273
GW’s correspondence with, 461, 465, 470, 473,
496, 502, 525, 541, 559
GW’s disappointment in, 719–21, 724, 727–28
in GW’s farewell, 451–52
GW’s trust and friendship for, 205, 597,
696–97, 767
as Hamilton ally, 671, 694–95
Indian policy of, 591–92, 665, 668, 717
in new army, 786–90
in resignation from War Department, 727–28
as secretary of war, 507, 591, 596–97, 666, 669,
694–95, 713
Shays’s Rebellion and, 517–18
Society of the Cincinnati founded by, 444,
497–98

Index r! 8 87
standing army supported by, 256, 666–68
Ticonderoga guns transported by, 209, 223–24
Whiskey Rebellion and, 719–21, 724, 727–28,
786
at Yorktown, 413, 415
Knox, Lucy Flucker, 204, 241, 330, 354, 360, 727,
770, 775
Knyphausen, Wilhelm von, Baron, 262, 302–4
Lafayette, Adrienne de Noailles, 297, 298, 304,
332, 365, 487, 688–89, 704, 714, 737, 782
Lafayette, George Washington, 332
in America, 737–39, 769
Lafayette, James Armistead, see Armistead, James
Lafayette, Marquis de, 208, 295, 296–99, 302,
316, 319, 335, 340, 349, 355, 360, 373,
376–78, 393, 394, 416, 464, 498
Arnold affair and, 381, 383, 384, 386
in Battle of Brandywine, 304–5
French Revolution and, 658–61, 687–89
on GW, 342, 343
GW’s closeness to, 331–32, 350–51, 364–65,
372, 411, 474, 486, 488, 738
GW’s correspondence with, 362, 364–65, 442,
461, 462, 465, 466, 471, 481, 485–86, 488,
514, 538, 543, 545, 547, 549–50, 551, 566,
625, 627, 669
imprisonment of, 688–89, 714, 737–38
invasion of Canada advocated by, 350
in release from prison, 739, 782
in return visit to America, 486–88
slavery opposed by, 439, 485–89, 491, 639, 709
in Virginia, 387, 399–400, 403, 407, 408–9
at Yorktown, 414–15, 418, 420
Lake Champlain, 184, 379
Lake Erie, 31, 33
La Luzerne, Chevalier de, 363, 384
Lancaster, Pa., 306, 323, 339, 446
Langdon, Elizabeth, 760
Langdon, John, 560
Langdon, Samuel, 194
Lansdowne portrait, 747
Lansing, John, Jr., 534
Latrobe, Benjamin, 738–39, 777
Laurens, Henry, 295, 316, 336, 352, 354–55
GW’s correspondence with, 307, 320, 323, 327,
341, 344, 349, 350
Laurens, John, 295–96, 299, 302, 316, 320, 333,
336, 348, 386, 418
death of, 430
in duel with Lee, 346
slavery opposed by, 295, 354–56, 430, 440, 491
as special envoy to France, 391, 401
Lauzun, Duke de, 403, 409
Law, Thomas, 748–49

Lear, Polly Long, 574, 636, 700, 747
Lear, Tobias, 133, 562–63, 567, 570, 574, 580,
582, 586, 591, 604, 608, 616, 627, 634–35,
643, 645, 651, 654, 667, 675, 679–80, 700,
706, 708, 754, 769, 776, 795
GW’s ﬁnal illness and, 806–7, 809–10
marriage of Fanny Bassett Washington and,
747
slavery and, 114, 474, 636–39
as surrogate son, 474–75
Lee, Ann Fairfax, see Washington, Ann Fairfax
Lee, Charles (attorney general), 736
Lee, Charles (general), 24, 175, 182, 184, 185,
191, 193, 194–95, 204–5, 213, 215, 226, 229,
230, 243, 260, 271, 317, 321
at Battle of Monmouth, 340–46
British capture of, 267–68
correspondence with Reed, 265–67
court-martial of, 345–46
rivalry of GW and, 258, 263, 265–67, 338–39,
340, 346, 382
Lee, Frank (slave), 118
Lee, Henry “Light-Horse Harry,” 182, 306, 363,
365, 387, 491, 517, 551, 603, 629, 684, 686,
695, 707, 712, 742–43, 793
funeral oration for GW by, 811–12
Whiskey Rebellion and, 720, 725
Lee, Mary, 118
Lee, Richard Henry, 182, 195, 201, 206, 212, 236,
314, 471, 501, 576, 625, 626
GW criticized by, 317, 319
Lee, William “Billy” (slave), 118–19, 124, 149,
171, 173, 198, 207, 217, 221, 326, 343, 359,
360, 493, 494–95, 526, 531–32, 562–63, 634,
636–37, 641, 801, 802, 815–16
portraits of, 191, 494
Lefﬁngwell, Ebenezer, 255
Legaux, Peter, 534–35
legislative branch, 590, 596, 619, 680, 691, 771, 779
under Articles of Confederation, 513–14
equality between executive and, 568
supremacy of, 590
Leibiger, Stuart, 607
Le Mayeur, Jean-Pierre, 438–39, 513, 642
L’Enfant, Pierre Charles, 499, 566, 652, 662–65
Lengel, Edward G., 361
Lenox, David, 719
Leslie, Alexander, 430
Letters from a Farmer in Pennsylvania to the
Inhabitants of the British Colonies (Dickinson), 146
Lewis, Betty Washington (sister), 7, 98, 158, 422,
524–26, 588–90, 647, 775, 795
Lewis, Fielding (brother-in-law), 98, 129, 158,
215, 396, 422, 524

888

r! Index

Lewis, Fielding, Jr. (nephew), 465
Lewis, George W. (nephew), 132, 216
Lewis, Howell (nephew), 616, 700, 805
Lewis, Lawrence (nephew), 775–76, 795, 803
Lewis, Rachel, 637
Lewis, Robert (nephew), 571–72, 575, 580, 583,
590, 663, 800
Lexington and Concord, Battle of, 181–82, 206,
212, 436, 613
Liberty Hall Academy (Washington and Lee
University), 803
Life of Washington, The (Weems), 813
Lincoln, Abraham, xix, 647
Lincoln, Benjamin, 366, 371, 415, 418, 431, 474,
518, 529, 786
Lippincott, Richard, 426
Lispenard, Leonard, 192
Little Falls, 158, 431, 524, 716
Little Hunting Creek, 4, 7, 9, 77
Little Sarah (La Petite Démocrate), 694–95
Livingston, Edward, 740
Livingston, Robert R., 568, 569, 576
Livingston, William, 244, 265, 343
Lomax, John, 165
Long Island, 245, 246, 247, 251, 253, 270, 280,
451, 625
Loring, Elizabeth Lloyd, 239
Loring, Joshua, Jr., 239
Loudoun, John Campbell, Earl of, 71–72, 74, 76
Louis XIV, king of France, 471
Louis XV, king of France, 297
Louis XVI, king of France, 297, 359–60, 364,
427–28, 486, 510, 658, 661, 688
execution of, 689, 691
Louisiana, 34, 692
Louis-Philippe I, king of France, 799
Lovell, James, 319
Loyalists, 183, 396, 419, 423
in Boston, 194, 227, 228
GW’s policy toward, 287
in mid-Atlantic states, 301, 314–15
in New Jersey, 264, 267, 269, 283, 287, 308, 426
in New York, 160, 192, 229, 232–33, 243, 252,
287, 381, 449
in Philadelphia, 337–38
proﬁteering and, 337–38
as refugees, 448, 449
southern, 344, 398
see also Tories
Lynch, Michael, 232
Lynch, Thomas, 173
McCoy, Henry, 707, 751
Maccubin, Martha Rolle, 455
McCullough, David, 262

McCurtin, Daniel, 235
McDougall, Alexander, 258, 320, 451
McGillivray, Alexander, 591
McHenry, James, 291, 340, 382, 393, 456, 561,
577, 587, 605, 777, 782–83, 798
as secretary of war, 735–36, 785–86, 788–89,
796
Mackay, James, 45–48, 50
Mackenzie, Frederick, 262
McKnight, John, 625–26
Maclay, William, 478–79, 569, 579–81, 585, 591,
595, 597, 618–19, 625–26, 630, 631, 636
Macomb, Alexander, 617, 673
McWhorter, Alexander, 288
Madison, James, 12, 215, 394, 432, 442, 500, 518,
543, 546, 547, 549, 564, 577, 597, 625, 655,
658, 712, 713, 716, 734, 806
on Adams, 779
anonymous assaults on GW’s administration
by, 672, 676–79, 691
anti-British policies of, 670
anti-Hamilton viewpoint of, 621–22, 635,
670–73, 675–78, 681
on Bill of Rights, 606–7
Constitutional Convention and, 519, 521, 522,
524, 526, 529–30, 533–34, 539–40, 741
deal with Hamilton by Jefferson and, 630–31
duplicity of, 678
Federalist papers and, 544–45
on GW, 122, 177, 605–6, 757, 779
as GW’s adviser, 566, 575–76, 594, 599, 635,
678–79, 738
GW seen as manipulated by Hamilton, 677
GW’s falling-out with, 742, 744, 756
GW’s farewell address drafted by, 679, 752–54
GW’s inaugural address and, 566
honorary French citizenship for, 689
in House of Representatives, 566, 575, 606,
621, 726
as inﬂuence on GW, 516–17
on Jay Treaty, 730–31, 741–42
Jefferson’s alliance with, 514, 516, 630, 675,
682, 691–93, 726, 735, 736, 742, 766
national bank opposed by, 648–50
neutrality objected to by, 691
Potomac capital site and, 629–31, 663, 704
and slavery, 111, 487, 489, 516, 623–24, 758
as states’ rights advocate, 621, 623
Whiskey Rebellion and, 722, 724–25
Magaw, Robert, 261
Magdalen (ship), 177
Magowan, Walter, 155
Maine, 379, 719–20
Manhattan, 238, 245, 246, 249, 252, 259, 405,
425

Index r! 8 8 9
manufacturing, 609–10, 618, 629, 671–72, 676
Marat, Jean-Paul, 688
Marblehead, Mass., 250, 612
Marie-Antoinette, queen of France, 204, 297,
364, 427, 486, 661, 714–15
Marin, Sieur de, 34
Marshall, John, 66, 214, 604, 650, 736, 783, 814
congressional candidacy of, 787–88, 793
on GW, 122, 131, 327, 765
GW’s death announced in Congress by, 811
Martin, Joseph Plumb, 250, 252–53, 257, 341
Martin, Thomas Bryan, 88–89, 128
Marye, James, 12
Maryland, 40–41, 50, 67, 148, 151, 291, 399, 408,
455, 704
Constitution ratiﬁed by, 545
in Potomac and James River navigation
schemes, 500–503
troops from, 184, 264
war debt paid by, 630
Mason, Charles, 148
Mason, George, 144–45, 146, 329, 545, 546–67,
680, 744
at Constitutional Convention, 529, 539–40
Declaration of Rights written by, 236
Fairfax Resolves and, 167–68
Virginia militias and, 174–75
Masons (Freemasons), 27–28, 451, 500, 568, 632,
653, 704, 720–21, 807, 810
Massachusetts, 37, 68, 138, 184, 198, 209, 228,
250, 333, 372, 405, 551, 608, 611
charter of, 166
at Constitutional Convention, 539
Constitution ratiﬁed in, 537, 545
equality in, 610
militia of, 183, 196, 235, 253
Shays’s Rebellion in, 517–19
Massachusetts Provincial Congress, 198
Mathews, David, 232–33
Mauld, John, 651
Mawhood, Charles, 281
Maxwell, William, 303
Mazzei, Philip, 467, 779–80
Mercer, George, 30, 90, 128–29, 138, 174
Mercer, Hugh, 261, 281
Mercer, John Francis, 490–91, 606
Merrick, Samuel, 272
Miami nation, 665–66
mid-Atlantic states, economy of, 357
Middle Brook, N.J., 300, 353, 354, 359
Mifﬂin, Thomas, 173, 190, 250, 253, 318–22,
326, 534
as president of Congress, 454, 455–56
Mifﬂin, Warner, 623–24
militias, 70, 610

in Continental Army, 195, 207, 244, 251, 256,
271, 307, 308, 349, 372, 374, 376
Indians vs., 665–66
New England, 183–84, 186, 194–95, 196–97,
208, 279
romanticization of, 197
standing armies vs., 71, 703
in wake of Battle of Lexington and Concord,
182
in Whiskey Rebellion, 719, 721
see also speciﬁc colonies
Minerva, 780
Minute Men, 181
Mirabeau, Count de, 614
Mississippi, 591
Mississippi Land Company, 137, 149
Mississippi River, 31, 33, 430, 771
Spain’s blocking of American commerce on,
481, 514, 740
Mohawk nation, 358–59
Moll (slave), 100, 118, 572, 637, 808–9
Monacatoocha, 33
monarchy:
American aversion to, 427–28, 455, 497–98,
548, 575, 579, 597, 600, 680
constitutional, 661
French, abolition of, 661, 688
Freneau’s crusade against, 671, 679
GW accused of tendencies toward, 548, 619,
645–46, 653, 679, 685, 687, 691, 713, 758
GW’s refusal of, 497–98, 671
Jefferson’s fear of, 497–98, 630, 656, 660–61,
670, 671, 678, 683, 713, 780
Madison’s fear of, 670, 672, 716, 742
Republican opposition to, 671, 691, 697, 731
money, 369, 770
America’s lack of, 373, 553
Continental, devaluation of, 328, 366–67,
389–90, 465
counterfeit, 366
national bank and, 648
paper, 136, 139, 622, 676
Monmouth, Battle of, 340–46, 347, 361, 378
Monmouth Court House, N.J., 340–41, 346,
347, 361
Monongahela River, 21, 32–33, 57, 59, 61
Monroe, James, 517, 658, 692, 710, 742, 757, 806
as American minister in France, 714, 716, 744,
745
on GW, 264, 546
GW’s alienation from, 744
and Reynolds scandal, 780
Montgomery, Richard, 210–11, 577
Monticello, 584, 600, 693, 702, 711–12
Moore, Bernard, 117–18

890

r! Index

Moore, John, 361
Morgan, Daniel, 197, 313, 314, 391, 786
Morgan, Edmund, 350
Morgan, J. P., Jr., 103
Morgan, Philip, 116
Morocco, 714, 771
Morris, Gouverneur, 531, 538, 542, 548, 550, 570,
583, 604–5, 607, 659, 685, 781, 798
as envoy to England, 656–57
on GW, xix, 104, 596
as minister to France, 688, 690, 692, 693, 714,
716
Morris, Mary White, 527, 580, 625, 634
Morris, Robert, 370, 446, 489, 526–27, 529, 535,
592, 625, 791
funds raised by, 288–89, 424–25
Philadelphia presidential mansion rented by,
633–34
as superintendent of ﬁnance, 391, 406, 408,
449
treasury secretaryship declined by, 597
Morris, Robert Hunter, 69
Morris, Roger, 68, 252
Morristown, N.J., 285–86, 288, 293, 300, 366–70,
372, 389
Mortier, Abraham, 230
Mount Vernon, 4, 16, 19, 22, 25, 54, 61, 75, 81,
82, 83, 86, 91, 100, 101, 107, 129, 130, 138,
140, 144, 153, 156, 159, 161, 166, 167, 168,
171, 175, 182, 183, 189, 190, 202, 206, 212,
214, 215–16, 221, 321, 330, 355, 364–65,
423, 424, 430, 431, 438, 441, 445, 448, 449,
471, 487, 489, 492, 494, 504, 505, 509, 510,
511, 513, 521, 526, 527, 535, 538, 540, 542,
543, 546, 555, 560–61, 574, 580, 586, 595,
615, 631, 634, 637–41, 643, 647, 661, 663,
679, 680, 681, 682, 687, 694, 701, 704, 718,
738, 747, 753, 758, 759, 761, 763, 784, 785,
787, 789, 795, 796, 797, 799–800, 805, 813,
814–15
approach of British Army to, 399–400
attempt to lease out farms at, 750, 778
Bushrod Washington as heir of, 493, 803
economic self-sufﬁciency at, 141–42, 147
entertaining at, 122–23, 126
ﬁshing at, 141–42
ﬁve farms at, 112–13, 141
GW comes into possession of, 52
GW’s diversiﬁcation at, 141–42, 778–79
GW’s farming at, 53, 109–20, 141, 142, 468,
481–84, 485, 552, 553, 707–9, 750–51, 782,
796–97
GW’s ﬁnal return to, 754–55, 767, 769–70,
775–76, 781–82, 790
GW’s funeral at, 809–10

GW’s inheritance of, 98
GW’s postwar return to, 457, 461, 465–66, 552
GW’s pre-Yorktown return to, 409–10
as GW’s refuge, 99, 243, 246, 256, 286, 290,
399, 442, 515, 559, 569, 571, 633, 652, 655,
690, 708, 716–17, 728, 731–32, 766, 775
GW’s study at, 468
improvements to, 7, 76–78, 162–63, 476–78,
552, 776–77, 806
Lawrence Washington’s ownership of, 9, 10,
15, 23, 26, 77
management of, 705–10
Mansion House at, 112–13, 115, 163, 465, 540,
706, 708, 750, 802, 803
market economy at, 116
modernization of agriculture at, 481–84, 485,
707, 750–51, 797
postwar pilgrimages to, 454, 466–69, 472, 473,
493, 516, 525, 552, 708–9, 776–77
regimentation at, 478–79
swamp reclamation at, 495–96
Moustier, Count de, 567, 614, 617
Muddy Hole, 113, 465, 496, 706, 797
Muhlenberg, Henry, 307
mules, 483–84
Murray, Williams Vans, 793
Murthering Town, 36
Muse, George, 45, 150
Nancy (ship), 209, 759
National Assembly, French, 624, 639, 658, 660,
661, 688
National Gazette, 671, 674, 675, 677–82, 685,
687, 693, 694
National Guard of Paris, 658, 661
national university, proposed, 619, 705, 764, 803
Native Americans, see Indians
Navy, U.S.:
need for, 446, 457, 514
origins of, 209, 713–14, 715, 727, 770
Navy Department, 714, 783
Nelson (horse), 469
Nelson, Thomas, 407
Nelson, Thomas, Jr., 575, 583
Neptune (slave), 116–17
Neville, John, 719–20
Newark, N.J., 216, 633
New Brunswick, N.J., 264, 269, 283
Newburgh, N.Y., 425, 430, 470
uprising in, 434–36, 438, 499
Newcastle, Duke of, 45
New England, 312, 355, 361, 522, 546, 588, 670,
679, 720, 793
abolitionism in, 536
blacks accepted among troops in, 212

Index r! 8 91
British plans for isolation of, 243, 260
economy of, 357
GW’s disdain for, 194–95, 201–2, 211, 228–29
GW’s tour of, 608–13, 650
militias from, 183–84, 186, 194–95, 196–97,
208, 279
Sabbath in, 193
southern colonies and, 183, 185, 195–96,
197–98, 279
winter in, 207, 216–17
Newfoundland, 448
New Hampshire, 242
Constitution ratiﬁed in, 546
volunteer troops from, 183
New Jersey, 238, 249, 260, 274, 277, 282, 283,
285, 287–88, 300, 338, 339, 365, 368, 387,
452, 731
British domination of, 270
Constitution ratiﬁed by, 545
militia of, 241, 264, 269, 308, 389, 426, 719,
721, 722
retreat across, 264–67
New Jersey Line, 390–91
New Orleans, La., 31, 740
Newport, R.I., 348, 373, 392, 396, 403, 407, 632
New Windsor, N.Y., 361, 388, 389, 392, 396, 403
New York, N.Y., xvii, 138, 160, 192, 265, 267,
286, 400, 487, 634, 642, 644, 645, 697, 716,
731, 780
American retreat from, 251–53, 260, 280
British evacuation of, 439–43, 449–52, 466,
473
British invasion and occupation of, 244–64,
270, 286–88, 300–301, 315, 337, 338–39,
365, 368, 376, 384, 387–89, 395, 416, 419,
425, 427, 429, 438
ﬁnancial panic in, 673, 677, 720
as ﬁrst capital, 551–52, 553, 559–60, 562–65,
569–73, 575, 584–85, 589, 599–600, 602,
608–9, 611, 613–15, 625, 629, 633, 651, 775
GW’s Broadway residence in, 617, 625–26,
630, 633
GW’s Cherry Street residence in, 564, 567,
570, 572, 576–81, 583, 586–87, 613, 617
GW’s defense of, 229–33, 235–43, 251, 264
hopes for French-American invasion of, 372,
373, 377, 399, 401–5, 406–8, 416, 429
recovery from wartime of, 565
New York Bay, 348, 368
New York Harbor, 234, 249, 262, 380, 405, 406
New-York Journal, 626, 699
New York Manumission Society, 623
New York Provincial Congress, 192–93, 232
New York State, 184, 209, 300–301, 313, 315, 359,
360, 365, 447, 670

at Constitutional Convention, 534, 539
Constitution ratiﬁed in, 546, 553
dissent on Constitution in, 543–44, 545
militia from, 314, 337, 381
Nicholas, Robert Carter, 75
Nicola, Lewis, 428
Niemcewicz, Julian, 784, 794, 799
Norfolk, Va., 137, 177, 214–15, 243, 598
North:
divide between South and, 676, 678
ﬁnancial revolution in, 622
greater income equality in, 610
GW’s tour of, 608–13, 632, 650
North, Lord, 147, 165–66, 419, 426
North Carolina, 45, 60, 182, 375, 398, 441, 651,
653–54
Constitution and, 546, 606–7
Northwest Territory, 665–68
Nova Scotia, 229, 235
Ogden, Matthias, 425–26
O’Hara, Charles, 418–19
Ohio Company, 20–21, 31, 32
Ohio Country, 21, 31–38, 52–62, 63, 67, 87,
89–91, 148, 151, 237, 479–81, 501, 553, 665,
743, 770
bounty lands in, 128, 148–50, 165, 167, 750
Ohio River, 21, 31, 61, 91, 148, 149, 150, 167,
172, 480, 500, 502, 665, 750
Ohio Valley, 137, 480, 514
Olney, Stephen, 415
Oneida nation, 358, 360
Orme, Robert, 53–54
Orre, William, 143
Osborne, William, 651
Osgood, Samuel, 564, 583
Otis, Sally Foster, 815
“Paciﬁcus,” 691
paciﬁsm, 623, 702
Paine, Thomas, 206, 214–15, 271, 306, 310, 325,
391, 429, 447
and French Revolution, 660–61, 689, 714–15
on GW, 264, 447, 714–15, 744–45
Paoli massacre, 307, 309
Paris (slave), 526, 532, 572, 609, 634–35, 641,
651
Parker, Daniel, 440
Parkinson, Richard, 495
Parks, Andrew, 647
Parliament, British, 167, 170, 184, 215, 259, 398
opposition to war in, 315, 416
taxation by, 137, 139, 144, 147, 165–66
Paterson, James, 240–41, 261
Paterson, William, 533, 735

892

r! Index

Paulus Hook (Jersey City), 229, 363, 633
Peale, Charles Willson, 1, 123, 152, 154, 158–60,
161, 179, 217, 229, 235, 269–70, 283–84,
313–14, 424, 437, 454, 509, 534, 745–46
Peale, James, 270, 746
Peale, Raphaelle, 746
Peale, Rembrandt, 745–46, 773
Peale, Titian, 746
Pearce, William, 706–7, 751, 758
Pendleton, Edmund, 182, 189, 728
Pendleton, Patrick, 171
Penn, Richard, 160
Pennington, Isaac, 19
Pennsylvania, 40–41, 69, 89, 148, 207, 267, 269,
276, 315, 360, 361, 527
abolition of slavery in, 636–39, 758–59, 762
Constitution ratiﬁed by, 545
legislature of, 323–24
militia of, 719, 721
Supreme Executive Council of, 724
troops from, 184, 281
western, 552–53, 636, 750, 779
Whiskey Rebellion in, 718–22
Pennsylvania, Executive Council of, 527
Pennsylvania, University of (College of Philadelphia), 647
Pennsylvania Abolition Society, 623
Pennsylvania assembly, 453–54
Pennsylvania Council for Safety, 286
Pennsylvania Gazette, 531, 687
Pennsylvania Line, 389–90
Pennsylvania Senate, 701
Pennsylvania State House, 526–27, 539
Pennsylvania Supreme Court, 713
Pennypacker’s Mill, 306, 310
Peros (slave), 116–17
Perseverance, 440
Petite Démocrate, La, 694–95
Philadelphia, Pa., 68, 72, 89, 119, 130, 134, 144,
159, 160, 176, 213, 216, 217, 235, 272, 285,
286, 288, 298, 384, 408, 441, 487, 489, 494,
498, 499, 512, 561, 562, 563, 564, 572, 597,
615, 625, 660, 672, 673, 731, 745, 748, 750,
754, 777
Arnold as military commandant of, 379–80
British departure from, 337–39, 347, 379
British invasion and occupation of, 302–11,
315, 323, 329, 337, 380
as capital, xviii, 306–7, 350, 424–25, 432, 446,
604, 629, 631, 633–38, 642–47, 651, 653,
655, 663–65, 667–68, 671, 673, 674, 683,
687, 690, 692–95, 698, 704–5, 711–12, 717,
721, 724–25, 727, 729, 731–33, 736, 738,
754, 758, 760–62, 766, 770, 775
civilian life in, 353

Constitutional Convention held in, 517, 520,
523–24, 525–26, 531, 533–34, 536, 542,
548, 741
Continental Army in march through, 301–2
Continental Congress’s retreat from, 270, 300,
306, 311, 323
fears of British advances on, 260, 265, 269,
270, 300–301
First Continental Congress in, 171–74
GW’s postretirement visit to, 790–91, 796
GW’s visit to Congress in, 351–53, 354, 367
presidential mansion in, 633–34, 635, 645–46,
665, 693, 759, 768–69
Second Continental Congress in, 182–84, 191,
208
yellow fever outbreak in, 700–703, 711
Philipse, Mary “Polly,” 68, 252
Phoenix (ship), 238
Pickering, Timothy, 199, 301, 305–6, 308, 394,
404
as secretary of state, 735–36, 785–86, 788
as secretary of war, 728, 732, 733–35
Piel, Jakob, 275
Pierce, William, 530–31
Pinckney, Charles, 710
Pinckney, Charles Cotesworth, 303, 546, 735,
786, 790
Pinckney, Thomas, 740, 782
as Adams’s running mate, 754, 765
Pine, Robert Edge, 463, 509, 534
Pintard, John, 747
Piper, Harry, 165
pirates, Barbary, 514, 713–14, 771
Pitt, William, 91
Pittsburgh, Pa., 719, 725
Pleasants, Robert, 489
Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral
(Wheatley), 220–21
Pope’s Creek, 6, 10, 12, 15
Pope’s Day, 210
populism, 671, 682, 685, 758
Porterﬁeld, Robert, 132
Portsmouth, N.H., 612–13, 759–62
Portugal, 592
postmaster general, 596
Post Ofﬁce, 675, 701
Potomac River, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 16, 40, 52, 56, 115,
116, 120, 123, 125, 162, 163, 243, 462, 471,
477, 486, 495–96, 543, 546, 784, 809, 810
federal district by, 629–32, 652, 662–65,
703–5, 748, 761, 764, 770, 784, 793–95
navigation schemes for, 150–51, 480, 500–503,
631, 716
Potomac River Company, 501–5, 803
Potts, Isaac, 324, 366

Index r! 8 93
Powel, Elizabeth Willing, 528–29, 535–36, 539,
543, 646, 677, 683, 701, 763, 766, 769, 776,
778, 790–91, 808
Powel, Samuel, 477, 528–29, 543, 570, 646, 701,
766
Power, James, 83
Prager, Mark, Sr., 534
Pratt, Matthew, 528
Presbyterian Church, 132, 173, 479, 481, 611
Prescott (horse), 584, 651, 654
President’s House, see White House
press:
Alien and Sedition Acts and, 792–93
democracy and, 685
GW and his administration criticized by,
677–78, 681, 685–99, 707, 725, 743, 744–45,
753–54, 756–57, 758, 768–69, 777, 780, 793
Hamilton criticized in, 780–81
transformations of, 696
Price, Ezekiel, 195
Princeton, Battle of, 281–83, 285, 287, 288
Princeton, N.J., 279–84, 389, 408, 446, 453, 508
Princeton University (College of New Jersey),
133, 156–57, 479, 749–50, 795
Principio Company, 5, 7
privateers, 209, 362–63
Citizen Genet and, 692, 694–95
Proclamation Line, 148
promissory notes, government, 553
Prussia, 234, 332, 333, 688, 714
France’s war with, 688
public credit, 369, 618, 619, 635, 650
public debt, 620, 678, 680
Publius (Hamilton, Madison, and Jay), 544–45
Purple Heart, 429–30
Putnam, Israel, 191, 194, 226, 230, 242, 246, 247,
252, 253, 261, 314
Quakers, 173, 202, 203, 288, 489–90, 508,
622–24, 640, 644, 650
Quebec, 167, 210–11, 239, 350, 379
Quesnay, Alexander, 424
Quincy, Josiah, 229
Quincy, Mass., 789, 797
Raleigh Tavern, 146, 166
Rall, Johann Gottlieb, 270, 275–76
Ramage, John, 613
Ramsay, David, 12
Ramsay, Elizabeth, 218
Ramsay, William, 133, 500
Randolph, Edmund, 517, 521–23, 529, 533, 539,
545, 546, 671, 676, 678, 681, 691
as attorney general, 601, 637
on bank bill, 648–50

Fauchet allegations and resignation of,
732–35, 736, 744
as secretary of state, 713, 725, 731–32
on Whiskey Rebellion, 719
Randolph, Peyton, 171–72, 176, 182, 184, 735
Rappahannock River, 16, 158, 164, 524, 813
Raritan River, 264, 291
Rawdon, Lord, 234, 264
Rawlins, Albin, 796
Rawlins, George, 807
Redick, David, 724–25
Reed, Joseph, 200, 202, 211, 215, 220, 224, 240,
346, 353, 369
as aide to GW, 173, 190, 217, 241, 243, 247,
254–55, 271, 289, 292
criticism of GW by, 260, 265–67, 268, 291
Reed family, 481
Reﬂections on the Revolution in France (Burke), 660
Reinagle, Alexander, 615
religious toleration, 164
of GW, 132–33, 294, 569, 611, 632
Report on Manufactures (Hamilton), 671–72, 676
Report on Public Credit (Hamilton), 619–22
Republican Court, 645
Republicans, 671, 678, 681, 685, 694, 695,
697–98, 712, 713, 716, 727, 735, 738, 743,
744, 771, 780, 781
in 1800 election, 798
farewell address and coded critique of, 755–57
France supported by, 689, 691–92, 733, 756,
765, 782–83, 786–88, 792–93, 797
French Revolution admired by, 715
on GW’s second-term cabinet, 736
on Jay Treaty, 730–32, 740–42
Jefferson and Burr as candidates of, 754
slavery and, 758
small government and legislative predominance favored by, 771
on Whiskey Rebellion, 722
see also Jeffersonians
republics, republicanism, 523, 539, 569, 575, 600,
608, 742, 757, 812
Residence Act (1790), 631, 633, 663, 703, 793
revenue cutters, 619
Revere, Paul, 181, 642
Revolutionary War, see American Revolution
Reynolds, James, 780–81
Reynolds, Maria, 781
Rhode Island, 200, 202, 333, 334, 348, 354
British domination of, 270, 365
Constitution and, 539, 546, 606–7, 632
volunteer troops from, 183, 203, 207, 415
Rhode Island Army of Observation, 203
Rhode Island College (Brown University), 633
Richmond (slave), 637–38, 763

8 94

r! Index

Richmond, Va., 175, 176, 387, 487, 500, 509, 658
Ricketts, John Bill, 647
Ricketts’ Amphitheater, 766
Ridout, Mary, 456
Rights of Man, The (Paine), 660
Rittenhouse, David, 432, 599
River Farm, 113, 465, 797
Robardet, James, 615
Robert, Mary, 527
Robert Cary and Company, 104–8, 138–40, 144,
146–47
Roberts, William, 554–55
Robertson, Walter, 748
Robespierre, Maximilien de, 688, 714, 715, 719
Robin, Abbé, 406
Robinson, Beverley, 68, 381–82
Robinson, John, 53, 71–72, 74, 92, 138
Robinson, Sally, 583
Rochambeau, Count de, 372–74, 376–78, 387,
396, 401–5, 406–7, 409, 411, 413, 418, 429,
659, 715
Rodney, Admiral, 429
Rodney, Thomas, 636
Roman Catholic Church, 534
Rome, ancient, 331, 444
Roosevelt, Franklin, xix, 757
Rose (ship), 238
Ross, David, 144
Ross, James, 303
Roxbury, Mass., 206, 225, 472
Royal Navy, British, 17–18, 208–9, 234–36,
238–41, 243, 244–47, 249, 301, 315, 335,
347, 362–63, 373, 380, 414, 429, 457
French ﬂeet vs., 347–48, 409, 412
impressment and cargo seizures by, 715, 729,
730
in occupation of New York, 252–53, 257,
263–64
piracy in wake of withdrawal of, 514
rule of law, 660, 725, 770
Rumney, William, 153, 161
Rumsey, James, 480
Rush, Benjamin, 128, 183, 187, 272, 306, 312,
319, 321, 327, 404, 415, 593, 625, 673, 757,
758, 807, 813
Russia, 510, 688
Rutherford, Robert, 88–89
Rutledge, Edward, 559, 562
Rutledge, John, 529, 736
St. Clair, Arthur, 665–68, 717
St. Domingue (Haiti), 407, 639, 710, 799
St. John’s College, 795
St. Kitt’s, 117
St. Lawrence River, 31, 514

St. Paul’s Chapel, 255, 569, 585, 587, 599
St. Pierre, Jacques Legardeur de, 35–36, 37
Salem, Mass., 612, 613
Salem, Peter, 212
Sandwich, Lord, 234
Sandy Hook, 232, 234, 301, 339, 348, 405, 627
Saratoga, Battle of, 312–15, 317, 379, 417, 445
Sargent, Winthrop, 499
Savage, 399–400, 409, 419
Savage, Edward, 494, 503, 614, 624
Savannah, Ga., 355, 366, 632
Sayen, William Guthrie, 14
Scammell, Alexander, 345–46
School for Scandal, The (Sheridan), 126, 585
Schuyler, Philip, 191, 208, 210, 301, 311–12, 360,
368, 393, 585, 626
Schuylkill River, 306–8, 324, 534, 561
Scotland, 750
Scott, Charles, 340, 342
scrip, scrippomania, 673–74
Second Continental Congress, 176, 181–89, 295,
321, 359, 409, 446, 454, 506, 516, 635
in Annapolis, 453
archives of, 471–72
Brooklyn defeat and, 251
Continental Army and, 195, 197, 202, 207–8,
213, 228, 230, 235, 256, 258, 259, 264, 266,
267, 272, 277–78, 285, 287–90, 294, 298,
305–6, 313, 314, 318, 320, 322, 326, 327–28,
344, 346, 350, 353, 354, 361, 370, 371, 374,
375–76, 379, 388–91, 395, 427, 457–58
and criticisms of GW, 312, 316, 319, 335
Declaration of Independence in, 236–37
driven from Philadelphia, 270, 300, 306, 311,
323
GW in, 176, 409, 461, 529
GW’s compensation for expenses by, 444–45
GW’s resignation as commander in chief in,
455–57
as ineffectual, 378, 428, 458
medal struck by, 229
ofﬁcer revolt and, 432–39
settlements and, 480–81
state power vs., 327–28
treason and, 236–37
wartime debt and, 442
and Yorktown victory, 418–19
Second Virginia Convention, 176
securities, 621
government, 635, 673–74, 683, 781
Sedgwick, Theodore, 791
Ségur, Count de, 405
Seixas, Moses, 632
Senate, U.S., 566–67, 568, 577, 581, 591, 602, 635,
656, 687, 691, 726, 736, 785, 788–89, 794

Index r! 8 9 5
advice and consent of, 592–93
bank bill in, 648
closed-door policy of, 590
equal representation in, 536
excise tax in, 636
foreign relations in, 741
form of address for president discussed in,
575–76
Jay Treaty in, 730, 740
Seneca nation, 33, 359, 666
separation of powers, 566, 590, 592, 668, 685,
695
September Massacres, 688
Sequeyra, John de, 153
Serapis (ship), 363
Sergeant, Jonathan Dickinson, 319
Serle, Ambrose, 240, 242, 253
Seven Years’ War, 45, 332
see also French and Indian War
Shakespeare, William, 126, 214, 341, 588, 677,
720, 729, 756
Sharpe, Granville, 489
Sharpe, Horatio, 40, 50, 68–69
Shaw, Samuel, 382, 684
Shaw, William, 473
Shawnee nation, 34
Shays, Daniel, 517
Shays’s Rebellion, 517–19
Sheels, Christopher (slave), 572, 637–38, 801,
806, 808–9
Shenandoah Valley, 19, 23, 182
Sheridan, Richard, 126
Sheridan, William, 585
Sherman, Roger, 597
Shewkirk, Ewald, 235, 251
Shingas, chief of the Delawares, 33
Shippen, William, Jr., 173, 200, 286
Shirley, William, 68, 76
Short, William, 689
Sierra Leone, 441, 489
Silla (slave), 158
Sills, Isaac and Hannah, 494
Six Nations, 33, 149, 358–61
Six Per Cent Club, 673
Sketches of American Policy (Webster), 470
slaves, slavery, 6–7, 295, 333–34, 629
abolitionism and, 213, 355, 489, 536–37,
622–24, 629, 639, 650, 670, 671, 676, 703,
759, 760, 799
British promises of freedom to, 212, 213, 355,
399–400, 416–17, 419, 440–42, 639, 656
Constitutional Convention on, 532, 536–37,
623
construction of capital and, 703–4, 794–95
Continental Congress’s opposition to, 174

dower, 79, 638, 760, 800–803, 808, 810, 815
Federalist opposition to, 671, 758
GW and, 8, 10, 25, 28, 52, 68, 78, 98, 100, 107,
110–19, 137, 142–43, 149, 168, 174, 212–13,
217, 219–20, 334, 354–57, 396, 409–10, 419,
439–41, 454, 466, 468, 474, 476, 477, 479,
482, 485–96, 502, 537, 552, 563, 571–72,
584, 623–24, 633–41, 705–10, 718, 758–63,
776, 777, 799–803, 810, 812
GW’s plan for emancipation of, 495, 750–51,
811, 815
Hamilton’s opposition to, 355, 439, 489, 623
and ideals of the American Revolution, 485,
489
Jefferson and, 111, 487, 492–93, 584, 758, 794,
802
John Laurens on, 295, 354–56, 430, 434, 491
Lafayette’s opposition to, 439, 485–89, 491,
639, 709
Madison and, 111, 487, 489, 516, 623–24, 758
marriages of, 493–94
Martha Washington and, 79, 81–82, 116,
118–19, 636, 637, 640–41, 758–63, 800–803,
815–16
Mary Washington and, 113, 158, 589
northern termination of, 811
overseers and, 111, 113–14, 135
Pennsylvania and abolition of, 636–39,
758–59, 762
in population, 491, 536
runaway, 116–17, 143, 439–43, 654, 759–63
runaway, British refusal of restitution for, 639,
656, 729
St. Domingue rebellion and, 638, 710, 799
suspension of importation of, 168
trade in, 622, 624
trades taught to slaves in, 143–44
Virginia law and, 113, 116
smallpox, 199–200, 212, 227–28, 231–32, 286,
416–17
Smallwood, William, 247–48, 253, 308
Smith, Adam, 491
Smith, William, 309, 428–29, 788
Society for Establishing Useful Manufactures
(SEUM), 672, 673–74
Society of the Cincinnati, 444, 497–500, 520–21,
523–24, 527, 578, 583, 613, 614, 780
New York, 587
Sons of Liberty, 160, 698
Sons of St. Patrick, 534
South, 391, 676, 758, 783
abolitionism feared by, 622–24, 670
abolitionism in, 536, 799
discontent in, 655, 679
divide between North and, 673, 676, 678

896

r! Index

South (cont.)
ﬁghting in, 372
French interest in invading, 401–5
GW’s tour of, 650–55
GW’s weakness in, 639, 729
national bank feared in, 648
and projected war with France, 786–87, 793
push for capital in, 629–32, 704, 794
shift of war toward, 398–401
slavery in, 811
solidarity with New England of, 183
South Carolina, 258, 295, 297, 354, 355, 356,
371–72, 375, 430, 653
at Constitutional Convention, 536
Constitution ratiﬁed by, 545
slaves in, 536, 639
South Carolina Independents, 45–46
Spain, 363, 378
diplomatic breakthrough with, 740
England’s military confrontation with, 657
Florida as possession of, 654
Mississippi River commerce blocked by, 481,
514
possessions of, 692
in War of Jenkins’ Ear, 9
Sparks, Jared, 132, 516, 589, 814
Spear, Joseph, 303
speculation, 680
in government bonds and bank shares,
672–74
opposition to, 621
Spencer, Joseph, 242
Spotswood, Alexander (nephew), 709, 710
Staines, John, 762
Stamp Act (1765), 137–39, 159
Stamp Act Congress, 138, 566
Stanwix, John, 75, 89
State Department, 596, 602, 701
Freneau at, 671, 675, 680–82, 696
State House (Independence Hall), 183, 635
Staten Island, 233, 234, 235, 238, 239, 368, 407,
451
states, shortsighted behavior of, 514, 516
states’ rights, 621, 623, 631, 671
state vs. federal power, 611, 671
Stephen, Adam, 67, 128–29, 241, 275, 303, 306
Steuben, Frederick William August von, 332–33,
335–36, 338, 340, 343, 370, 371, 455,
497–98, 587, 588
in GW’s farewell, 451–52
Stevens, Edward, 701
Stevens, Elisha, 304
Stewart, Robert, 74–75, 91, 128, 139
Stewart, Walter, 434
Stirling, Lady, 330

Stirling, Lady Kitty, 330
Stirling, William Alexander, Lord, 160, 242,
247–48, 251, 303, 306, 341, 368
stock exchanges, 650
Stockton, Annis Boudinot, 103
Stony Point, 361–63, 380
Stuart, David, 422, 505, 544, 553, 576, 582,
584–85, 622, 623, 624, 627, 630, 650,
747–48, 751, 800
Stuart, Gilbert, xvii–xix, 29, 284, 557, 614,
746–47, 748
Stuart, Jane, 747
Stuart, William, 708
Sullivan, John, 199, 226, 242, 245, 246, 247–48,
251, 272, 275, 281, 303, 306, 327, 348, 360,
391–92
in Battle of Germantown, 308–10
Summary View of the Rights of British America, A
(Jefferson), 171
Supreme Court, U.S., 588, 592, 601–2, 700, 701,
736–37, 793, 803, 814
building not planned for, 703
implied powers doctrine and, 650
role of, 590
Susquehanna River, 471, 723
Talleyrand-Périgord, Charles-Maurice de,
782–83, 793
Tallmadge, Benjamin, 250–51, 310, 385, 449, 452
Tappan, N.Y., 385, 440
Tarleton, Banastre, 267, 391, 398, 417
taxes, taxation:
customs, 425
excise, 646, 678, 680, 718
federal, 425
in France, 658
GW on need for, 756
GW’s difﬁculty in payment of, 552, 553
on Loyalists, 338
national bank and, 648
representation and, 166, 168, 350
to restore American credit, 369
Shays’s Rebellion and, 517–19
states’ hesitation in raising of, 328, 425
suspicion of, 636
on whiskey, 636, 654, 718–20, 756
Taylor, Zachary, 584
tea:
boycott of, 166–67
taxation of, 147, 165–66
Telfair, Edward, 654
Temple of Minerva, The, 424
Tennessee, 764, 771
Ternay, Chevalier de, 372–73, 376
textile industry, 566, 572, 610, 672

Index r! 8 9 7
Thacher, James, 195, 226, 253, 327, 353, 359, 368,
408, 416
Thanksgiving Day, 585, 609
Third Massachusetts Regiment, 439
Thomas, John, 212, 226
Thomas, Margaret, 217, 494
Thompson, Benjamin, 197
Thompson, Josiah, 117
Thompson, Mary, 216, 438
Thomson, Charles, 455, 559–60, 569
Thornton, Edward, 604, 657, 676
Thornton, William, 703, 794
Thoughts of a Freeman, The, 312
Tilghman, Tench, 255, 291, 296, 318, 342, 380,
393, 506
Tilton, James, 455
Time Piece, 781
tobacco, 109–10, 138, 141, 142, 171, 482, 622,
750–51
Toledo, Ohio, 717
Tom (slave), 117, 174
Tories, 160, 194, 204, 228, 229, 232–33, 252, 264,
267, 287, 301, 314–15, 338, 359, 362, 396,
399, 419, 426, 551, 601
see also Loyalists
Toussaint Louverture, François-Dominique, 710
Townshend Acts (1767), 143–47, 159, 165
Trask, Israel, 197–98
Treasury Department, 596, 597–98, 672–73, 675,
701, 760
controversy surrounding, 619
investigation of, 686–87
Treaty of San Lorenzo, 740
Trenton, Battle of, 275–77, 279–80, 285, 287, 344,
561, 744
Trenton, N.J., 269–82, 306, 389, 390, 407–8,
561–62, 563, 633, 638, 702
Trevelyan, George, 276
Trinity Church, New York, 230, 255, 617
Tripoli, 713, 771
Troup, Robert, 674
Trumbull, John, 191, 207, 226, 269, 270, 457,
473, 613, 614–15, 785
Trumbull, Jonathan, 767
Trumbull, Jonathan, Jr., 410, 412, 498, 797
Tryon, William, 192, 232, 255
Tucker, St. George, 411, 413, 417
Tudor, William, 230, 271
Tuileries, storming of, 688
Tunis, 713, 771
Twohig, Dorothy, 23, 98
Union, fear of dissolution of, 673, 683, 684, 685,
800
Union Farm, 113, 465, 797, 806

United States:
British recognition of, 430
commerce of, 771
credit crisis in, 553
European view of, 518, 551
foreign fears of chaos in, 455
internal improvements in, 609
interstate cooperation in, 503
military power of, 514–15
national unity in, 771
neutrality proclamation of, 690–96, 698, 703,
706, 715, 744, 756
new democratic culture of, 476, 481
political parties in, 669–70
postwar debt of, 514, 770
regulation of trade by, 514, 770
treaty power of, 514, 770
western frontier of, 629
University of Pennsylvania (College of Philadelphia), 64
Valley Forge, Pa., 118, 126, 293, 319–20, 323–36,
338, 343–44, 352, 353, 354, 379, 452, 458,
465, 535, 662, 813
Van Braam, Jacob, 32, 48
Van Cortlandt, Philip, 414
Vancouver Island, 657
Vandalia, 149
Van Swearingen, Captain, 128
Varick, Richard, 383, 384, 395, 438, 445
Varnum, James Mitchell, 333
Vassall, Darby (slave), 194
Vassall, John, 194
Vaughan, Samuel, 477, 478
Venango, 35
Venus (slave), 492–93
Vergennes, Count de, 311, 401
Vermont, admitted to Union, 650, 771
Vernon, Edward, 9
veterans, wartime promissory notes and, 620–22
veto, presidential, 649, 685
Victoire, La, 297
Vietnam War, 213
View of the Conduct of the Executive in the
Foreign Affairs of the United States, A
(Monroe), 744
Ville de Paris, 411–12, 420
Villiers, Louis Coulon de, 46
Vindication, A (Randolph), 734–35
Virginia, 4, 5, 182, 286, 291, 367, 372, 375, 387,
398, 399, 401, 412, 416, 441, 444, 513, 606,
621, 720, 731, 748, 759, 760, 761, 762, 803,
806
British threats to, 405–9
capitol building of, 512–13

898

r! Index

Virginia (cont.)
at Constitutional Convention, 527, 529, 536,
539–40
Constitution as controversial in, 545, 546–47
constitution of, 529
Constitution ratiﬁed in, 546, 553, 601
currency restrictions in, 136, 139
farming in, 483
Federalists in, 787–88
ﬁghting in, 403
free blacks in, 802
GW’s distancing from, 610, 622, 676, 729, 744,
751
hierarchical universe of, 6–7
militia of, 174–76, 191, 387, 399, 553, 719
moral climate of, 157
New England and, 183, 185, 195–96, 197–98
in Potomac and James River navigation
schemes, 500–503
riﬂemen from, 197, 200, 254, 313, 314
slaves in, 536
as slave state, 494, 495
Tidewater, 3, 6, 16, 107, 151, 501
travel and hospitality in, 466
troops from, 184, 275
vulnerability to attack of, 63
war debts paid by, 622, 630
Virginia, University of, xx
Virginia Association, 147
Virginia Convention, 170–71, 236
Virginia Gazette, 70, 146, 175
Virginia House of Delegates, 489, 500, 756
Virginia legislature, 396–97, 431–32, 446, 509,
516
GW named to Constitutional Convention by,
520
Virginia Plan, 529, 533
Virginia Ratifying Convention, 546, 601
Virginia Regiment, 39–50, 63–75, 78, 83, 99, 128,
137, 157, 169, 195
Virginia Resolves, 145–46
Vogels, Gerard, 453
Voltaire, 297, 402, 470, 510
Vulture, 381, 382, 385
Wabash nation, 665
Waggener, Thomas, 58
Waldo, Albigence, 325
Walker, Benjamin, 454–55
Wallis, George, 275
Walpole, Horace, 45, 106, 239, 315, 374
Walpole, Robert, 168
Walton, Moses, 287
Wansey, Henry, 717
Ward, Artemas, 184, 190, 194, 199, 227

Ward, Joseph, 103
War Department, 596–97, 701, 727–28, 735
War of Jenkins’ Ear, 9, 412
Warren, James, 198, 329
Warren, Joseph, 192
Warren, Mercy Otis, 218, 219, 283, 330, 464, 571,
573, 626, 628
Warville, Brissot de, 469, 483
Washington, Anne Pope, 4
Washington, Ann Fairfax, 15–16, 23–26, 52, 98
Washington, Augustine (father), 4–10
death of, 9–10, 11, 28, 162, 462
Washington, Augustine, Jr. “Austin” (half
brother), 5, 7, 9–10, 12, 38
death of, 130
GW’s relationship with, 15, 130
Washington, Bushrod (nephew), 135, 451, 479,
492–93, 546, 595–96, 601, 605, 763, 787–88,
815
GW’s papers and, 814
Mount Vernon inherited by, 492, 803
on Supreme Court, 793, 803
Washington, Charles (brother), 7, 129, 148–49,
158, 464, 775, 804
Washington, Corbin (nephew), 493
Washington, D.C., 770, 794–95, 798, 803
naming of, 662–63
see also Federal District
Washington, Elizabeth, 492
Washington, Fanny Bassett (niece), 330, 463–64,
468, 572, 573, 628, 638, 647, 687, 705–6,
709, 721, 760
marriage to George Augustine Washington of,
505, 511
marriage to Tobias Lear of, 747
portraits of, 463, 509
Washington, George:
active leadership style of, 225–27, 235–36, 247,
250, 264, 273, 275, 276, 279, 281–82, 285,
292, 310, 324–25, 406
at Adams’s inauguration, 767–68
address to rebellious ofﬁcers by, 434–36
as adjutant general for Northern Neck of
Virginia, 27, 28, 31, 38, 39–51
adopted children of, 104, 421–22, 463, 615–17,
647, 795–96
aging of, 437, 567, 581–82, 614, 627–28, 674,
675, 746, 752, 776
aides of, 290–92, 295–99, 314, 364, 391
ambitious nature of, 12, 56, 69, 81, 185, 547,
812
annual addresses (State of the Union
speeches) of, 618–19, 635, 664, 670, 702–3
appearance and clothing of, 11, 21, 25, 29–30,
51, 64, 79, 87–88, 97, 105, 121–22, 183, 185,

Index r! 8 9 9
189–90, 195, 223, 279, 363, 423, 436, 437,
446, 468, 566, 578, 579, 581–82, 587, 610,
618, 635, 645, 672, 764, 790
appearances important to, 222–23, 296, 529,
578, 634–35
approval sought by, 11, 53, 99, 122, 134, 222,
224, 271, 432
aristocratic tastes and habits of, 291–92, 293,
466, 476, 477–78, 490, 540
athleticism and vigor of, 14, 26, 29, 30, 32,
75, 121–22, 123–24, 206, 353, 364, 437,
500–501, 521, 542, 582, 627, 645, 655, 783
bank bill and, 648–50
with biographers and historians, 470–74, 492
birthday celebrations for, 687, 766
birth of, 6
as born joiner, 28
boycott of British goods supported by,
144–45, 146–47, 169
bravery and heroism of, 281–82, 283, 457, 549,
578, 694
British attacks at Lexington as viewed by,
181–82
burial place of, 810–12, 817
business behavior of, 148–49, 491, 750
cabinet of, 596–601, 603, 618, 630, 648, 656,
668, 670, 671, 677–79, 681–82, 687, 690,
694–97, 702–3, 712, 713, 719, 727–28, 730,
733, 735–36
capacity to learn from mistakes of, 49–50, 88,
320–21
celebrity and image of, 61, 90, 168, 173, 186,
191–92, 199, 219, 229, 467–68, 609
childlessness of, 103–4, 296, 493, 502, 549–50,
565, 795, 799
and command of new army, 784–91
as Constitutional Convention president, 527,
529–41, 548–49, 684
Continental Army commanded by, xix, 98,
101, 112, 133, 141, 163, 168, 169, 174,
185–219, 224–458, 522, 552, 570, 588,
602–3, 611, 684, 745
Continental Army inspired by, 235–36, 404,
457–58
as convivial, 122, 290–91, 405, 467, 805
cordial and correct nature of, 80, 199, 713
correspondence of, 289–90, 291, 328, 329, 356,
391, 463, 468, 472–73, 543, 677, 741, 757,
777, 786
criticisms of, 206, 260, 265–67, 268, 291,
312–22, 391–92, 394, 404, 568–69, 579–81,
597–98, 600, 631–32, 685–99, 693, 694, 696,
699, 707, 714–15, 734–35, 743, 744, 744–45,
752, 768–69, 780, 812
deafness of, 581, 625, 677, 716, 805

death of, 809–11
in Delaware crossing, 272–75
delegation of authority difﬁcult for, 555
deliberate nature of, 427, 604–5
democratic manner and republican simplicity
of, 363–64, 377
dental problems of, xviii, 30, 105, 290, 437–39,
512, 513, 609, 642–44
departure from presidency of, xviii, 130
diaries of, 120, 173, 510–11, 535, 623, 626,
627, 653–54, 723, 790
dignity of, 61, 364, 452, 580, 612, 616
dining and drinking habits of, 120, 122, 134,
135, 290–91, 293, 328, 353, 363, 370, 405,
580, 643, 776
discipline and, 64–65, 71, 195, 196, 198, 209,
237, 246, 255, 290, 302, 327, 364, 386–87,
388
discomfort with public speaking and celebrations by, 99, 145, 191, 193, 487, 550,
561–62, 563–64, 582, 609, 612, 633, 651,
770, 790
dislike of being touched, 411, 412, 531, 577,
687
disorder disliked by, 195–96
as distant, 66, 80, 535, 605, 676, 723
as distrustful, 600
domestic manufactures encouraged by, 483,
566
as dutiful but distant son, 11, 55, 396, 461,
462, 524–26, 588–90
as early riser, 7, 81, 119, 462, 468, 579, 776, 777
economic policies of, 369
education of, 11–13, 18, 155, 194, 202, 228,
429, 474, 596
egalitarianism not natural to, 201, 222–23,
238–39, 481
in election of 1789, 550–51, 554, 559–60
in election of 1792, 684
emotional nature of, xix–xx, 11, 30, 41, 56, 69,
70, 80, 84–86, 114, 122, 162, 217, 286, 292,
296, 331–32, 364, 377, 391–92, 409, 421,
452, 453, 456, 488, 605, 610–11, 695, 741,
766, 768
enthusiasm for Constitution of, 542–43
ethical standards of, 812
exercise prescribed for, 587–88, 627
eyesight of, xviii–xix, 29, 432, 435–36, 677
on fair treatment of civilians, 286–87
family dynamics of, 154–55
family history of, 3–6
farewell address of, 133, 752–58, 765, 793
“Farewell Address to the Armies of the United
States” of, 448
farewell to his ofﬁcers by, 451–52, 582

900

r! Index

Washington, George (cont.)
farming by, 53, 109–20, 141–42, 468, 481–84,
485, 491, 552, 553, 707–9, 750–51, 782,
796–97
fastidiousness and breeding of, 19, 20, 21, 39,
123, 197, 222–23
as Father of His Country, 104, 219, 324, 523,
549–50, 813
ﬁnal address to Congress by, 764–65
ﬁnancial troubles of, 107, 176, 465–67,
478–79, 486, 502, 541, 552–55, 634, 647,
687, 705, 707, 708, 750–51, 779, 796
in First Continental Congress, 171–74
ﬁrst inaugural address of, 104, 565–66,
568–69, 606, 672, 685
as ﬁrst lame-duck president, 766–67
ﬁrst presidential inauguration of, xviii, 439,
554, 562, 563, 566–71
ﬂirtations and romances of, 22, 26, 55–56, 68,
81, 83–86, 102–3, 126, 219, 365, 444, 504,
528–29, 535–36, 646, 778, 790–91
on foreign policy, 744
formal and austere manner of, 101, 199, 278,
577, 723
in French and Indian War, 71, 87–92, 144, 150,
157, 159, 166, 168, 172, 189, 199, 225, 226,
240, 251, 293, 387, 397, 423, 437, 474, 570,
701, 764, 790, 803, 806
French charmed by, 377
friendships of, 123, 199, 205, 217, 294, 616
in frontier life and warfare, 19–21, 23, 49,
53–54, 62, 65, 66, 69, 87–88, 92–93, 99, 182,
238, 358, 479–81
frustrations of, with Continental Army,
195–96, 253–54
funeral and memorial of, 809–10, 811–12, 816
on gambling, 134–35
generosity and charity of, 133, 507, 585, 647,
687, 702
as gentleman, 185, 187–88, 196, 266, 279, 293,
316–17, 384, 772, 790
good judgment of, 185, 292, 316
as Hamilton’s supposed dupe, 620, 669, 677,
679, 742, 797
health problems of, 23, 25–26, 57, 74–75, 78,
83, 91, 103, 129, 199, 294, 444, 520–21,
525, 526, 542, 586–88, 590, 591, 608, 611,
612, 613, 624–28, 645, 655, 675, 677, 693,
696–97, 717, 786, 797, 805–9
hero worship of, 7, 285, 378, 406, 453, 456,
466, 480, 481, 547–48, 605–6, 686, 693, 752,
767–68, 776, 811
historic sense of, 395, 461, 471, 679
honesty and honor of, 170, 188, 196, 266, 293,
394, 404, 521, 605–6, 638, 686, 754, 812

honorary French citizenship for, 689
horsemanship of, 124, 466, 469, 584, 588, 608,
627, 716–17, 796
in House of Burgesses, 88–89, 90, 91, 99–100,
118, 127–29, 138, 143–47, 151, 186
hunting by, 124–25, 141, 169, 496
idealism of, 70, 195
indecision of, 260–61, 262–63, 265, 267, 268,
303, 305–6, 309, 341, 684
industriousness of, 7, 119–20
levees of, 577–78, 589, 604, 686
Life Guard of, 222–23, 287
loyalty inspired and demanded by, 245–46,
271–72, 298, 327, 343, 406, 451–52, 567,
593, 725, 746
male life expectancy in family of, 4, 9–10, 130,
462, 488, 521
marriage of, see Washington, Martha Dandridge Custis
martial and majestic aura of, 183, 185, 195,
223, 264, 279, 302, 343, 377, 567, 578
as military neophyte, 182, 183–84, 188, 246, 248
military strategies and weakness of, 292, 310,
320, 404, 457
modesty of, 185–88, 230, 251, 264, 363, 364,
408, 418–19, 469, 471, 560, 567, 568, 587,
593, 663, 677
monarchical vs. republican styles of, 579,
584–85, 608, 771–72
mythologizing of, 812–14
need for strong central government seen by,
50, 69, 93, 151, 195, 352
neutrality proclamation and, 690–96, 698,
703, 706, 715, 744, 756
northern tour of, 608–13, 632, 650
North sided with, 676
ofﬁcial dinners of, 577, 580–81, 617
older men as sponsors and patrons of, 10,
16–17, 22, 69, 74, 138, 292, 296
as only possible president, 674–75, 680
in opposition to Townshend Acts, 143–46
papers of, xx–xxi, 777
patience of, 54, 345, 393
perceptive nature of, 604–5
perfectionism of, 114, 195, 278, 375, 391, 464
persuasiveness of, 207, 278–79, 499
Philadelphia social life and, 644–45
political appointments and, 559, 595–97
political mistakes of, 71–72
political opinions held in retirement of, 781–82
on political reforms, 442
political talent of, 56, 64, 99, 144, 173, 185,
188, 263, 268, 294, 320, 338, 350, 369, 411,
738, 812
popularity of, 66, 91, 199, 780

Index r! 9 01
portraits of, iv, xvii–xix, 1, 25, 29, 121, 123,
159, 179, 219, 229, 235, 269, 283–84, 289,
313–14, 326, 349, 424, 437, 454, 457, 459,
494, 503, 508–13, 529, 534, 557, 611–12,
613–15, 624, 643, 646, 720–21, 745–47, 748,
764, 773, 813
on power, 64, 66, 186, 313, 350
practical nature of, 462
presidency of, xix, xx, 19, 209, 369, 427,
574–607, 632
presidential accomplishments of, 602–7
as presidential heir apparent, 539, 545, 546,
547–51, 552
presidential prerogative and, 741
presidential salary of, 552
privacy sought by, 294, 467, 576, 577, 609
as proposed commander of new provisional
army, 783–91, 793
public service as commitment of, 11, 53,
133–34, 353–54, 370, 502, 515, 523, 541,
552, 571, 771, 812
public vs. private nature of, xx, 294, 314, 321,
356, 392
purely Virginia identity shed by, 610
reading by, 13, 466, 470, 777
real estate holdings of, 10, 18, 23, 26, 28, 77,
98, 107, 137, 144, 445, 465, 631, 704–5, 794,
803; see also Mount Vernon; Washington,
George, western land holdings of
realism of, 543, 600
reﬂective side of, 462, 463
regularity and routine of, 119–20, 196, 290,
468, 478–79, 511, 604, 777, 808
religious observances by, 11, 119, 130–33, 134,
173, 210, 293–94, 326, 360, 443, 469–70,
492, 534, 569, 585, 599, 611–12, 646, 808
religious toleration by, 132–33, 294, 569, 611,
632
resignation as commander in chief by, 455–57,
479, 547–49, 671, 674–75
retentive memory of, 411
reticence of, 370, 487, 511, 531, 779
retirement from presidency and, 675–78, 687,
694, 708, 751–52, 762
in return to private life, 442–43, 446, 453, 462,
464–65, 467, 515, 517, 541, 547
return to the presidency dismissed by, 797–98
as revered rather than loved, xix, xxi
revolutionary ideals and transformation of,
144, 168, 169–70, 196, 220–21, 222–23, 224,
227, 228–29, 236, 277–79, 286–87, 293, 324,
328, 363, 429, 476, 477, 576
Rhode Island visit of, 632
rumor of crown offered to, 428, 497–98
sage advice by, 86, 747

salary waived by, 187–88, 552
in Second Continental Congress, 176, 182–89,
409, 461
second inauguration of, 687
second term considered by, 675, 678, 683, 684,
696, 705
self-conﬁdence of, 93, 188, 224, 461
self-control of, 11, 14, 30, 32, 35, 56, 70, 86,
122, 134, 185, 186, 278, 296, 345, 474, 807
self-doubt of, 188, 547, 559, 562, 564, 569, 677,
754
self-improvement of, xx, 11–14, 25, 65, 122,
123, 199, 209–10, 812
self-restraint of, xviii–xx, 13, 17, 172, 214, 217,
313–14, 320, 342, 349, 452
sense of humor of, 103, 122
separation of church and state supported by,
132–33
silence and reserve of, 99, 122, 123, 131–32,
145, 162, 172, 185, 199, 266, 278, 288, 289,
290–91, 296, 352, 361, 370, 374–75, 394,
452, 463, 467–69, 530, 573, 576, 577, 578,
623–24, 677, 684, 735, 741, 789
skepticism of, 328–29, 382, 426
slavery and, 8, 10, 25, 28, 52, 68, 78, 98, 100,
107, 110–19, 137, 142–43, 149, 168, 174,
212–13, 217, 219–20, 334, 354–57, 396,
409–10, 419, 439–41, 454, 466, 468, 474,
476, 477, 479, 482, 485–96, 502, 537, 552,
563, 571–72, 584, 623–24, 633–41, 705–10,
718, 758–63, 776, 777, 799–803, 810, 812
slovenliness detested by, 119, 121, 126
smallpox inoculations urged by, 199–200,
231–32, 286
socializing with strangers as difﬁcult for, 577,
580–81
society of writers enjoyed by, 470–71
southern tour of, 650–55
as special envoy to the French, 31–38
speeches of, 499, 529–30, 560
spending and debt of, 104–8, 139–41, 162–63,
173, 451, 466, 478, 490, 514, 531–32, 553,
582–83, 617, 634
spontaneity lacking in, 305–6
spy network developed by, 288–89, 361, 365
standing army advocated by, 71, 369, 373, 375,
443, 618–19, 703, 714, 770
stoicism of, 11, 13, 66, 86, 271, 392
strong central government advocated by, 369,
395, 442, 515, 598, 669
strongly moral nature of, 66, 133–35, 157, 174,
196, 203, 209–10, 230, 233, 276, 277, 293,
324, 327, 569
as surveyor, 12, 18–21, 22–24, 26, 27, 32, 41,
158, 806

902

r! Index

Washington, George (cont.)
suspicions of French alliance by, 349–50
tact of, 69
temper of, xx, 11, 17, 63, 73, 114, 150, 266,
292, 320, 342, 345, 391–93, 394, 403, 511,
530, 554–55, 707, 726, 744
theater as passion of, 24, 122, 125–26, 147,
160, 424, 534, 585, 616, 647
as tobacco planter, 109–10, 138, 141, 142
two-term precedent set by, 752, 757–58, 771
upward social mobility of, 11, 16–17, 18, 28,
41, 75, 79, 98–99, 100, 104, 123, 144, 461
as Virginia planter, 144, 197, 222, 333, 355,
357, 491, 502, 519, 650, 672, 771–72
Virginia Regiment commanded by, 63–75,
87–92, 128, 157, 195, 570
volunteer military service by, 53, 55
wartime papers preserved by, 395, 445,
468–69, 471–72, 474, 508, 618–19, 777
wealth of, 98–99, 100, 127, 162, 185, 367, 410,
478
wedding of, 97
western land holdings of, 147–50, 165, 167,
176–77, 358, 410, 479–81, 501, 552–53, 634,
709, 725, 750, 779, 796
will of, 647, 801–2, 803, 808, 810–11, 815
women and, 101, 102–3, 125, 195, 210, 219,
295, 330–31, 353, 528–29, 535–36, 562, 564,
579, 611, 612, 613, 653
work ethic of, 114–15, 124, 152
as writer, 12, 19, 38, 125, 289–90, 329
younger men as allies of, 594, 599
Washington, George Augustine (nephew), 527,
533, 538, 552, 571, 803
death of, 687, 705
health problems of, 464, 663, 682
marriage to Fanny Bassett by, 505, 511
Mount Vernon managed by, 465, 478, 554,
555, 585, 694
Washington, George Steptoe (nephew), 464, 647
Washington, Hannah, 492–94
Washington, Harriot (niece), 464, 647
Washington, Henry (former slave), 441
Washington, Jane (half sister), 5, 7
Washington, Jane Butler, 5
Washington, John (great-grandfather), 3–4, 34
Washington, John (great-uncle), 5
Washington, John Augustine “Jack” (brother), 7,
15, 17, 30, 44, 53, 54, 56, 61, 129, 176, 206,
216, 227, 228, 230–31, 310, 348, 431, 465,
492–93
death of, 521, 524, 526
Washington, Lawrence (grandfather), 4
Washington, Lawrence (great-greatgrandfather), 3

Washington, Lawrence (half brother), 5, 7,
15–17, 98, 811
GW’s close relationship with, 8, 15, 16–17, 20,
22, 26
illness and death of, 23–26, 28, 52, 75, 129,
154, 162
military career of, 9, 27, 412
Mount Vernon inherited by, 10
Ohio Company and, 20–21, 31
Washington, Lawrence, of Chotank, 10
Washington, Lawrence Augustine (nephew), 464,
647, 775
Washington, Lund (distant cousin), 173, 201,
212, 256, 478, 492, 505, 552, 674
Mary Washington and, 158, 396–97
Mount Vernon managed by, 141, 202, 243,
246, 334, 356, 465–66, 527, 589
negotiations with British by, 399–400
Washington, Martha Dandridge Custis, 91, 100,
109, 125, 127, 132, 147, 161, 162, 168, 171,
235, 286, 365, 394, 445, 468, 491, 504, 509,
528, 535, 541, 575, 580, 581, 584, 587, 588,
633, 646, 655, 675, 700, 702, 711, 717, 721,
739, 746, 750, 770, 778, 781, 783, 790, 795,
800
on Adams’s election, 765
appearance and clothing of, 79, 80, 97, 105–6,
217, 353, 368–69, 410, 464, 469, 572–73,
637, 717, 764, 805
burial place of, 811, 817
childhood of, 81
childlessness of GW and, 103–4, 422, 493
at Continental Army camps, 216–19, 230–32,
294–95, 329–30, 353–54, 366, 370, 425, 430,
436, 572
deaths experienced by, 329–30, 505–6
dental troubles of, 513, 642
education of, 82, 143, 219
ﬁrst marriage of, see Custis, Daniel Parke
Friday evening receptions of, 578–79, 613,
645, 667
and GW’s appointment as commander in
chief, 188–89, 191, 202, 816
GW’s courtship of, 78–80
on GW’s health problems, 626, 628
and GW’s illness and death, 806–10
GW’s letters burned by, 814
GW’s loving but unromantic marriage to, 82,
101–2, 218, 295, 505, 536, 769
GW’s presidency regretted by, 560–61, 570–72,
573, 675
health problems of, 126, 152, 400, 446, 464,
804
illness and death of, 816–17
image of, 218, 219

Index r! 9 03
industriousness of, 81, 118–19, 152, 218, 330,
410
and Jacky’s death, 421, 424
Jefferson and, 816
kindness and generosity of, 133, 369
Mary Washington’s relationship with, 97–98,
423
modesty of, 81, 97, 152, 218, 369, 410, 469,
573
as mother and grandmother, 101, 153–55,
156, 163, 231, 421, 463, 463–64, 473, 486,
526, 573, 615–16, 814
on Native Americans, 360
Patsy mourned by, 162, 164
Philadelphia social life and, 644, 645
politics of, 330, 571, 816
portraits of, 80, 95, 106, 159–60, 217, 494, 509,
764, 814
religious observances by, 83, 131, 152, 816
on return to Mount Vernon, 770, 766, 775
Sally Fairfax and, 84–86
on Saratoga victory, 315
smallpox inoculation of, 231–32
sociability of, 80–81, 122, 152, 219, 295, 410,
469, 573, 578–79, 748, 776–77, 799, 814–15
strength and practical nature of, 80, 81, 216,
573, 816
Stuart’s portraits criticized by, 747
support and devotion of, 80, 81, 101, 143, 294
wartime activities of, 215–19
wedding of, 97
widowhood and grief of, 814–16
yellow fever epidemic and, 701
Washington, Mary Ball (mother), 5–7, 461, 462,
545–46
critical nature of, 7, 11, 15, 80, 395–97,
422–23, 588
death of, 588–90
GW’s wedding boycotted by, 97–98
pension requested by, 396–97, 431–32, 590
religious observances by, 131
as rumored Loyalist, 396, 423
stubborn and difﬁcult personality of, 6, 10–11,
98, 113, 157–58, 423, 524–26, 589
thwarting of GW’s career attempted by, 17–18,
53–54, 55, 63, 157, 189
Washington, Mildred (sister), 7, 8
Washington, Mildred Warner, 4–5
Washington, Richard, 64, 76, 99, 104, 106,
122–23, 129
Washington, Samuel (brother), 7, 129, 158, 192,
216, 267, 271, 289, 294, 373, 647
death of, 464
Washington, Samuel (nephew), 779
Washington, Sarah (niece), 52

Washington, William Augustine (nephew), 493
Washington administration, 608, 676, 677–78,
681, 691, 724, 733, 764, 770, 780
Madison’s anonymous assault on, 672, 677
revolt against, 670–71
Washington and Lee University (Liberty Hall
Academy), 803
Washington College, 428–29
Washington Family, The, 494, 503
“Washington’s Legacy,” 442–43
“Washington’s March,” 633
Watson, Elkanah, 489, 501
Wayne, Anthony “Mad Anthony,” 307, 309, 310,
339, 340, 343, 361–62, 389–90, 413
in Northwest Territory, 668, 717–18
Wealth of Nations (Smith), 491
Webb, Samuel Blachley, 225, 236, 237, 240
Weber, Paul, 326
Webster, Noah, 403–4, 470, 780
Wedgwood, Josiah, 140
Weedon, George, 254, 375
Weems, Mason L., 326, 813–14
Wentworth, Thomas, 9
West, Benjamin, 159, 454, 508, 512, 614
Westchester Light Dragoons, 450
West Indies, 142, 337, 347, 401, 505, 640, 710
British, 730
French, 715
markets shut to Americans in, 465, 514, 656
West Point, 361, 377, 378, 380–85, 388, 390,
400
military academy at, 764, 805
Wethersﬁeld, Conn., 401–3
Wheatley, John, 220
Wheatley, Phillis (slave), 219–21
Whigs, 427, 443, 470, 590
Whipple, Joseph, 761–62
whiskey, tax on, 636, 654, 718–20, 756
Whiskey Rebellion, 718–28, 755, 767, 786
White, Joseph, 218, 280
White, Philip, 426
White, William, 130, 132, 605
White House, 466, 584, 634, 703, 770, 794, 795
White House (Martha Washington’s home),
78
White Mingo, 149
White Plains, N.Y., 257, 258, 266, 291, 348
Whitting, Anthony, 640–41, 663, 694, 705–6
Wiencek, Henry, 82, 117–18
Wilkinson, James, 273, 276, 313, 317–18, 480
Willard, Joseph, 614
William III, king of England, 239
William IV, king of England, 425–26
Williams, Henry, 12
Williams, William Joseph, 720–21

9 04

r! Index

Williamsburg, Va., 27, 31, 34, 36, 37, 50, 55, 63,
69, 72, 74–75, 77–79, 83, 88, 90, 98, 127,
129, 137, 138, 143, 147, 148, 153, 165–67,
170, 171, 177, 236, 331, 410, 412, 437, 569,
584
social life in, 134, 135
Wills, Garry, 193
Wills Creek, 40, 48, 56
Wilmington, Del., 561, 702
Wilmington, N.C., 420, 653
Wilson, James, 719
Winchester, Va., 65, 69, 71, 73, 88, 111, 128
Witherspoon, John, 479, 481
Wolcott, Oliver, Jr., 727–28, 733–34, 736, 754,
760–61, 777, 785
Wollaston, John, 97
Wood, Gordon, 770

Wood, James, 88, 89
“World Turned Upside Down, The,” 418
Wright, Joseph, 508–9
Wright, Patience, 508
Wythe, George, 410
XYZ Affair, 783–84, 793
“Yankee Doodle,” 418
Yates, Robert, 534
yellow fever, 700–703, 711
York River, 407, 413, 414
Yorktown, Battle of, 344, 404, 407, 409–10,
412–21, 423, 427, 446, 469, 473
Yorktown, Va., 438, 441
Young, Arthur, 482–83, 629, 640, 709

About the Author

Ron Chernow is the prizewinning author of ﬁve previous books. His ﬁrst, The
House of Morgan, won the National Book Award. His two most recent books, Alexander Hamilton and Titan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr., were both nominated
for the National Book Critics Circle Award in biography. Chernow lives in Brooklyn, New York.

