Seeing the law is the single most important skill a photographer can learn.

It is the very foundation of photography.

All good photographers learn to be observers of light to be light hunters so to speak.

If the light isn't right a good photographer won't even raise the camera.

So when we take an image we're taking an image of the lights falling on the subject.

And this is a really important concept to understand.

So in this image the subject is the wardrobe.

But what we're actually seeing in this image is a light reflecting off of that wardrobe.

So when we take a picture of this we're actually taking a picture of the light falling on the water

drop and reflecting back into the camera.

In this image we've got quite a bit going on.

But that place our eyes are probably drawn to the bridge is the light falling on the bridge is going

to draw I we can see that we've got a light source in the actual image you got the light on the lighthouse

and we've got some light on the waves.

But I would argue in this instance that the subject is actually the bridge because that is where the

contrast is between light and dark is what the photographer has emphasized as the main subject

in this image.

Some strawberries we can see the light falling on the subject.

We've got a light source on the left side of the image and that is sweeping across.

And it is the light that draws out the texture in the Strawberry's it's the light that creates the highlights

and it's the absence of light or the lower levels of light on the right hand side that create the shadow.

So it's like falling on the subject that creates the interest in this image.

And this is one of the things we have to learn we have to learn to see and identify and be intelligent

about the light falling on the subject.

Well not so much worried about the subject but we're more worried about the patent and type of light

that is being shown in the image

in this image we've got a little splash of light that goes across the road and that's where the photography

is trying to draw our attention to is trying to draw our attention to that little bit of light going

across the road.

It's the light falling on the road that creates interest.

Now we do have some bright trees in the background and they're also a secondary element in the image.

But really we had a photographer trying to place our eyes on that road.

Now if you're not conscious and looking for that you're just sitting watching us good.

We actually look at it in terms of analyzing the image to see where the light is we start to realize

that the photographer's intention is is to be focused on that road.

And again what we have here is we have an artificial light source at night and it's a very very clever

image by the photographer because when we look at it we can see a lot of color.

It's a lot of richness and we can see a lot of light.

But when you actually start to look at it it's the light falling on the people on the subject illuminating

the car.

It's a lie as it interacts with the objects that actually creates the image.

So now what we have is we have a really nice light on the customers faces.

And in this instance the light source is actually being included in the image which makes it such a

clever image but it's the interactions of the people around the car waiting for some food that is revealed

fruit of light falling on them.

And that's what good photographers can do.

They can see an image if image didn't have the light.

If the image was in daytime the image won't be strong.

But because not because the light is there because it's falling and touching on all subjects and illuminating

them.

And now they stand out in the image we can begin to enjoy and appreciate the image.

And it's the light falling on the subject.

What we've got is actually quite a hard lined sense of the direction of the light falling on the subject.

And then behind the subject we've got deep shadows so it creates quite a strong contrast and a lot of

interest.

So I really really like this image but again it's not a picture of a food truck.

This is a picture of the light fully on the subject.

Now this one is interesting because this is a photograph of Terraplane and the light isn't falling on

the subject but what the photographer has done is use a light in the background and he's used the absence

of light to illustrate the subject matter.

So although this isn't like falling on the subject it is the absence of light that creates the image.

And there's some light in the image is some close highlights here and that but it's the observation

of light that's made the image as the background the sky the colors the richness.

So what the photographer has seen here is light really good light.

And then he also I think the absence of light on the aircraft.

And that is what has created a stunning image.
So let's have a look at hard light a hard life so is a small light source that creates a hard shedder

that is often fros people the sun in the midday sky if it's in the sky by itself is a small light source

relative to you.

Now the sun is huge but it's actually a small light source in the sky when it comes to taking an image

and it's often those people but that small light source will create a hard shadow which is why it's

called hard light and a lot of talk shy away from hard light.

But it's one of my favorite types of light when we want to identify hard light or we have to look for

is hard shadows and it is really as simple as that.

That is how you see hard light.

So let's go into the studio and have a look at some hot lights.

So here we are in a virtual studio.

And what we want to see here is we want to see that we've got a small light source so we can see we've

got if we look at the light here we've got a very small light source.

Yeah.

So the light itself is very small in size shining on our subject.

So we just got one light source very small shining on subjects.

What does that actually look like so let's have a look.

So this is the image this is how that light in a studio setting would fall on the subject.

So what we've got we could see we've got a very bright light here.

But what we're looking for is the shadow the hardness of shadow.

You see when we see a small light source falling on the subject we're going to get a very very hard

shot.

And this image is so hard.

All we've got is a large area of shadow on this side.

So the light is falling is very directional and then it cannot get past the nose so the light travels

in a straight line hits a subject and can't get past the nose.

So that is what hard light would look like if used in a studio and you'll see the same lighting when

you're out with the sun with artificial light sources.

If it's a small light sources a hard light source is going to create dark hard shadows.

So let's have a look at some hard light examples.

So in this image we've got some paper but it's the hawgs light that creates the hard shadows around

the edge of the paper and also reveals the texture in the paper itself.

If you have a light shining directly onto this from above from where we're looking now so from our perspective

those shadows would disappear.

But because the light has come across from the side so it's coming from the top left.

We can see the hard shadows and it's that which brings out the texture and the shape of the items the

hard light creates hard shadows which creates the definition in the image and brings out the detail

in this image.

We've got the sun coming from the top right across the sun and that is how we can see the texture.

We can see the light and the shadow we can see bright light the shadows and that's what you'll often

see in a hard light situation and that's what brings out the texture which is pleasing to us if we didn't

have that hard light this image would just look very flat and uninteresting.

But the shadow that takes it in the sand is revealed because of the hard light source.

And in this case it would have been some.

Now here we have a landscape that I've taken.

And you can see here that is hard like a lot of people shy away from hard like but what want to point

out here is the texture in the baskets.

So if you can see the rope in the lobster basket you can see that texture is that there's a lot of texture

as a lot of detail.

And also in the buildings in the back if you look at the church tower for instance it really stands

out because of the high light and shadow and we could see the direction of the light.

We can see the direction of the sun and it's the same over out the image is the highlights and the hard

shadows.

They enable us to create visual interest in this image.

Now this might well have worked with soft light but because I wanted to emphasize the texture in the

lubs the Baskett hard light is much more suitable for this type of image.

So in this image we've got the cheeky StarLink you wasn't frightened of me in any way shape or form

but what hard like will do with bird photography is it will bring out the detail in the feathers.

So whenever you're taking pictures of birds you want to see the savage you want to see the detail you

want to see the texture.

And again we have a hard light source here enabling us to see these really really important details.

And this is why I say to people Don't be afraid of hard light not run away.

A lot of photographers grafter after Golden Hour is soft Goldline that's incorrect.

Yes that's a great time to take images.

But if you start to learn and understand hardline how to use and what is good for you can go out in

the midday sun and take great images and it's learning to see the hard light learning to step beyond

a very narrow view of what light is then enables us to create some really interesting images.

Other people will miss

this is a hard light portray.

Technically it's blown out on the hot technically we've lost the detail in the why.

But I like the hard shadows.

I like the almost abstract nature of this image and the reason I'm showing you is to show that portraits

ideally taken in soft light hard light will give you something completely different.

Hard light allows you to create some really really interesting portrays.

So in this image we are drawn to the lips and the chin.

There's a sense of mystery of wanting to be able to see the rest of the face but you can't because as

a photographer made the choice to show off show.

So experiment with hard light where people wouldn't even use of.

Now one of the most important things to understand is that silhouettes work best when there's a hard

light source.

And this is a seaside shop and we've got a very strong sun high in the sky and you can see it's very

high because of the shadows under the pony and the woman who's holding the pony if you look on the floor

the shadows are very close to the subject and not stretched out that means the sun is very high above

them but that has enabled us to take a really really powerful black and white image.

And this is one thing to understand if you put the sun behind your subject and it's a hard light source

that's when you start creating some really compelling and interesting silhouette shows so something

to go out and practice.

Make sure wherever your subject is there between you and the hard lightsource and you are going to start

getting some interesting silhouettes So that's a classic use of hard like not crush lighting is the

process of having the light skim across the surface.

So in this instance the light is coming across the image and it's creating the really hard shadows which

you can see in the break.

But most importantly you can see around the loch and it's because we're lighting it across the subject

that we get this really hard shut eye so when you're out and about looks the that skims the subject

there's nearly in line with the subject but slightly off and creates this really strong shadow.

So once you start learning to see hard lie I'm falling on the subject you can start to use it in your

photography and have some really interesting adventure.

And like I said I love hard light.

It just brings up things that soft light does not bring out.

So when I see hard light I get really happy.

Grab my camera and I'm out there and I encourage you to do the same.
So soft light is light that is diffused or is bounced around.

So they hit a subject from all sides.

So stuff like comes from my large lightsource.

In other words.

So let's look at the cloud in the image above.

The sun is a hard light source but the cloud in front of the sun scatters the Rays and softens that

light source and turns it into a large light source.

And the reason I'm using the sun and the cloud to illustrate these points is because when we go into

the studio we're trying to replicate this cloudy day of soft light or a bright day with Hardly.

So now we have this cloud as a large light source.

We can see what is thoughts into the shadows.

The shadows are going to soften.

So if you remember in the last image it was very hard.

But in this image the very soft shadow from the tree.

And that's because the light is wrapping around the tree and getting behind the tree almost and softening

the shadow.

Now soft light is particularly good for portraiture especially female portraiture as it removes lines

and texture and smooth skin.

Wedding photographers for instance have to work very fast.

They tend to prefer cloudy days because the light is soft and even though it's a fight it gets hard.

Light and moving the subject so much so soft light is much more forgiving.

It's much easier to work with especially when it comes to taking images of people.

So here we see an example of diffused light which was a time we used before so diffused light is a light

source that is shining through something else that softens it.

So in this instance we've got soft diffused panel of white material that the light is shining through.

And in this instance now that a fuse is larger than the subject.

And now we have a large lightsource because it is bigger than the actual subject itself.

Now we're going to get soft even wrap around the subject so that's diffuse the light that's when the

light is diffused through something else and falls on us subject.

Now reflected light is different because reflected light is light that hit something and then bounces

off of that and lots of subjects in this instance we use a reflect and we can see the reflector is larger

than the subject that the light is going to wrap around the subject it's going to soften.

And you can see what the arrows the light is bouncing in all directions and that's how we get light

going around much more with hard light sources it's just very direct and very hard and you don't get

that light bouncing around the edges because the light source is smaller than the subject.

We've got the sun bouncing off the panel reflecting onto the subject so you can see this image is where

the light is bouncing off a wall.

The sunlight bouncing off a wall and you can use that as a light source.

And this is often a technique the commercial photographers professional photographers we use who understand

how to use reflected light when they're in a hard life situation they will move someone into an area

where the sun is not directly an image but it's shining on a wall and that we use the wall as a light

source to soften the image.

So that's going to have a look at this in the virtual studio.

So here we are in the studio in the virtual studio and we can see we've got a light source that is much

larger than the subject.

So now we're going to get a lot of wrapping around on the subject.

We're going to have a soft line so let's have a look at what the image actually looks like when it's

been taken.

So now we have this soft light source.

It's a diffused light because a light is coming through some material in the studio strobe and we can

see straight away that it's a lot softer.

We can see some tonality here not as bright as a hard light example we gave earlier.

We're seeing a nice soft shadow on the nose on the cheek and on the neck.

So now what we've got is a soft light source and this is going to be much more pleasing as a show for

female subject.

Now if I was going to take an image of a male subject I would use hard light and draw out lines and

the grittiness of the male subject.

But the ladies like to have soft light soft light will take five years off of any subject.

That's what soft light will look like.

On the subject we can see if we look at it carefully.

Learn to observe the light.

We know we've got a big light source that's the biggest clue but then we can also see the softness in

the shadow and the way it gently moves from left to dark.

It is my soft blurred edge to the shadow around here.

So that's a soft light example.

So in this image it's a landscape and we've got a really soft light on the subject.

The ridges are very soft and flat.

So landscape photography hardly often brings out much more interesting detail you can also use soft

light as a way of creating interesting landscapes.

So this is a candid portrait.

So this is just the portrait we are out and about.

And there's a very soft light in the sky and you can see because there's not much shadow there's not

much hobs shadow on the face.

And this is just using natural lights.

This is just using the light in the sky.

So it just goes to show that if you learn to take images in natural light hard and soft that actually

teaches you how to do studio photography because all you're trying to do is actually replicate what

you would do outside

so this image was taken in hard like conditions.

So we moved the subject under a tree into some shadow where the light was much softer and we got this

really nice soft portray so it just goes to show that when you're out in hard like conditions by moving

your subjects and we're going to talk about this much more like Trumbo maybe you subject to a more suitable

location where the light has actually changed.

We can take interesting images and in this instance we can see how the soft light is removed texture

from skin and now we've got a nice soft porcelain effect to the skin.

And this is what little ladies like.

So here's a studio shoe and we've got some soft like soft light can help us to communicate innocence.

It can help us to communicate softness and gentleness.

And again we've got that softness that Porsena feel in the image.

I just wanted you to see it it wasn't that much difference between this show and the previous show in

terms of softness in the skin.

Here is a image with soft light.

This is a restroom and there's some light coming through a window.

Now whenever you're taking an image indoors if you've got a nice large window that the sun is shining

for you you can create really nice soft light.

But the thing the most is is when you're looking at the window and the light is coming through the sun

cannot be in the window itself because the sun is shining for you.

You've just turn that light source into a small light source.

You have to have the light coming through the window with out the sun visible.

And if you do that you have a large light source and then you get this beautiful soft light.

And here is just a candid portray in a home and you can see we've just use a soft light we've moved

the subject back a bit from the soft lights that are coming into shadow a little bit more to control

the amount of shadow on the face.

But we just use the patio the light from the patio come in to create this nice interesting image of

this young boy.

When you stop being able to see the light and seeing how a light is falling on the subject seeing soft

light hard like stopping and how to move the subject to where you want them to be.

And that is when your photography really starts to change.
So let's have a look at color temperature what color temperature is basically light has certain wavelengths

and temperatures and those temperatures change as we go down and change the appearance of the light.

So a 1000 Kelvin which is a measurement we're going to have a very hot light candle light type light.

Fifteen hundred Kelvin we're going to have tungsten light and then we're going to see 2500 Kelvin early

sunrise and we move to household both noon daylight cloudy day time shade twilight so night gets very

blue it gets very cold and it's important to be able to see the temperature of light because sex the

mood of your image.

So when we look at white balance white balance refers to what colors you are white.

So if the light shining on your whites are not fifty five hundred K they will pick up a color cast.

So to prevent that coming through we can match our Camors color temperature to the wise especially if

you're shooting in JPA which smartphones and iPhones will shoot it.

Now you can adjust your white balance in your camera to match the color temperature you're actually

using.

If that's what you're trying to achieve.

Now these cameras will shoot in something called Roll format.

So that's an image that is completely neutral in terms of white balance so you can actually adjust the

white balance later and you can adjust post-processing.

So that's why a lot of professional photographers will shoot in role because they don't have to worry

so much about what powers they can fix that later if you're shooting in Jay Pagan you want a certain

look then white balance is something you need to be aware of but to be honest today the software editing

programs even on smartphones even apps of really good work and we're wiped out.

So I don't need to worry about this but it's all part of learning to see life understanding what type

of life you have and then if you want a certain mood you want softness romance you're going to be going

for candlelight Thompson early sunrise and then if you want sort of cold and gritty you're going to

want the day time and twilight and if you want really neutral and you're going to want light noon daylight

when the sun is high in the sky and the light is actually white so be aware of color temperature to

see what color of light is out there.

But don't get bogged down with it it's not incredibly important when it comes to creative photography

but it does help to understand and enable you to set the mood.

And as you learn a lot about color temperature when you editing your images all of sudden you've got.

Yeah.

This should have been a bit warmer and it should have been a bit cooler either likes it to be like this.

I like to have this sort of tone of like this white balance.

And that's when it really start coming through.
So let's have a look at working the scene.

There are free ways that we can essentially work the scene.

One move your feet to move your subject free move your life.

These are the free elements we can have control over by breaking it down into this simple system of

feet.

Subject light.

We can control any lighting situation.

Often we can only control one of these elements.

But being able to recognize that enables us to get the finished image much faster.

So for instance I might be doing some street photography I can control the light I can't control where

the sun is or maybe I'm taking an image of my subject and they don't know that I'm taking an image.

And so I have no control over them than what I can do then is I can move my feet and that will change

the scene and allow me to control the light of where the light is falling.

So that's how it works when you're in the studio.

You control all of these elements.

The further you go away from a control situation the less control you have over each of these.

But you'll typically always at least how one of these two are.

And this is how you work the scene you move your feet you move your subject or you move the lie and

once you learn to see light this is the next step in learning to become a master photographer.

And this is one of the most exciting pause of photography learning how to work the scene. Not one thing we can always control is moving fee changing where we are in terms of the light of the

subject.

We can change our position we can change our perspective a simple way to practice this is to shoot with

a fixed focal length so that means a lens that doesn't do something like an iPhone or a smartphone or

a prime lens on a desolate camera.

It's by moving our feet.

We see things in opportunities that we might not have seen before.

When you change your perspective in the image you are changing the view perspective of how they relate

to your image.

You see you on The View for them and you take them on your journey with you.

So the way you choose to be why you choose to place your camera is the deciding factor on how the viewer

will consume your image.

They will see what you want to see.

So if you move your feet they're going to see something different.

You give them the opportunity to see something they might have never considered from that particular

angle or location.

And you can create additional interest in your images

so getting in front of the subject is probably the most understated and obvious angle is position of

conversation and it can be overlooked by photographers looking for an interesting show by engaging fully

by looking into the eye.

We get connection if we're photographing a person or an animal that is accepted in terms of portray

photography this is a standard but we can take that and we can apply that to street photography.

We can apply that any type of graphy get in front of your subject.

And this is the most challenging for us because now they can see as looking that.

But we did talk about some techniques you can use when we're talking about street photography.

Earlier in the mass the class

so you can take an image from behind your subject.

You can create a really interesting storytelling image as it often communicates movement with what is

in front of the subject often becoming the subject.

So by moving around the subject moving into a different place we get a different element of storytelling.

By moving to the side of your subject we can create an observational image as now we are interested

in the task or the activity.

The subject is involved in this is a great way to produce storytelling in an image.

By dropping below your subject by shooting upwards you can create a sense of power a sense of authority

in the subject.

You can create dynamic portrays And you'll notice in this image we haven't gone really really below

the subject which just slightly below the subject so that the subject's eyes are looking down has a

sense of power.

We've brought in the skyline behind the background and we're communicating.

He has strength and dynamism and that's one of the things we can do when we go below the subject but

we don't have to be sitting underneath looking at the subject's nostrils to create this effect.

We can create it with a very subtle movement.

And as a contrast he can see was slightly above your subject and now the chin is lifted up.

This is very flattering and portray photography when you lift a chin up because it stretches the skin

on the face and it will draw the skin much tighter and is very flattering.

And if you're in an environment where does something interesting in the background like this you can

see the streaks behind you start to create context and you can create even more drama and add more power

to the image by including these interesting elements.

But again no this only a slight elevation.

Well not shooting the top of his head it's a very slight elevation.

These are commercial images.

So this would be a job where we have to go in take an image very quickly get out because these are very

busy people and these are some of the things we can do really quickly in those situations to get really

interesting and compelling images.

So now we've got the bird's eye view it when we shoot straight down we can create a sense of scale of

how small things.

How big the world is the bird's eye view can also be used in Porth chat product photography and is pleasing

because it's not the normal view that people see.

So you give them a perspective and an experience that unfamiliar with.

So if you're scared of heights you would never see this perspective unless you took advantage of this

photographer doing this for you.

And then we can take the view this is where we look at the world and then we can see things that people

don't often see by looking straight up as children laying down and looking up at the sky is a part of

our creative playing is part of growing up.

And what child hasn't lain down on their back and looked up at the stars at night or the clouds during

the day and started to feel like they were falling off the earth.

This is why we must learn to change our position to change our perspective to look out we'll discover

things that other people miss.

So when you're out and about.

Just pause look up and see what you see.

See most photographers never look up and they miss some wonderful opportunities.

By getting up close we create a sense of intimacy.

Sometimes intrusion depending on how the subject reacts if it's a portrait for instance it is here we

can see the pleasing the tiles often resonate with us as we view those things around us.

We have a natural tendency to zoom in when we see something we like and that Peale's was into our view

as we do that for them.

For an image.

So sometimes you need to get close to

now macro photography is an extension of the way you get really close up and often involve special lenses

that can focus at a close distance.

Many lenses need at least a meeting before they can focus he can't do macro photography with every lens

but iPhones for instance have a macro function learning to see the microscopic around is learning to

really look at the tiny details can create some powerful images.

Like I said if you'd gone I thought it's a great tool to practice as it does allow you to get quite

close and focus on your subjects.

Shooting from a distance.

This is great for creating a sense of scale for creating a soap opera of a scene.

You'll often need a long focal length for this type of perspective especially if you don't want a lot

of foreground in your image.

But if you've got that type of equipment is a beautiful storytelling technique very good for landscapes

where you want to communicate scale for shooting from far away seeing what's in the distance learning

to look into the distance and see what's there is a very important skill when you're learning to move

your feet when you're learning to adjust and change your position as you're taking your images. Moving your subject is extremely important for portraiture.

This obviously seems a level of control over your subject but what you can also do is wait for your

subject to move into the right place if you do street photography and what you're essentially doing

when you do this is you're choosing what background they're going to operate in as well as how you want

them to look in the image.

One of the most basic skills a commercial takfir develops is to move the subject into a simple background.

An area where they remove all distractions whether in a studio on site.

This image was taken in an office by moving the subject in front of a plain simple wall.

We controlled the image not the other way round.

So it's important to understand this is just in an office this is an environmental portray where we've

seen a simple background and we've moved the subject in front of that background to enable us to isolate

the image and create a simple corpora portray.

This is the basis of product photography as well.

Simple backgrounds are moving the subject as in the case of this Victorian mourning dress.

So when I say morning I don't mean early in the morning I mean morning as in terms of funerals what

the stress would have been for after the partner passed away they would dress in these black dresses

for a period of time.

But we can see this is a straight on shot that we at the next image we start to create a different look

a little bit more interest.

We can see the gap through the arms the shape of the waist.

And as we move around we can see the side we can see now we accentuate in the trial of the dress just

by turning a subject slightly we start to create some really interesting images.

Now we're going to see the back of the dress we're going to start to see something that we wouldn't

normally consider and finally we have a full shot of the back and we can see the sweep of the dress

as it falls now.

So as we go for a simple exercise of just turning the subject we create a interesting compelling and

different images to what we would normally see.

So if you're practicing portraiture with a friend getting him to stand in front of you and then just

getting him to turn just a little bit and take a series of images as they turn and see how each different

angle looks.

So sometimes you want to provide context.

Sometimes you move your subject so that context is communicated in this instance.

It's clear in this image that this is London.

We wanted to communicate as a corporate portray We wanted to communicate their location that they're

in the heart of London and to do that we had to communicate to an international audience the red telephone

box and also the underground side.

So by moving our subjects into an area where there is additional information that can help communicate

something by providing context we can make the image much more communicative and help our viewers understand

what is they're looking at.

Now with Krein disparity or what's known as just position in this image moved us subjects in front of

a background is not quite right as unsuitable for the image we're pushing in the extreme.

When we talk about juxtaposition much more later on in the course we want to create that disparity between

the subject and the background and by moving our subject into that location we create something interesting.

So by cropping our backgrounds when we take our images we can create a different sense of perspective

an intimacy by bringing the subject closer we make it more intimate and vice versa we can move our subject

just by cropping in time so we can bring them closer or we can move them away we can crop up backgrounds

by zooming by moving our feet and we can create a sense that we've actually moved the subject when actually

what we've really done is moved ourselves.

Subtle movements often times photography people concentrate on really dynamic large movements.

If we create the tiniest movement we can dramatically change an image in this portray.

We just created a little bit more warm on the right a little bit more interest with a subtle to the

head a slight turn of the head and a tiny bit more emotional.

All of a sudden you've got very different images.

So when it comes to taking images of people and you controlling subject sets or movements tiny movements

and getting people to move in tiny movements is really difficult.

And the technique I often use is mirror so I'll look at them and I'll say do what I do and then I'll

move my head a tiny bit and tilted a tiny bit and they'll copy that or follow that but subtle movements

when we're moving a subject can create incredibly dynamic differences between two images.

Calling for emotional change in your subject is a powerful way to get them to move to get them to change

position in this image we're drawing of happiness they have of a newborn in the way that really changes

their faces and their body language.

Now sometimes when we're trying to move people if we ask them to express an emotion or we start talking

to them about how they feel the whole body language changes and we can create some compelling portrays

situations so that engaging them in emotion asking them how they feel to express their feeling is a

great way of getting people to move and relax into an image

crane dramatic movements.

We can bring out the best in young subjects and animals by moving the subject quickly.

We can create a real sense of action in our images.

So getting us subjects to relax in front of the camera is often achieved by letting them expend some

physical energy which in and of itself creates dynamic images.

So with children getting them to release some of their energy helps them to calm down.

But also the very act of asking for that drama creates some interesting and compelling images.

Now obviously when we're freezing actually going to one high shutter speed most of the time I'm going

to talk about that a little bit more later on.

But one of the things we have to appreciate is that changes in movement get in a subject to move is

really going to improve our images and we want to get them to move in natural ways.

We want to get them to relax and be natural and that's one of the biggest challenges.

So these techniques that we've shared with you here that are standard ways of helping people to relax

into an image and create a much more compelling image just by moving subject. So one of the things we can do is move our light.

Now this tends to happen when we move into very conscious semiprofessional photography where we're buying

lights but we can do this just by switching lights on and off.

If you're in a house and there's a number of lights you can change the mood of a portray for instance

just by trying all the different lights in the room.

So one of the things the core skills like commercial photography learn is moving the light even if you

decide that you're just going to be a fuse and stick em into moving light is a skill you need to have

an understanding of.

Now one of the things we need to understand is that light travels in a straight line is a journey that

light takes no light will travel in a straight line until it hits something that deflects it.

We need to understand this because this is a key concept to limit learning to control lie because then

it becomes about angle and diffusion.

It's like playing snooker with light you learn to get the ball onto the cushion angle it will come off

seeing what light is doing and how is entering the scene and bouncing off all the fusing is the key

to learning to see the light.

And we touched earlier on some fly and we looked at diffusion and reflection and how that changes and

spreads out and creates a soft light source and how a small light source a hard light source creates

strong shadow.

But what we want to do now is we want to go into the studio and to see and understand direction of light.

So what we're going to start with here is backlit light.

This is a light that is behind the subject.

As you can see shining on the back of us object and that's going to create some interesting Rimland.

So let's have a look at what type of image this is going to produce when we have a light source behind

the subject.

Now as we can see what we've got here is what's called Rim light is a classic rim light.

We've got a glow of light just around the edges so the direction of light is coming from behind and

then only the examples are going to be used in hard light because that helps us to see and understand

direction of light so we can see here the light is coming from behind.

You might think well that's obvious mark but we have to understand the importance of direction of light

and how that affects a subject is going to help us thoughts thinking about where the light is coming

from when we see a subject in a lighting situation that we're not in control of or why we are controlling

it and the different light affects we're going to get.

So that is a backlit subject.

So this image is behind and to the side so we can see where the light is.

Let me zoom in to see we've got a grid on there to keep it really focused in there to help the illustration

and we can see where it's coming from that is coming from behind and to the side.

And so what are you trying to anticipate before I show you what that might look like in the final image.

Just take a moment try and think what that's actually going look like what you expect to see.

That's going to have a look see if he's right.

So here's the image as you can see it shining fruit as a small amount of light touching on the edge

and on the cheek and on the hair tiny bit of RIM.

Very directional very focused when we can begin to see that as we move the light around we started to

light up the face and the skin.

Let's have a look at the next one.

So now we've moved the light to the side the direction of light coming directly from the side.

And let's see what image that produces.

Now you can see as we're coming around with sun to get a lot more light on the face now is a little

bit hot here and we could probably turn the light down a little bit for the purpose of the illustration.

This is fine and this is typically what is called split lighting but we can see we've got light coming

around.

It's crazy.

Shall I write for the middle because it's directly on the side.

And it's important to learn to see the subtle variations and sometimes not so subtle variations.

So we're out and about.

We can move a light or we could even move our selves in relation to the light.

So we come around a bit and get a different angle on the subject.

But the cool thing here is to see the change this makes.

So let's have a look at the next one.

Now it's a much stronger angle and we can see the light starting to fall on the subject's face.

Sometimes you can't see the light source but you can see it shadow on the wall and now tell you the

direction of light.

So now we're Time to get some interesting light falling on the subject.

Now we're getting into the range or we could start thinking about taking some compelling core traits.

There is a hard shut eye because we are using a hard light source but we can see now that the light

is stion to fill the face of it was moved the light around the subject.

So let's have a look at the next example.

So here we've moved behind the camera behind the photographer and it's coming directly over the shoulder

of the photographer so to speak and it's shining directly into our subjects face.

So now we can see the direction of the light.

So let's see how that looks.

So now we're seeing a very even shadow under the chin over here so we can see with the light coming

from.

And we've got the chandelier behind as well from the head.

So the direction of light directly in front is very very obvious.

Some look at the next one.

So now we've got a light and a nice shiny up into the subjects face so this is a light that comes from

underneath and shines up as we can see.

Let's see what that does as we change the direction of light.

So this rather interesting angle.

Now we've got quite a spooky effect.

This is a typical effect that she used in horror movies or anything where you want to communicate a

sense of danger and this is quite an unnatural lying pattern.

We used to seeing a light come from above.

This is why it disturbs is light from underneath doesn't make that much sense because typically light

when we see is the sun in the sky it's lights in a room they usually nearly always above us so that's

what we used to say.

So this creates a little bit of disconnect a little bit of tension so you can create some interesting

images by using a direction of light like this.

So in the final example we have a light above this object directly above and we can see it is going

to do something quite interesting.

So let's have a look what this does when we change the direction of light so that the light source is

above the subject.

So as you say the light is Lynott the hair and the nose and part of the shoulders and the chest area

is what we actually go his direction of light and it comes down.

So learning to see direction of light learning to see intelligently and understanding is a photographer

will enable us to use it and to control it by moving around a subject we can create some really interesting

creative and compelling images.
That digital darkroom is where you can learn a lot about your own photography and observation skills.

Is he the way you learn to see what you can improve in your photography.

What will happen in the beginning is when you start taking images you will take images and then you

have to correct them in light and in programs like Photoshop or what happens over a period of time.

Is that because you want to avoid fixing photographs.

You will learn to get it right in the camera.

So the digital darkroom is a great place to learn and improve as a photographer and that's where you'll

learn a lot of your core lessons.

But what we have to understand is that when we're processing we're basically pulling and stretching

and twisting the light that you captured in your camera.

And that's the essence of editing adjusting changing playing with the light that the camera recorded.

And that's what we do in the digital darkroom.

The more you get it right in camera the less time you spend in a digital darkroom.

The more time you spend in the digital darkroom the better you get compositing image and controlling

those things that are in the frame.

Now one of the things we have to understand is Roe versus J PAC.

So a JPA is a camera edited image.

You've taken the image the camera has already edited that as extracted information is being compressed.

You've lost the information and now you're going to edit some most of the time with smartphones.

You're going to just be sure in NJ and that's fine by Rauh image has not been processed and therefore

you get a much greater ability to edit all the information as missing the full image of all its information

rather than squished of information a process compressed set of information.

And that gives you much more editing freedom in terms of pulling and sharpening and brightening and

darkening.

But when it comes to roll disallows where the magic tends to happen not that where if you got this a'la

are you going to be working in j peg in the same principles apply.

I just wanted to explain this concept because you will come across it in photography once you understand

that you can still work in Jay Pegg you can still get great results but he wanted the absolute best

perfect results.

You should enroll at it that way.

So when I shoot corporate work I always shoot in RAW.

Yet when I shoot my street photog time I'm just in jail pay phone because NJ pay by X10 my Fuji x 10

that produces Jay Peggs it does have a role function but I don't use it.

And then when I get some of this lot I'll switch to roar.

So don't worry too much.

If you're shooting Jay Peak at NJ that's fine Ill learn the same lessons

so we talked about white balance earlier and that's something we need to get right right at the beginning

of editing an image.

This basically means deciding how warm or cold we want the whites in the image to be adjusted accordingly.

So in this image it's very warm on the right.

Very orange.

And on the left is very blue it's very cold.

You can see the in the water and in the sky.

So if we look in the blues we can see on the left it's cold.

If we look in the sky we can see it's warm on the right and that's the important thing to understand

when you're trying to look at an image and you're trying to figure out where the white balance is look

in the yellows and the oranges and the reds for warmth and look in the blues for cold white balance

and that's the quickest way to tell how you've actually taken the image.

And another thing we need to think about when we're taking an image is always allow a room for cropping.

Give yourself more room than you need when you're taking your image because you're going to crop it

later.

So cropping basically changes the nature of the image.

How we crop it changes how the image looks.

So whenever we take an image allow a little bit extra room always zoom out a little bit wider or step

back a little bit more so we can crop it later on.

One of the most important things that I can suggest you do when it comes to composing an image give

yourself breathing space because of the crop writes in and it's perfect you'll often find that when

you actually come to editing the image you're going to need to cross again because of something that

doesn't work in the image doesn't quite civil rights not do it right balance and you haven't left yourself

any room.

So always leave yourself room for cropping when you take an image.

We talked about exposure.

We talked about those lever's and were controlling them earlier when we took my exposure.

We're talking about the overall brightness of the scene.

So what we've done in this image the middle image is probably about the right exposure it's praising

to the eye.

We've got a little bit detail in the blacks we've got detail in the highlights and we've got a generally

pleasing image.

Now if we drop that one point five stops one and a half stops on the left we're going to see that the

image is now darker it looks too dark the shadows at the bottom a muddy around the barriers and we can't

really see the difference between the barriers and the sand.

We move into the middle one that's clear.

Now what's interesting we move into the final one and the shadows now.

There's more detail that is difference between the blacks and the graves and that help you understand

some of the things we're talking about earlier.

But now we've got one of the half stops over and look what happened to the sky is blown out.

We've got a big blob of white.

This is what I was talking about earlier and the left got a blob of dark gray in the bottom because

when half stops underexposed the middle exposure just right and then the overexposure is too bright.

Now often times we shoot in wrong.

One of the reasons people shoot most they pull that back that deterrent is still there is preserved.

Jay peg you've got to be very careful you've got to get exposure right.

But we cannot just impose and it's one of the things we're going to concentrate on when we do this thing.

Now one of the key things we're going to want to edit is the contrast in an image so hey we've got three

different images of the same subject.

The first one has very low contrast.

The second one has a balance contrast and the third one has a heavy contrast.

We're going to talk about tonal values and contrasts much more especially in the black and white sections.

Don't worry too much about it here but what we want to illustrate here this is really important part

of our editing process and we're going to do some editing a little while and show you how we might affect

some of these things these and the software we've described.

But we want to just accentuate hit a contrast is important how it can change an image.

So the first image is very low contrast.

If we look at the face the colors are all very easy and there's a balance contrast in the middle.

And now we're starting to see a little bit lightness and shade and the variation in tone across the

face.

And then we come to a very heavily contrasted image and we can see the skin tone is very bright.

The shadows are very dark.

We like that we might decide that's very dramatic and that's what we want but contrast dramatically

changes the way an image looks and this is the same image with different levels of contrast.

And you can see a huge difference as you look along.

Maybe not so much between the first and the second but by time you see the third one you can see the

effects really started to take hold.

So a contrast is important we have in the editing box that we're going to use in terms of defining tonal

range between lights and dogs.

Now the next thing we want to look at is sharpening.

You can see on the image on the left it's quite soft.

There's not much detail in the text is not much detail in the hair.

And then the middle one is a balanced image.

And then on the end on the right hand side is an over sharpened image where we've really really sharpened

the image.

And if we looked up close would start to see some sharpening artifacts and it start looking a bit clumsy.

So sharpening is something we're going to do what ever we an image are we going to be doing it to the

right level.

But it's a very important part because I extract the details or it can take the details down if we want

to soften some skin for instance and we would do that with a portrait of a lady in a portrait.

We would bring the sharpening down on the skin to create softness.

Now one of the things that's very popular is filters now allow photographers to speak out against filters

and filters and we apply filters and the same process.

I'm a fan of filters like filters you can out from the filters and filter is what we're essentially

doing is we're overlaying an image with a tone or an effect.

So we're putting something on top of our image to change the image and a little too when you use filters

always ease them off a little bit.

You put them on you think that looks great.

Well everything is drop by 50 percent when we're editing.

We always struggle to see how over powering filters are until we come back to it six weeks later or

six months later and we look at it and were horrified.

I can't believe I put that much filter on that image.

So we want to use it.

We want to use it gently selectively and tastefully too strong a filter will look too obvious.

Now I'm going to recommend right now that you look up a piece of software called Nick software.

This is your friend.

It's FREE.

It works with a light room and Photoshop as plug ins if you've got Leitrim of Photoshop it's a full

set of filters black white color loads of free stuff.

Really really powerful.

When I paid for this it cost me 500 pounds for the full set.

Google bought the company and now they give it away for free.

You can get it online for free.

Go and check out.
So what we're going to have a look at now is a really simple light room and if you're studying in photography

and you want to edit on a PC or Mac I recommend Lightroom by Adobe is probably the best quick photo

editing software out there on a PC.

We're going to show you a simple workflow we're going to show you how Lightroom already tells you the

order and the things you need to concentrate as you go down for the image.

So let's go and have a look at Lightroom.

This is not a course on advanced Leitrim editing or Photoshop.

I think this is a course on processing the.

I'm more interested in showing you the principles of editing and how to push buttons with in Lightroom

but the way they've designed the light room is phenomenal.

And as we go down that basket it teaches a very simple workflow on how to manipulate light so to import

a picture all we need to do is go to the library click on a library click on import and then we want

to go up here and we want to copy our images and that will bring up her folder structure and then we

can decide where we're going to place the image and this site then we can select where the images are

coming from.

So if we have lots of images as you can see here lots of images are going to start coming in.

We can choose from there on an SD card reader.

It would appear in this.

And now we can put the images.

This is where they come from and this site is where they go.

But the little thing is to move it to copy up here.

Now for you if you are new so you can say loads of images coming in.

We're not going to do that now.

It's just a quick tip for you if you're trying to find your way around a light room and you're just

trying to figure out how to get the images to actually appear isn't wholly obvious.

Plug your SD card reader.

Like I said pop up on that side on the input function and then select where you want it to go on this

side on that site.

So we're going to counsel that because I've already done that so I don't need to do that again.

So I'm not going to use a brilliant image here to show you the process.

I'm going to use a so-so image that I wouldn't actually spend the time editing.

Why am I there in that because there are some mistakes in this image that we can actually fix and we

can use the Leitrim process to actually take us through that.

So it's really really simple once you've imported it you select your image and then we're going to move

it to develop Type.

So now we're on develop and we're going to see this IPA on the right hand side and it's really really

simple process.

All we have to do is follow it down.

So the first thing I'm going to do with this image is I'm going to crop the image so I'm going to click

on the crop.

So I want the original crop.

Let me try.

I typically like to use a 16 by 9.

So let's see if that helps the image a little bit because we've got too much information going on.

And what I'm going to do I'm just going to turn a little bit here as well.

I want this path.

I own a little bit.

The trees and I want the subject now to be honest the face is really badly lit.

Like I said I wouldn't normally use this image.

I wouldn't accept it but going to click on.

So now we're moving a cross the top right now this is blemish removal if you want to remove anything

I could remove that red eye filters I'm not going to bother with that.

But what I want to show you is the processing the light function down here.

So what we basically got is we can set a color temperature.

We're going to pick on a white spot.

That's too bright.

Doesn't like that.

Always makes me amazed when I don't that you see that white balance on a pure white spot.

Sure have some technical reason for it so we want to find a spot where we can set the white balance

now just so you know this image was taken on my Lileks 10 days Selar image.

So this is a step up from an iPhone image a little bit of straight photography walk around the local

park just trying to find some interesting images to take.

So I'm going to I was going to say some white vans now just clicks on that gray and it's compensated

and said I think you need to be a bit warmer and I would agree with that.

I think this image needs to be a little bit warmer.

So we sell white balance and now we're going to come down we can look at our exposure what's our exposure

like did we get it right or are we going to adjust it.

Many times I think it's that bad.

Now contrast let's just take the dial and move the contrast.

We like it there we like it there.

As we increase the contrast we move is in the black as we go here.

We're losing the contrast between the whites and blacks.

It all started to look a bit flat and then we're going to see the same highlights.

The highlights if we could see in that dog down here the if I tell you the highlights up we can say

look my photography wasn't very good in terms of my exposure but the highlight so I can do is I can

bring that down into detail appears and that was pretty impressive really because this is a j peg.

It's quite robust Jay Paxo is a good quality j peg from the x 10 but you see I've been able to sort

of bring down the highlights.

Let's have a look at that now I've covered some of these issues not a major issue with this image this

guy's faces very well it looks a bit like a red blob.

So that's not really flattering for him.

And that's why we wouldn't really necessarily use the same age but it's because he's in the shadow.

If he had been a little bit further forward that have been nice below on him.

But now we're going to come to the shadows and take him down.

We can lift them up.

So we're just going to bring them up a little bit and just bring a little bit more detail back into

the background not a whites of the brightest parts in the image you want to see was affected.

Just drag the thing backwards and forwards.

Now it's not in huge amounts one way up.

I'm going to put up a little bit.

I often will take my blacks down in this image.

I probably just don't want to play too much because I lose the subject behind here.

That clarity is a bit like sharpness drop more clarity or less.

Let's move across us that's really a lot of clarity.

And that was really soft.

You can see if we had a subject face we could soften that clarity by making a selection.

And this is it's all up here for a selection in case you're wondering you can select the painting and

then you can bring things like clarity down vibrance is the middle colors if we want to just lift up

a little bit we can navigate You see we've just taken the virus up saturation is really really strong

which you can see just what is too strong saturation takes the strongest points and takes them up and

down whereas violence will take the mid colors and take them up and down is much more subtle.

Always prioritize vibrance I have saturation when you add.

But let's get bit color in there we want to pick a color.

Now what I'm going to do it will zoom in a little bit because this is bugging me.

I'm just going to take the paint tool like now I'm just going to adjust the exposure down a bit to make

a little bit brighter.

But what I really want to do once I've taken the exposure down is I want to just take the saturation

down is a bit too orange for me.

So I now take the saturation down.

I'm going to put a bit clarity in there.

A big contrast and that's how you just select event that you just paint the area you're good to go.

So we're going to click on we've got a little bit more light on his face now it doesn't look orange

so that's good.

So we're coming down.

Just going to move down through the options.

We're not going to bother with tone curve.

We're not going to bother with color at the moment.

We're going to come back to that in another section.

We're not going to to split Tony.

That's just a way of basically applying a filter and we come to detail.

So now we can operate on the sharpness so we might say we want to sharpen a little bit more.

But then if we mask the sharp edges like I said it's not an in-depth introduction into a light room

I just want to show you how it works in the process and the thought process put into this because it

really helps you to understand the editing process as you move down.

You're going to go for a natural process of editing and image so noise reduction.

We're going to just take that down a little bit.

If there's any noise in the image so we can do it.

Lens correction here was using that.

That's a lot more work on the extend.

And then we've got highlight proud to be put out a little vignette just to cry a little bit of interest.

Now that is essentially an edited image we could take and show a few more things but it's right it's

interesting.

We could just take this have a bit more a bit too bright and we just create a really simple semi interesting

image just not something I would put out there.

I do love the colors.

I love the oranges and the greens though was that you just said to set an image and that's why I recommend

Lightroom because Lightroom will teach you the process of coming down through the editing priorities

and they put it in exactly the right order so that you can adjust your images.

So if you remember just to remind us we started with a crop we saw what balance we did to an adjustment

but we did that later clouds adjustment to what pilots so we went down through exposure contrast went

to high lights shadows whites and blacks clarity vibrance and then we jumped down to sharpening noise

reduction.

And we also put a little vignette on image and that is essentially how a simple light room works.
It is a language of beauty of composition.

It's transcendent.

It transcends subjective experience.

It goes beyond human subjectivity and this flows for the whole of the universe we can see it all the

time.

And when we break the language down we can see that the blocks building blocks of composition.

And when we learn how to see those blocks when we learn how to build those blocks we can learn how to

build an image by observing the compositional laws all around us.

It's like going to the opticians but I have a machine that may add one lens to help you see clearly.

Then they keep adding other lenses until your site is Penshoppe.

We're going to go for an add those visual lenses to our understanding of photography composition.

We're going to go through those building blocks.

We're going to learn them individually.

Learn to see each of those building blocks working well.

Has a master each one and it's going to be like going through the ABC.

But once you learn the alphabet reading is easy.

And this is the core thing to understand this.

Once we learn the language of composition once we learn the basic building blocks once we learn ABC

is easy for us to start creating compelling powerful and interesting images. So one of the first things we have to consider is the subject shooting with intent.

Probably the single most important principle of photography is shooting with intent.

Why is the specific subject of your image.

What is it that you want people to see as a subject that might sound obvious but it isn't.

When you left the camera to your eye you have to be fully intentional about what your subject is in

this image.

The subject is the baby blues and the father's hand holding them.

Everything in the image is there to help the subject to be clear to the viewer.

So the subject in this instance is the boobs in the hands and it is that subject which you can then

form the story about the image from.

There is no confusion in this image.

The subject is very clear the image is very intentional.

The subject here is a little boy and how he interacts with the waves that is the central focus of the

image and it communicates to us something we might remember as a child when we went to the seaside and

we played in the waves.

So the child is a subject and the subject is communicating childhood memories to me as I take this image

and hopefully the viewer.

I am very clear about what the subject is in this image and sometimes what happens is we will look at

the image and we won't define what subject is.

We won't make the mental decision.

This is the subject in this image.

And when you take an image focusing on the subject when you compose is going to decide right from the

beginning if the image is going to be any good you can't make me any good in Photoshop the image the

composition has to be good at the beginning.

And the key to that is be very clear about what the subject is and this image is a dog it's a dog looking

up a cliff in the land of giants his dog and he is amidst all these big heavy feet.

You know it's almost like he's not safe.

And he's looking up for reassurance.

He is the subject that is why I'm taking an image of it so important to be conscious of what your subject

is when you look at a scene.

You see you often subconsciously notice something in the scene has caught your eye.

I'm not sure what it is.

You will see a scene and be attracted to it.

Something in that scene caught your eye.

This is the real secret to seeing selecting from your view what it does it caught your eye what the

subject actually is.

Your built in beauty detector was warning you that something you are looking at is beautiful but it

is picking out the subject identifying what the subject is that changes your image from a snapshot to

potentially a beautiful image.

So in this image my subject is in the foreground in the bottom left corner is the family.

Everything else just adds context to that family looking explore and looking that found something is

a shared family moment.

And then we see other people doing some act similar in the background.

But I know what my subject is when I lift that camera to my eye.

I selected them as my subject and then everything else is going to add to that or subtract from that

in the frame.

Well we'll talk about that in great depth later on in the course but the point here is I'm very clear

in my mind when I lift my Kemmer up what my subject is here we have another image and again I'm very

intentional about the subject in this image and everything is focused around me clearly identifying

and communicating my intentionality about the subject.

This was a candid shot.

This was me walking around a local park and seeing the ride approaching.

I was very aware of the pool of lie on the floor.

And as the horse walked into that pole I timed my shots the framing of the leaves seeing the framing

around the edges was also intentional.

I saw that I zoomed to the focal length allow me to retain the framing provided in the scene and I took

the shot as the horse stepped into the pool of light and you can see if you look carefully there's a

band of light just underneath and in front of the horse and you can see it reflected on the right hand

side of the image on the leaves and I waited till my subject came into that and I used the light to

communicate the intentionality of my subject.

I was very clear about what my subject was when I took that image and that means now is very clear to

someone who's consuming the image what the subject is.

Now this one's a little bit more complex.

Is it the rider.

Is it the face on the bike.

Is it the other bikes or people in the background.

Because of the complexity of the image it takes the viewer a little while to figure out what exactly

the subject is.

And this is a good example of an interesting image that cannot be a great image because the subject

is not immediately clear.

I haven't been intentional enough about the image.

It's a very difficult scene as a lot going on.

But I should have looked to a way of isolating my core subjects a lot better.

And we're going to talk about all these principles much greater depth.

But the point here is this isn't a great image because the subject my intentionality of taking the image

was although I knew that was the subject because I didn't separate from the background because I wasn't

careful how I took the image.

My subject is then not likely to communicate to other people.

Many of the images I'm going to share in just to remind you if there is no name on this image that my

image I've taken the image.

If it's anyone else's image that I've used from Splash which is a great repository of free really high

quality images I will identify the street.

Don't you have a moment you have that moment to capture.

In this instance.

It's the boy's tiredness.

I had a moment to capture that tightness just a moment while he held that.

But I'm very intentional about what my subject is I'm very clear about what it is in my own mind to

want to take the image mentally filtering everything else out.

And this is my final image.

I only have a moment is streaks Toffees candid Porsche.

I only have a moment to capture this emotional moment was my intentionality to make scene work.

I know what my subject is.

It's not the wall it's not the background it's the person.

And then it seems really obvious and I'm really overstressing it but I'm not.

You must really nail down in your mind what exactly is a subject here.

And if you look and you don't know what the subject is dropped the camera.

Pause look again because you need to be clear what the subject is because that's how great images are

produced.

And if you don't know what your subject is you'll come across in your image.

So when I do commercial work is disability and they want me to work really fast and create compelling

powerful portrays the ability to see the subject and be intentional about the subject in these high

pressure situations.

You have seconds to take this image.

You compose them a little bit but they're under pressure this time restraints.

They haven't got all day for you to sit there and get the perfect thing.

You've got one two three four five six shots and then you have to move on.

You have to get it right.

You have to be very intentional what your subject is right from the very beginning.

And that is a skill the commercial photographer has because it developed over time with commercial photography.

The subject you're always very intentional about the subject and it's a skill that you have to learn

as a photographer if you want to master photography. When you take an image once you've defined what your subject is and you've figured that out the next

key principle is communicating an environment for your subject in this corporate shot the girl on the

phone by herself does not communicate the environment.

If she was just there and there was nothing in the background you wouldn't know where the shot was.

This is just the shot of someone on the phone.

But when the whole sales team are in the background then we are all standing and are on the phone.

You begin to see the context of the subject.

It's not just a woman on the phone.

This is a woman on the phone in a busy sales office.

So once we have a subject we have to make sure the environment communicates the stage or the background

of our subject and we can use storytelling components in this image.

We have the mechanic in his jacket.

Is only when you see a diesel pump in the background you see the truck.

It's only then that the subject itself starts to have some context starts to have meaning.

Always look to place your subject in an environment that adds elements to the story that communicates

the story of your subject in a way that is perfectly clear and I thought it took best against the black

wall.

It wouldn't have meant anything but because I took it in his natural environment in his natural work

place doing what he naturally does that candidate portray becomes a compelling image of the subject.

But as the environment of making sure that what is in the background communicates a major part of story

and contribution to a story that makes the image work.

And this context allows you to communicate the story of an individual is supply's meaning in each of

these images the environment itself communicates part of the story that complements the subject.

So the first image this guy was a full truck driver and he loved his job he loved being a truck driver.

So we made sure that when we took a corporate portrait of him we communicated that we supply context

in the environment and the next shot is a little bit more interest and a little bit more of a back story.

This is a guy who founded a company that makes a really traditional beeswax.

He found the recipe in an old Victorian newspaper and he took that and he made that and he starts selling

it.

So he's an old fella.

This is the workshop.

It's not really clean this is old it's traditional It's a workshop where people get dirty when they

do their work.

And we wanted to communicate that we wanted to communicate his age in the context and say this would

have been placed on a Web site with his story and that would have supplied additional context but we

had to make sure that we communicate his environment we communicate Weyers from the final image on the

right.

This was the office manager but she was warm she was friendly she was relaxed.

That was the way the company was another company probably wouldn't have liked this image of us too messy

in the background.

But this company it was very much about tradition on all these images from one shoe.

So that portraits of the employees and you can see a consistent theme each time is we're trying to communicate

the background.

There's no airs and graces and this image is very it's very natural communicate in the background of

communicating the environment.

We add context to our subject in this image that sense of office is much more subtle.

You can make out with the phones and the tables and the edge of a computer screen you can sense this

is someone at work.

So even subtle clues subtle little references can help someone understand the context of the image and

also how the image is going to be used is a major factor as well.

An image of a corporate manager the office building in the background communiques the role of the individual

and provides context in the sense of this is a office area.

These a high rise offices.

By allowing them into the background we elevate the subject we make the subject appear important.

If it had been a plain wall it could have been anyone.

But just by a subtle use of background by such use of adding some context we can create and communicate

something about our subject

in this image.

We have a show of a sequel now we could have just taken a shot of the Sego.

But it is the birds in the background on the lake that communicate the environment and gives the subject

stage and that is that the communication adds to the story.

And in this image I could have just taken a picture of the person on stage but it's by looting the crowds.

The screen is on his right hand side.

All of these elements together that provide the context for the image and make it work.

And this one's a little bit tricky because what is actually the subject the subject is actually the

guy on the left on the stage.

And then the screen and the crowds and everything else just adds to that and it communicates and accentuates.

And if I hadn't added all of those elements the image wouldn't have been so strong.

Sometimes we completely ignore the need for context sometimes by removing a sense of environment.

We can create an abstract image we can create something that's interesting in and of itself in terms

of texture and form and then the image is exactly why I've done this is a fence a park and I just loved

the textures I just loved the grain and the interweaving and everything.

I removed all context from the background.

I literally went in and edit anything from this image.

I didn't want in there that didn't just communicate that texture like grain interest I removed it from

the image.

So sometimes you have to remove anything that doesn't supply contact and that's a major part.

We're going to explore later on in the course.
So one of the key principles to understand is the principle of leading the fruit of frame leading you

around the image controlling how our view is led fruity image and controlling what they focus on.

So let's have a look at how we can direct someone from the frame with some examples.

In this image your guy should travel to the figures on the left hand side.

There are many techniques we can use to do this.

I'm going to explore in more depth each of those as we go through the course.

But in this image we do have a strong drawing to those figures and it is never accidental images like

this and this image is led to the castle.

The use of the warm colors and the strong contrast on the castle.

Eyes are being led to that as the subject and it is the use of color and contrast in this image that's

created with the desire for the eyes to move to that subject.

In this image our eyes led to the shell in the hand by the arm diagonally pointing into the frame and

then we're held there by the concentric rings encircling and encapsulating almost the hand.

So as a lead in body and then that captured and close but the rings are now our eyes are drawn to a

high degree of contrast as well which we're discussing later on but our eyes have been led to the subject

by some simple compositional choices

in this image the light as it flows through the image leads us from the left corner.

It leads us through the frame into the horizon and then a very strong bright leading lines guide us

through the frame and the very strong in this image eyes led to the boat with the lettering.

And then after that we'll probably find our eyes a lead around the boats in the background and then

eventually back to the foreground where we can see a few seagulls.

There is a natural way our eyes will travel for a scene which we can control by how we place the elements

in the scene.

And once we begin to see that and understand that we understand how interesting and compelling images

can be made by watching where it first focuses on and where it travels to.

Asked about in this image were drawn to the figures in the foreground.

There's a high point of contrast we're always attracted to human body shape.

But then behind that we have a big swathe of white water and then behind that we have the beach behind

that we how the buildings in the background so eyes are drawn progressively for you to frame eyes led

from the from the front and then move through into the background.

We are controlling the way the viewer sees the frame because we have captured and we've been intentional

about how our eyes have gone through the frame of what we've seen when we've lifted a camera up

in these abstract images we're drawn to them in different ways in the first image we're drawn down the

bramble to the ripple in the water or in the reflection in the second will lead to the foreground by

the very softness of the background of the image.

We're using depth of field to control the view as I.

But it is the water drops on the window that we focus on that close and that mirrors the way we would

look at a window in real life water drops we might look for it we might look at the droplets on the

window.

So we're controlling the view as I by choosing what we focus on.

So controlling the eye as it moves is fundamental to the composition.

And this is going to be a massive Pava focus as we explore this in greater depth through throughout

the course leading the eye for the frame leading the eye for our composition is fundamental.

It's powerful.

And once you learn to start seeing it it becomes extremely extremely interesting and you can really

create some beautiful images.
Now one of the keys to getting people to engage in an image is evoking an emotional response from them.

So capture an emotion is a key component in images where you have a living subject capture in relationship

like in this time between father and son is a powerful way of communicating emotion.

So when you see moments of connection you have to grab that moment you have to be intentional and ready

to capture that moment of engagement.

Happiness is a compelling emotional experience to capture and communicate.

We respond to visual images with responses that resonate with us emotionally.

So in this instance capturing that moment of happiness creates a reaction Syabas a response and then

we have sadness.

Sadness is often communicated with the lips as in this image or it can be communicated through the eyes

capturing that type of emotion.

Gone has a strong response in the viewer as I read them respond and relate to the body language in the

image.

So I want to see those emotional moments want to connect with them and we want to communicate them.

Now you don't always have to have a human or animal subject in the frame to communicate an emotion.

A subject can be emotional just by recording something that we would have an emotional response to.

So they were built in such a way that we respond to our environment.

So if we record the environment in a way that places the viewer in that same environment the emotional

response that we had was something that they can mimic.

So in this simple image for me this communicates peace is a really simple image is just some ridges

with some clouds and beautiful pastel peaceful colors.

And that for me evokes an emotion of peace and that's what's important to understand if you emotionally

react to a scene and you capture it and you do it justice.

That scene will create an emotional response in the viewer anger is a powerful emotion to capture but

it can be a double edged sword because people often recoil from anger.

So we have to be careful how we use the negative emotions in our images.

Communicating wealth will often draw people.

Now you might think wealth is an emotion but security and safety is an image that can invoke that relationship

that connection can create emotional response.

We associate with it.

So next time you're out and you observe and you see something.

Consider this.

Don't you see your eyes see with your heart.

Measure it by the emotional response you have to it.

Watch your emotional response when you're taking images because you're going to see things and you're

going to respond to things and surprise yourself how you respond to them emotionally sometimes.

And when you do that capture that moment because now if that create that response we of you will probably

do the same with someone else.

So here we have a subject of poverty that's very compelling very emotional and we respond to that because

of our fear of loss fear of something going wrong where our sympathy with the child maybe we have experience

poverty in our own life and we see this in our heart breaks or maybe we just have a desire to help the

child.

You can see how such a strong emotional subject can become a compelling image.

I think that when you're taking emotional images you have to be respectful of the subject.

You know just going around taking pictures of homeless people and you know throwing a camera in their

face.

I don't think we should do that engage with them talk to them help them because sometimes you're dealing

with as you're dealing with some very serious emotional states and people and you recording that and

you are intruding a little bit into that world.

So I think sometimes it could be taking these types of images actually take the time to interact with

the people.

So safety is a strong emotional value relationship by expressing safety in relationship.

We can get some strong reactions to our images.

So this image is quite simple it's not complex but it communicates so much because it communicates that

relationship.

Now danger is another emotional subject but we will resonate with.

So next time you look at some images just really think when that camera comes up the eyes really think

about the emotional response that you are having because that is going to create interesting images.

This is a friend of mine and some cake and it was just brilliant.

She was playfully being cross when we caught the moment on camera.

That's the 11th image.

Look for those fun moments.

Look for those emotional moments captured emotion something incredible happen with you images as you

learn the habit of seeing emotion in the moment.
Now one of the concepts we need to understand is symmetry that two basic types of image that we can

create a symmetrical image and an asymmetrical image.

And this is an extremely powerful compositional toll.

When we start to use an intentionally

symmetrical image is an image that repeats itself a horizontal plane in this image.

The buildings are symmetrical on both sides of the image which creates the compelling image which lifts

you above the distracting elements in the foreground and draws your eye down the center of the frame

so that these buildings are two different buildings.

When you actually look at them they're very similar in design and it's a photographer's intent here

is to have two elements of symmetry and it's almost like you could draw a line down the middle of the

image and it could be a mirror image.

That's not completely symmetrical but it's that symmetry of those two buildings which gives the image

is power which leads the eyes down to the tall skyscraper in the background.

So very very clever image.

This one is much more obvious.

It's very clear that this is an image is focused on symmetry and the photographer has been very very

intentional about making this symmetrical image.

And this literally could be a mirror image on both sides.

Almost there is some difference you can see on the sides but for the center of the frame the symmetry

is that.

Now here's something interesting.

A human face.

The more symmetrical a human face is the more beautiful we view it to be.

If a face like symmetry we will not find it as attractive so symmetrical portrays can be very compelling

when we remember this and if our subject doesn't have symmetrical features we might want to turn the

head slightly we might want to avoid drawing attention to the asymmetrical nature of their face.

And we can create some interesting images by using symmetry by placing a subject in the center with

interesting lighting like in this image.

The image is composed symmetrically.

Here's an abstract image just again an observation of symmetry.

So this is an image I took.

I'm just walking along and I've seen this ceiling as we're walking out and about and just took an image

of the architect who designed this was very intentional about the symmetry and a lot of the time we

see symmetry in human endeavor.

Humans like to make things symmetrical and we start to see that we can take symmetrical images in horizontal

symmetry.

Many people will cite the rule of first here and say this image won't work because it's not divided.

A third or two thirds the skies and two thirds in the foreground is in the firmament.

Talk about more about the role of words like Trump.

But this is actually balance symmetrically in the sense of the horizon runs through the middle of the

frames and now we have a symmetrical image in the sense of the context of the background.

And that can create some really interesting images and later on we're going to be looking at shapes

and form in images of how images with strong shape strong symmetry can really stand out.

Someone asymmetrical image is one that lacks symmetry is as simple as that.

And this image we have two trees but I'm not symmetrical they're not reflecting white.

In this scene they don't have the same strength in the thing that a symmetrical

in this image we have placed the bud on the far right.

And that creates the asymmetry is empty symmetrical so asymmetrical images can be very compelling and

interesting.

So in this image we have both faces told so they like symmetry then the balance of the image itself

is asymmetrical.

We're not trying to put them side by side.

We're breaking up the symmetry Sometimes we need to break the symmetry.

A lot of the time actually we have the break of symmetry to make it look something more than a snapshot.

We'd have had these two standing there face on look at each of the really boring image but by breaking

up the symmetry by turning the faces but making sure the heads are not side by side we create a really

strong asymmetrical portray which creates interest in this abstract of a sea wall defens I have positioned

the bricks asymmetrically to allow the image to breathe on the right hand side of the image.

So I put my focus on the left hand side of allowed space on the right hand side.

So we look at this image and we might look at it and we might view it as asymmetrical.

Is it asymmetrical.

If you look at the lines in this image you will see that the symmetry here is a very clever image is

actually a center line that runs down in the middle.

And then the other lines that stream up a very very symmetrical.

So although we initially might think is asymmetrical.

Turns out it's a symmetrical image and that's what we have to learn to do we have to learn to see and

observe and spot symmetry and asymmetry Babbs identify in our minds so that when we do see a good opportunity

we take advantage of it and capture that image.

Now we can use symmetry and asymmetry together in this image the face of the cat is symmetrical.

But the composition of space around the camera and the use of that space is asymmetrical and that creates

a very powerful image.

So when we learn to see symmetrically and asymmetrically as a photographer it's going to take our awareness

of the visual language much higher much deeper and we will start to see better images and we will start

to take images.
Rule of thirds is one of the most basic laws in photographic composition.

This is going to help you compose your shot and frame your subject quickly.

The rule of thirds is the idea that if you place an imaginary line over your image a third of the way

in from the frame and put your subject on that line it becomes visually appealing that it provides a

balance to the image is one of the most basic and simple compositional principles but it is something

we do need to be aware of.

And if you place the rule of thirds on both axes becomes even more compelling.

Now you have created a nexus in the image a rule of thirds nexus a focal point a visual statement of

where the focus should be.

A visual statement of where you want the viewer to look.

Now this is not a requirement that you hit both of these axes and these axes can be on many different

sides of the frame.

They don't have to fall where we've put them here but especially with portrayer work if you want to

be safe if you want to take a good pleasing portray.

This is a really strong way of doing that you'll know is where we've chose to go with the lines is we've

gone through the center of the forehead with the vertical line and we've come straight through the eyes

with a horizontal line and that's really important.

Those are the places that you intersect when you use this technique.

Now obviously you can use this technique on other things not just portraits but portrays is the simplest

and easiest way to illustrate the principle.

The rule of thirds is also one of the foundational AIDS when creating an asymmetrical composition.

It creates a ratio of two to one in the image with one third of the image being focused on the subject

and two thirds on the environment giving a natural asymmetrical balance 2D image.

In fact it's so fundamental it is actually built into most camera displays and viewfinders.

So you can use it in-camera as a compositional aid and you can see in this image that there's different

nexus points at different places on the image where you can place your subject.

And that's the basic principle is you place your subject on one of those nexus points whenever you can.

If you place a rule of thirds line over the left eye particularly as we've seen here this is what creates

the illusion that the eye is following you away you go in the room says a little tipsy there.

It portrays in crowded spaces the role of first can help you get a pleasing image quickly and help you

get that asymmetrical balance quickly as well.

You'll notice in this image that I've put the focus point the next point on or fruit fly.

You'll notice in this image.

I haven't used a nexus point.

I've used a line.

So we've got a roll of first line coming down we haven't got a rule of thirds.

Nexus point swing and across the candid portray you move in quickly sometimes the background doesn't

allow you to do that but I still use rule of thirds hit to get through the eye and create that natural

balance in the image and that's the thing to understand with the role of it helps create a natural balance

a pleasing balance in the image.

Is also a powerful visual aid with street photography where you have to compose very quickly where you

don't have time to stage or to move your subject.

So in this image what we've got is we've got the skate board a moving Fruita saying very quickly.

I've seen him coming very quick shot and I very quickly composed him on that rule of thirds axis.

And again it's helping us create that asymmetrical balance to our image.

On with landscape's if you want the foreground to be dominant then the standard approach is to have

a third of the images of sky and two thirds of the ground.

So if you're out and about and you think the foreground is more important in your landscape then you

want to push the foreground up so it takes two thirds of the frame.

When you look at a scene and judge if the sky is very plain and ordinary then you're probably going

to want to accentuate what's in the foreground rather than what's in the sky.

But if you got a really dramatic beautiful sky you might want to go the other way.

So in this image for instance I've seen that the cloud bursts the Rays kiwifruit a cloud and has beautiful

lie on the secrets the cloud does draw my eyes is the light coming from the cloud.

This really made this image for me.

So I want the sky to be dominant in its image I want to use the role of first to divide my image up

and frame in such a way that the part of the image is the most powerful is shown.

If you imagine if I'd have swapped this the other way and you only had a third of that sky.

Ask yourself this question do you think that would have been as dramatic or as powerful.

No I don't think so.

That's a really good way of helping you to balance and compose a landscape.

Is the sky dramatic.

If not shifted up into the preferred.

Now one of the things we have to look at as well is the role of force and fits.

Now not many photographers talk about this now.

The rule of affairs is not the be all and end all of Krein nexus points.

We can also divide our images by using quarters and even fifth's.

So here's an example of the rule of force.

The object of interest being placed on the line of force.

This creates a lot more space in the image especially powerful if you're cropping your image to a 16

to 9 ratio which is my favorite ratio.

That's the ratio of a wide screen TV and that's the ratio of the YouTube video player for instance.

But they're using rule of force we create even more space in the image.

And here's the rule of fifths.

Again we create a sense of drama when we push it to the extremes like this.

But don't be frightened to use it in this manner.

Don't be frightened to compose beyond the rule of thirds.

I particularly like using a lot of negative space in my images and you'll know.

I I've actually broken my role here and you'll understand why later when I said earlier when you take

a landscape to push up at the sky isn't that interesting.

Well in this case the sky is an interesting yeah.

I've given it approximately four fifths of the frame.

We'll explain that when it comes to negative space.

Later on in the course we're going to find very interesting.

And then we can take it to another street.

Now we've got the rule of six.

And as you can see with a roll of six if we look at the image very little interest in the sky in this

instance all the interest is in the foreground it's on the rocks it's on the waves.

For those of you that are interested I took this image of my little Fuji X10 little street camera good

light.

This is some of the results you can get with these high end points.

Shoes nowadays that I've seen are restricted.

But you can see here I've just used the roll of six.

The rule of thirds is really powerful but allow yourself to explore allow yourself to move to the different

fractions.

The fourth the fifth the sixth create some interesting balance in the image.

Here is Paul Travis singing where we've used the rules of force to create a lot of negative space.

And I think by doing so we've created a lot of interest in the image and if you're using this image

for something else you're going to repurpose in some way you've got lots of room tags.

So we are going to be talking about negative space later on in another module but I want you to see

that sometimes when we place a line over an extreme position it might be considered extreme position

of roll of Forte for instance we can really create some interesting and engaging content when we've

got good subject matter.

So whenever we're using these rules the rule of thirds don't get too bound by them.

And the other thing to realize is when you start using all of the four fifths six a lot of the time

you will cross a line post you will define that when it comes to the dancing stage because you typically

won't have those ratios on the back of your camera to help you a little bit of practice and it'll become

instinctive and you won't need the lines that you might need an access point.

You will just know to leave a little bit extra space when you're taking your image and then crop it

into the role of third or fourth or fifth so that those lines are a fairly obvious subject or the nexus

the cross is pinpointed why you want it to be.

So have some of this but don't get too bound up thinking everything has to be governed by the rule of

thirds. So now we need to talk about leading lines leading lines drill and point me by incorporating leading

lines in our images we can lead people to the subject that we want them to view.

So in this image for instance eyes are drawn into the background of what makes this image particularly

work is it's a symmetrical composition.

When we using lead in lines to define that symmetry leading lines actually create an illusion.

When we look at this image we see in 3-D images falling into viewing as a 3-D image but it's actually

a flat 2D image but leading lines take into the frame.

They create the illusion of depth.

So in this image the light trials are taken into the image and we get a sense of foreground and background.

We get a sense of knee and fall and yet is a complete optical illusion because you're actually looking

at 2D image which can be a little bit mind bending.

So that's what leading lines can help us do that can help us to create a sense of depth in the image

leading lines can take us through the scene and give us a sense of destination.

So in this image by including the path winding Fruita seen the view his eyes naturally led along that

path and through that same architectural objects can be used to lead our attention to subjects.

So stairs are a natural source of leading light.

So in this image will lead upwards by the leading lines and there's lots of leading lines.

The section to the right of the steps where the arrow is there's also the handrail which leads up all

of these help is the focus into the frame and help her viewer focus into the fray architectural objects.

Lines can be a part.

The subject itself like in this image while the lines themselves the lines of the building lead the

eye upwards and that's the important thing to understand is lines lead the way we follow them naturally

whether they're curvy or straight lines we're going to follow them not through the eyes.

It's built into us to respond to lines and to follow them to their destination.

It's a fundamental objective law to all of us have built into us that we follow.

So it is an example of where we talk about the laws that objective laws of beauty and of symmetry and

of asymmetry we follow them subconsciously as a photographer.

We become aware of them.

We can create some really powerful compelling images and we can see in this image the eyes light up

the eyes led through the frame by the simple light.

We start at the bottom and we move to the top.

We do all of this subconsciously So if we can capture this in an image viewer will do the same.

And if we can give them a viewing experience as if they're there we can place them in the frame that

we're on to our images lead in life help us to do that.

Now lines can also be organic in this image we have a series of lines that point the eye to the right

side of the fray.

Now those lines of a cloud see front and then the stones washed up on the beach.

So when we're looking for leading lines there in nature as well we can see them and identify them and

then we can start to create some interesting compositions because now we have these lines that this

image would have been a little bit better if had been a nexus point in the image itself.

But unfortunately because of what was on the edge of the frame couldn't quite get that.

I suppose it could have moved a little bit into a better angle but I just used this image not because

it's a great image because it's not a particularly strong image you might be but it's a good example

of looking for leading lines in nature itself.

Now sunrise can also be used as leading lights in this image the Rays shining on the sea provide the

direction for your eyes to travel.

Then add to that the line of the breakers going out into the sea.

And we have two sets of leading lines drawing our eyes to a particular place on the image.

And this is where is probably going to naturally go.

So we're going to lead the Aitu.

So in this instance we've got two sets of leading lines one artificial one natural and we can see how

they impact the viewers experience by following them.

Sometimes the leading lines of a subject in this image I saw the tracks on the beach and the lines themselves

became the subject.

I really liked how they interfered with the natural order of the beach how these tire tracks moved down

into the water.

When you look at leading lines sometimes you can make the leading lines himself the subject and it's

a great exercise to practice your awareness of leading lines to go out and take some pictures of lines

just for the sake just for the abstract exercise of taking pics of lines straight wavy crossing all

different types of lines.

And I encourage you to do that and you can get some really interesting images.

I particularly really like this image because of the abstract nature of the lights.

Strong elements can also serve as leading lines.

We can crest sense of depth in this image.

The post in the foreground leading into the background creates a sense that it takes us through.

So there is a implied curve leading line as we go through.

There is not a physical line but there is an implied line that we can use in our photography round about

to create some interesting images.

Again this is not superstrong image but it's a good example of how we can use objects that mirror each

other.

Chris sense of that and to lead the view as I do to frame leading lines can also create a sense of movement.

It pushes a subject for Frue the scene.

So in this image there's not a lot of blur.

So we're not given a sense of movement but the lines themselves I see moving for they help to communicate

that he's traveling in a direction and it's really as simple as just including the line of the wall

and the line of the curb.

Now we can imply destination and movement in the image now leading lines can create a really powerful

visual elements in and of themselves in this image.

We have a boy playing with a balloon but all you can see is a balloon straight.

But it is that string itself that creates the interest and draws the eye to the child so leading lives

of very powerful basic part of composition and should be in every photographer's toolbag.

They lead the fruit of frame create a sense of depth and create a sense of additional interest in your

image.

Now think to yourself if this image didn't have the ribbon would it be as interesting. The highest point of contrast is probably the single most powerful role of composition and will often

cause an image to fail or succeed because the eye is drawn to the highest point of contrast in an image.

So if your subject is not defined by being part of the highest point of contrast often that image will

not work.

And this is fundamental to leading the effort to frame the highest point of contrast of an image is

where the biggest tonal variation between light and dark exist in the scene.

So in this image is a cloud that is where the eye first goes to.

That is a star of The View is Journey from there.

I will travel around the scene and thats because it has the brightest part against a dark part and thats

not against the darkest part but the ratio of difference is very high.

And because of that thats where we go to where we see the biggest ratio of difference between dark and

light.

That is where I will be drawn to a lack of clear contrast in the scene can create confusion for the

viewer and if theyre confused they will leave the image in this image a wanted stone troll heads as

I saw them to be the subject of the shots.

These look like trolls to me.

They look at trolls buried in the sand looking up to see.

But because of the water the highest point of contrast the eyes pulled away from them and the viewer

is torn between two competing points of contrast.

In fact they are overpowered by the point of contrast.

I don't want them to look.

So now that eyes are torn they don't in a way to GARING the frame now they'll bounce out of the image

because it's too much information.

The natural beauty detector is blaring away saying not beautiful not peaceful not beautiful.

So we have a really interesting subject because we have something else in the frame that draws our attention

away from that because the high point contrast it ruins the image.

I'm going to be talking more about what is in the frame later on in the course want a highlight the

highest point of contrast can negatively affect an image and this is why blowing out the highlights

getting the highlights to bright in an image can ruin a potentially interesting image in this shot.

The light on the leg is too high and your eyes are drawn.

Which is the wrong place to draw the eyes and because of that the image breaks down as a visual experience.

The contrast should be on the other foot.

That is why we want the subject eyes to go but the highlight on the leg creates a real distracting element.

Now the eyes are not going to where we want them to be and people will look at that image and they will

instinctively know it's not a good image but they won't know why.

Now you know why and you include in you've talked to get excited and gets powerful because all of a

sudden you start to realize that these things really affect your images and you start to control that

and your images are going to be so much better because of it.

Now the photographers is often drawn to the contrast of consciously and will sense that they can see

an image based on that in this image.

The bench and the duck provide the highest point of contrast.

But the bench wins because of its dominance in the scene.

It has a higher area of the highest contrast in the sea.

It's very dark and it's surrounded by very bright water but the duck is much smaller and it's a secondary

subject and in fact in this image it might have been stronger to actually remove the duck completely

in Photoshop.

But this is a really important concept to understand when we're looking for the highest point of contrast.

Sometimes the mass of the dark and the light will choose will dictate what is the area of the highest

point of contrast.

We can use this principle to put the eyes exactly where we want them in this image that is right on

the bird's beak drawing you into the birds gaze.

We have a very high area of contrasts.

We have to be on the black around it.

Now we could argue that the black area of the bin and the creamy area of the wall behind it is the highest

area of contrast.

But because it is very neutral our minds filter them out as an interesting and automatically go to the

styling.

It just treats the bin and the wall as a canvas as the way our mind works and rejects that in favor

of the beak and the head.

So when we look at the highest point of contrast even in animal subjects will often see something that

we can focus on and draw our attention to our viewers attention to.

Now we can use this to great effect when we capture a highlight or a catch light in the eyes of a subject.

In this image the high contrast of the skin and hair provides an area of contrast and inside of the

eyes which is an area of very high contrast and the lights in the pupils bringing our attention to the

eyes.

So we have a layered effect of the highest point of contrast the hair and the skin drawers to the face

and then when we come to the face.

I asked particularly the left eye which is larger and takes up more space in the face just because of

the angle and doesn't have the head covering it.

That's a larger area from which to draw the highest point of contrast.

So gaze is drawn to the eye.

We are drawn to the highest point of contrast.

Now therefore when we take a portray image we gonna make sure if we are capturing the eyes Eyes point

of contrast in the eyes withdrawn the viewer is naturally going to be drawn there.

We share the image with them.

Its a really good example again of the highest area of contrast is the hair and the face.

But they become part of the frame.

And then there is a choice between the two eyes but because the subjects right-I from my perspective

it is larger that becomes the place we go to.

So when we look and then we go to the right Now in this image we are using a black background and that

really centers the view is on the subject.

And again you have the eye with the catchline and that becomes the center or the image and the focus

of the image.

So this is very similar to that last image because the black around us subject by choosing a black background

makes the subject the highest point of contrast.

Again we'll ignore that as the main Cambers I will be drawn to the most dominant and interesting element

which is the II and then your probably knows.

We then drove to the lips because theres a higher contrast now around the lips I think is probably the

single most powerful compositional law that you can master when it comes to creating images.

And our view is to engage and connect with our images once we understand this candid portraiture becomes

easy because we will always make sure our subject has the highest point of contrast contained in it.

So in this instance this is a candid portray little boy running around him grabbing his picture and

I'm conscious of the fact I need to get his eyes I need to get the catch lights in his eyes so that

means I need his face face in the right direction when he's in that direction I take the picture and

hope you see how all the visual will start to work together how we start to put the rule of thirds going

on here.

We've got the catch lights the highest point of contrast.

All these things start adding up and we even have some very subtle leading lines in the background pushing

our eyes to the fray.

Here we go just the basic compositional elements and we can take a candid portrait like this where we

just snapping away in natural light and we get some really interesting and pleasing images.

Even studio shoots take advantage of this simple principle.

So in this image for example he's wearing black so we're going to put him on a white background.

We're going to center in the focus.

We're going to crate him.

That's the whole subject as the highest point of contrast.

And again then when we look at his eyes and his face was drawn to his eyes were drawn to his right-I.

From my perspective that's the area of high contrast on a stage you can see there's a little pool of

highlights under that eye and then you get the dark high.

That's the largest area so that becomes the place where your eyes naturally drawn to.

So this principle is fundamental to all types of photography.

And we'll also then start editing images to accentuate this.

So we make sure that involves the highest point of contrast in this image.

I have deliberately dark into the already dark background so that the roses don't have any competition

and that's important to understand once we understand this principle we're going to stop playing in

post-production as well.

We're going to start making sure the eye goes where we want it to go.

Later on in the course we're going to show you this image to illustrate another point.

And you're going to see the original image.

So you're going to understand this point a little bit better.

But basically we don't want anything to distract from a subject here and this is just me walking around

down the sea side seeing notshe rows with some nice light.

I can see the high contrast on it.

I take the image but it's not until I get it home.

I can edit it to the place where I want it to be.

So in this image the light is falling on the girls faces a candid wedding photography.

And that creates a high point of contrast between her hair and lovely light falling on the skin on the

cheekbones.

We must try to make sure that that is the dominant area.

So you do have some high points of contrast in the background but they become canvas points.

They become stuff you feel trapped and they fall away because the contrast in the face is so pleasing.

So that's really important to understand sometimes you have a busy scene and you have some high points

of contrast but if the subject itself.

And I'm very clear here when we talk about being clear about what the subject is her face is a subject

her looking up at her future husband.

This couple is now married.

Her face looking up.

That's the subject the light falling on the face.

That's the subject because it's so strong.

We do have some distracting elements in the background.

They tend to fall away if the distracting element in the background was larger was brighter.

It will cause a major problem in this age it appears like the bride is the subject of interest first

but the confetti itself the hearts in particular in the confetti of the subject and the viewer begins

to realize that once they get beyond the bride's face.

So we have a primary and secondary point of contrast in this image but it is a secondary in this instance

that takes the image on the bride to portray.

So yes the brides face is the high point of contrast but sometimes it can be something else in the scene

that actually adds and complements that also has a high point of contrast.

Now you'll notice that there are secondary elements.

All eyes are drawn to them afterwards.

So we don't want them to be as dominant as the primary focus.

But what's interesting here psychologically although the bride is the primary is really the confetti

and in particular the love.

I want my viewers to see that is my subject.

Once you understand this principle we can start to create some really powerful and beautiful images.

This is just a simple candid portray wedding reception.

I just saw someone that looks at me.

I just come out of shape I'm into some beautiful light in the reception area and I took the image that

technically isn't a sharp little bit blurry but it's really strong because I've understood.

Highest point of contrast and then when I've edited anything that was in the background I didn't like

was even faintly there just dark and I got rid of.

So now we have a really pleasing image I really like this image.

It's one of my favorite images and yet it's so simple.

And in this abstract and taken with not a particularly great camera I saw the contrast and immediately

knew what I was going to do with the image when it came to editing.

You can have so much fun with this with a high point of contrast practice by taking really bright against

dark shapes abstracts but get that then have some of it and learn it because this is really going to

set your photography apart from ninety nine point nine percent of photographers and work.

Now in this image we have rule of faux

bleeding lines and we also have the highest point of contrast now we can argue at a high point contrast

is actually there in the Bay Area.

But again that's going to disappear we're going to see those Canibus we're not going to filter that

in it's not distracting it just adds to the image.

But the subject himself is actually quite high in contrast.

Not like it was a bit flat.

I would have liked seen a little bit more light in the water and then I could have edited the image

so that he was a little bit darker.

But we still got a really interesting compelling image.

I just love the look of his hat and him spiraling into war.

There was a juxtaposition to that really worked for me but it was the leading lines timing it so that

the way his ankles before it took me image making sure I composed him in the right place and making

sure I could clearly define my subject by being the highest point of contrast in the fray.

Like I said now we've got the black breaker guy for the war is actually slightly higher but we do accept

that as Cambers our minds will filter that out.

It's only when we have something in the background that interferes and contradicts or doesn't add to

the image that that becomes a problem.

We're going to be looking at everything in the frame either adding or subtracting from you age in the

late election I know you can enjoy that one.

I just wanted to tie these three principles together let you see how they all work and how we can use

them to create some really simple compelling images. Color photography is a beautiful part of photography but it is often the hardest to master as color

is take for granted I very rarely looked and considered photographing me and understand how colors interact

with each other.

As a photographer is essential and once you learn to do that you will be able to produce some really

stunning color images.

This is one of my favorite images of Stamford Bridge a place in England very close to me and it is the

use of color the use of autumn colors that really makes this image powerful learning how to see this

to edit this how to draw this out is really going to help you create some beautiful photos.

Now one of the things to understand the basic things about color is color communicate.

Temperature is a really fundamental control that color gives you is how cold or how warm and images

in this example the gray sky communicates is a cold sunless day.

The sky however is not completely gray.

It is a very deep saturated blue and blue communicates coldness as we look at that white balance.

This image then becomes a color image and we respond to it in that way.

When you introduce reds and oranges and yellows and the colors that really start to convey warmth.

So in this scene you assume that the weather was actually quite warm because of the warm colors and

tones.

So by using warm colors we can get very positive responses to our images.

We can also make color the subject of the image a view of photography will often respond to color in

a photograph when the color is a subject without even realizing why essentially the color itself becomes

a subject.

And if they like not color they will respond to the image.

So in this image even though the leaves of the subject is actually to read in the image it is the real

subject of the thing.

We will respond to when we view an image in this image we see a lot of information all at once.

Normally this wouldn't be pleasing because of the eye not knowing where to go but because the colors

are so strong and interesting.

This image moves beyond the simple composition and becomes a study in color.

The photographer was seeing shapes would have been drawn to the colors in this frame.

So this image then becomes an exploration of shape and color.

But it is all in the mix color palette of colors that seem to work well together.

The muted tones the warm tones the weathered tones of these picture frames that we respond to.

So then it becomes an abstract in a sense of color even though it's very clear what the subject is.

But it is very well seen.

A photographer now in this image the muted pastel colors make this an image that the eyes are drawn

to.

Yes we have some drops on the balloon and we have some high points of contrast caused by the drops in

the balloon to draw the high.

But it is the balance of these tones in the image.

It's a mix of these colors that make the image work and when you think about it when you buy a pack

of balloons those balloons are often grouped in such a way that the colors work together.

So it's almost a naturally pleasing composition when you take those balloons and you take an image of

them together like this because someone is already pre-determined.

Some good color relationships.

So that makes this very interesting.

It's just another level because now we're seeing the result of someone else compiling these colors creating

balloons out of these colors and and some of photographing that event.

Now in this simple observation of color blocks the color becomes dominant to the eye.

And because the colors complement each other and we can explore why that is the case we are attracted

to the image.

So we've got some really nice complementary colors.

We've got some really strong shapes and these all work together to create a very interesting image that

we respond to very ordered is very structured and that people saw built in beauty detector.

When we got to talk about light on how to break and then these light down compositionally and how to

use abstract principles to compose an image in a much later model in the course.

But this is a really interesting image because of the way color has been observed.

And again notice someone else has decided to use these colors and paint these colors on this building.

And then someone else has observed that.

So there's been an artistic expression originally in painting the walls and then there's been artistic

expression in the photography seeing that and capturing and that for me gives the image even more depth.

So when color is used intelligently even boldly we can create beautiful and compelling images.

I believe it's one of the profoundest and greatest adventures in photography to learn to see color for

color sake alone as a pair of glasses in the optician's we mentioned earlier we put all these different

layers of glass into the holder until we can see the writing on the wall when we go to the optician

and when we apply all the different roles we add them as Lenz's it deepens our breath as a photographer.

But when we start to see color when we see it as a subject in and of itself in its purest form and by

learning to push and pull color in the editing process I think photography becomes really really exciting

and interesting and pleasing for a photographer a view viewer.
What we need to look at now is hue saturation and luminosity.

Now we need to get a little bit technical here because we need to understand these terms as we're going

to find them in photography but they're not that complicated when you understand what actually means.

Let's go and have a look at them.

So we're going to break all of these down we're going to go from one by one and explore them.

By the end of it I guarantee you you're not going to see color the same way as you did before.

So Hugh is the term is basically the name of the color.

So in this instance we have a red circle a green circle and a blue circle.

Red is a hue Green is a hue.

Blue is a hue these constructs these labels we place on those colors.

That's what he means is just the name of the color.

I'm going to be talking about Oggi B later on as we go for it of course

saturation refers to the density of the hue what the density of the color remember hue and color mean

the same thing.

So by changing the density of a color by increasing its saturation or by decreasing a saturation we

change the look of that hue or that color.

So in this image we start with a red and then we reduce it to 66 percent and we start to lose some of

the saturation and then we reduce that to 30 40 percent of its original saturation.

These are actually a variation of the same color always affected is not the hue we haven't changed the

hue all we've affected is the saturation.

And this is important when it comes to editing as we can increase or decrease the strength of the saturation

over time and control how that color either fits into the image or dominates the image.

So if we had a situation we had a really bright red in our image and it was taking the tension away

from our subject.

We could reduce the saturation reduce dominance in the scene.

Luminosity refers to the brightness or the darkness of the hue.

So by decreasing the middle red if we look at the middle red if we decrease that by 20 points in fact

a sharp we get a dark red and increasing the luminosity by 20 points in a program like Photoshop we

can only use orange cast to the image.

So this is another control we can use in editing.

So that's really hue saturation and luminosity hue is the color saturation is the intensity of the color

and luminosity is the brightness of the color.

A nice free controls when it comes to editing our images and playing with color allow us to pull our

image around and pull in lots of different and interesting directions.
So let's have a look at the color wheel and the various ways we can use it to create compelling color

images.

Primary colors are exceptionally powerful when it comes to photography and can be used in many ways.

In this image we have the classic red yellow blue primary system displayed in these house colors but

there are some issues when it comes to discussing primary colors which we're going to need to cover.

When it comes to choosing primary colors there are two main systems.

The art world uses why be red yellow blue as the primary colors.

And this comes from how paints mixed together.

So if you mix paints to get only colors these are the chemical colors you are going to need to create

colors.

Not a media world uses Oggi B as that primary colors red green and blue.

And this comes from image sensors capture light and how monitors display that light.

So without getting into the science of why the different we have to decide which of these two we're

going to use in this cause.

Now color theory is actually based on the wannabe model from the world.

So when it comes to composition in my opinion is actually better to use that as the base of selecting

a scene.

Editing However favors the IGB model because he uses the media based primary system of colors but seeing

creatively and using the color wheel has been used in artistic learning down for centuries will benefit

greatly as we approach photography from the creative side in this course rather than the technical.

So we're going to use why be red yellow blue.

Now some people will argue that the primary colors are red yellow green and blue that really want to

get into that.

But we have to understand why there's some confusion.

Love is just to do with the way electronic sensors emit light and how the diodes emit light and how

the sense of themselves a bit of R.G. B-cells when they take an image.

So that's why it tends to be that it's just based on the science of how to reproduce light electronically.

Like I said the world is more of how to use primary colors chemically but we're just going to use.

Why.

Because that is accepted standard in the community.

So let's have a look at primary secondary and tertiary colors on the color will help us understand some

of the terminology what each colors fit in the color wheel.

So we've got the primary we've got blue red and yellow.

And then what we consider the most dominant colors on the color wheel.

And then we have the secondary colors so these are the colors to sort of sit in between primary colors.

So we've got violet green and we've got orange and then we've got the tertiary color.

So these are the colors that sit in between our primary and the secondary.

So we have pretty violent blue green yellow green yellow orange red orange and red violet and we can

see him a simple color.

So we started to divide and prioritize colors and give them different levels of importance and when

we apply that to our photography starts to create some really really interesting results.

So primary colors can be very strong in an image when we focus on using a small primary color as the

subject or the background we can create some really compelling images.

Red is a very very strong primary color.

Probably the strongest can often be made the subject in its own right as we can see in this image here.

And as an accent color it can also be extremely powerful in this image.

The red is very strong against the cream and the light blue background elements and it provides some

really beautiful accents and it makes the image but it's a really strong observation of Primary Colors

being dominant in the same.

So that is the subject of this image the door on the windows or is the red.

And in this image the subject is actually to red because it's so dominant.

That's why your eyes are drawn to the thing about Red is that is an excellent attention getting device

and will often override the rule of the highest point of contrast because it's so strong even with a

tiny amount like Oh Miss how old this child's head is there are no other competing strong primary or

secondary colors.

It draws the eye.

And this technique was used in Steven Spielberg's movie Schindler's List where selective color selection

was used.

So the Reds were showing against a black and white background a small dash of red can create a really

interesting focal point on an image you know is probably the least use of the primary colors might be

considered as the weakest.

But it does have some interest in usages when you start to study how it is used in images.

Whenever you see a heavy use of yellow is nearly typically in nature photography yellow flowers yellow

insects are very popular and can create interesting images even yellow for me is a poor cousin of all

the colors.

Strongly align backgrounds are hard to find.

But when you do they can be very visually stimulating especially if your subject is dark and creates

natural contrast against light yellow.

So if you do see a yellow and you do have street photography and there's a nice yellow background take

advantage of it use it.

You don't see them often it's really interesting.

One of to note with yellow is it often works best when the luminosity of the yellow is quite high so

bright yellows always work better than the dark yellow is when you using that as a primary color attention

getting device.

Now we often use blue in our images and then that often a part of the sky and the sea and it's the most

common usage and it therefore lends itself to a very natural strong background color in this image is

a blue that creates a strong visual message that enables that go to really stand out.

And we will often use it as a background image but we'll do it subconsciously.

And again it's that beauty detector a blue sky is a beautiful thing that's built into us.

So as a photographer will often seek ways to use that as a natural background.

So with this image really like the image down the sea side see this young couple looking over a sunny

day on the beach look up perfectly blue beautiful backdrop.

And I probably couldn't have got a better backdrop in a studio.

So I took PMH.

And it's that blue as a simple backdrop.

This made the image work.

You can also use blue as a strong anchoring element in this image.

The blue provides an interesting point of focus that helps the daughter really stand thou and balance

a spooky window.

This obviously creates an ominous look I probably could have gone a little bit brighter on this blue

when I edit it.

I'll try to go for a spooky look.

You know it's in this image that the blue is the primary color and he's not competing with any other

primary color or even any secondary color just tertiary colors and muted the saturate colors and therefore

it creates strong visual interest in and of itself as an object of primary color.

So when you are out and about look for those instances of primary color or when you get really strong

one take the time to share it with me remember I've got like Google Plus community just email me for

the link I'll send you the link for that.

Post your images in there and we can have a chat about.

So now we need to look at complementary colors complementary colors of those which lie opposite each

other on the color wheel complementary colors can be used to create strong visual interest when used

together.

So here's an example of a red and green used together.

The primary is the red and the second color of green helps the primary red really stand out.

So when you look at this as an exercise in color observation there's just two colors here.

The Solera is and that's what makes it so powerful and so interesting.

You know it doesn't matter that the head of the insect is actually our focus.

What matters here is red itself is red this beautiful red in nature inbuilt beauty detector response

that says that's beautiful.

I guess another lovely green tone again we say that's beautiful.

And also Musayyib is a very beautiful image and it's purely based on the color because if you looked

at this image technically you would say that head is not in focus but it doesn't matter because it's

not about that.

This is about the observation of color that the photographer saw and recorded and you'll often find

complementary colors in nature.

So in this instance we see the violet flower where it's complementary color on the other side which

is yellow.

They have this really beautiful natural occurrence of complementary colors.

Blue and orange work well together the complementary colors on the color wheel and can often be seen

in Sunset shots like this one the warmth in the cold.

Complementing each other which is really interesting.

So have a look for those complementary colors.

Try to observe that as you're out and about and take images of it as an exercise in color observation

analogous colors those colors that are next to each other on the color wheel.

So in this instance we have a primary into tertiary colors grouped together.

If you're struggling remembering don't worry.

You can download color wheel apps search for color wheel on your iPhone or Android and you can actually

download color wheels that you can look at and have a view as you're out and about taking images remind

yourself of some of those different ratios in those different combinations.

But when we take an image where we have free of these colors very close on the wheel you don't see them

that often these are quite difficult images to find but when you do see them it's recognized when you

see these times very close together.

Isn't that just color schemes.

We can get some really interesting images.

So obviously what we've done here is we've used a red blue and yellow are primary colors and we've created

analogise color scheme of those in the selections but it doesn't have to be like I can be any three

colors together.

So here we have a red and now just color scheme with violence and orange is being present the very close

which are from the color wheel.

And that becomes very pleasing don't have to be exact it just has to display that range.

So it is a blue analogus color scheme.

It's got a touch of blue violet and a hint of blue green as well as the blue and those colors working

together pleasing to the eye.

So here we have a yellow analogus color scheme.

We have a touch of yellow green and yellow orange in the sea and that creates a pleasing color composition.

I do recommend when you start playing with these stand up get that color wheel out have a play with

it and start to have a look at this principle when you're looking at a magazine.

Are you looking at food packaging anywhere it is design.

You're going to start to see these elements these colors use together.

So it's really good to understand color wheels and start observing different types of color and how

they relate to each other out in the real world.
So let's have a look at working with color as a photographer.

We have to learn to work with color.

We can hide behind black and white and our lips a few people by saying that but you know I'm a photographer.

I think it's really really powerful if you choose the back side.

But even when you do that you still need to understand color fairy believe or not.

Because when we go in sort of black and white section you can see it's actually understanding of color

that enables us to create good black and white so you kind of get away from it you can hide from color.

You have to understand color photography.

What we need to do is put on our colored glasses now and start looking at some images.

Once we begin to seeing color once we begin to understand some of the basics of how color works we can

start to look for color as a subject in and of itself enough photography and especially how people have

used color.

You know there can be a journalistic quality to finding how people use color as in this scene.

Did they all paint their houses to a plan or is it just a random passen of people creating a shared

cultural identity.

Very interesting.

But start to see the colors in your composition and around you start to explore and look for color compositions

photograph color for the sake of photographing color may color itself the subject.

A splash of color.

Here's a street photography image remember we talked about primary red how strong it is.

Well hey you see what I've done here.

I've found my background and I've set myself up as a street photography image and this is the typical

basic technique of street photography you've mentioned this before.

I set up a frame image and there are lots of people walking back and forth across my field of view I'm

own in the space that walk in into my space.

So there's no issues that.

But then this young lady walks past and she's got these really nice bright red jumper.

And that just draws the eye.

So by carefully time and by composing white if that primary colors to enter the scene.

I've got these really pleasing images.

One of my favorite images enough time time it very carefully said.

The stride is why I wanted to be she is against a Daka section.

She's not covering the lamppost she's in a very specific spot and managed to just time that and get

that in the right place and that was really really really pleasing.

But essentially what I was doing here was waiting for some color into the scene.

And here is a different shot from the same location.

But this time again I'm wife's in color.

But this time it's the red and the violet and that becomes the subject of the scene especially the juxtaposition

of the old gentleman carrying a line bag.

There's a juxtaposition there.

You've got that red primary which is so strong and white it for the color and the frame and just to

remind that remember those primary colors will identify and communicate what the subject actually is.

So in this instance we've got a high point of contrast on the lady's head.

We've got a very red back and then we've got the lilac bag on the gentleman behind them.

They become the subject and they're very strong and efferent else is just a complement.

In addition to the subject in this image is the touch of Orange or should I say the dominant amount

of orange in the shop window that drew my.

Hence the title of the street photo is something in orange but what we're really taking a picture of

here again is someone else's use of color.

Someone has been autistic and never raised these colors in the shop window in this boutique.

All I have to do is see that I don't see someone interacting with that and I've got the shot.

So be aware of people's artistic arrangements or what they do.

And I think it's a great compliment to the photograph that because it's an appreciation of the time

and effort taken to create something that communicates their observation of color.

And when you do that you can begin to create some really interesting images.

Sometimes you might want to mute the colors in the sea.

So in this image the slightest bit of color is going to stand out.

So in this we've got the yellow which is quite bright but really the biggest largest dominant section

is going to be the orange leaves on the floor.

And then this helps lead Salida from the bottom right up to a subject which the old gentleman in the

autumn of his life.

Now another thing to look out for is color blocks color blocks of very pleasing to the eye especially

when we see them with very strong primary colors.

In this image which are entitled to the Matri I was reminded of the choice had to be made in the movie

The Matrix between taking the red pill and the blue pill.

So this then became about choices.

So for me this image takes on a really interesting aspect because it always is an implication here that

there's a choice that has been gray well-worn boring DOS image wouldn't work.

It's a fact that red and blue.

What makes the image strong so strong is that primary colors.

And then we've got some strong oranges and second colors in a tree above as well.

So then we've got some really strong visual elements now are probably luchadores to be a little bit

closer together but unfortunately I couldn't move them.

Compositionally that's where this image breaks down for me a little bit.

I wanted to show just a simple observation of some primary colors can make interesting images.

So sometimes it's just simplicity of color in this image.

We have four main color ranges.

We have the stone floor.

The black edge is the white lines and the orange was on because it's a really simple composition because

there's only four colors really in this it's very graphically pleasing look for really simple color

combinations and you can create some really interesting and compelling images like this and I really

like what the stock has done with this image.

It's a really good observation.

But what I really like about it was the original architects design is actually what's being photographed.

So again we're seeing that principle of seeing how someone has played a Manipulate with color.

What we have here is a very organized image one of the things we have to consider is white of color

in the seat in this image we have two complementary colors in terms of the main colors.

And that being the red and the green.

But what is also important is the white of those colors in the sea in this image the red and the Greens

take up approximately the same amount of space creating a really nice balance.

So when you look at it don't look at the scene as objects look at it as just a simple composition of

color blocks and shapes of color and that's what this is talkfest seen his react to and taken and then

we joke and we've got some really beautiful.

And again it's quite simple as not lots of colors in the sea but the colors are there a very strong

and complimentary one of the things we can use with color bands of color.

These can be used to separate a scene as in this image where the sky and the landscape a separate pond

a bright orange is.

So look for lines and bands in nature in architecture we see strong sections of color that can really

create some interesting ways to divide an image up color can be used in a completely abstract pattern.

And when editing.

Don't be afraid to push them pull colors until you get the effect that you want in this image.

The family is out of focus due to a slow speed but then the colors become much more important and we

can carry an image beyond the normal into the abstract just by simply using strong color and pulling

the color in the editing process and prominent primary color can create very strong visual interest

in this image the blue creates the visual interest in the y elements the balloon becomes the canvas

for the White.

And that's why we need to learn to see the color around as a See how is influencing the frame.

Not repeating colors in a scene this is a really interesting exercise to do as a street photography

exercise in this image the girl's hair and the Red Door very close to each other in color so I could

see the door.

I could see a lady walk in and I'm just trying to get into position quickly enough to get both in the

frame and it almost implies that that's where she's going.

The red head is going to the red door.

This is a classic technique in street photography of creating deep visual interest by creating relationships

in color between different objects.

Look for strong repeating colors in a scene not in the same object in different objects.

And that becomes very very interesting high luminosity colors in this image we have very high luminosity

colors bright colors set against a very dull distrain background.

This can create very interesting folks or Jinny's as we're drawn to these points of colored lights.

Simplicity and color choices can lead to very strong abstract images as can be seen in this simple composition.

There's not a lot to this image.

It's very basic in the amount of colors there is but it's a very interesting image to others because

it's an exercise in color observation not to want to touch or a monochrome is a monochrome is an image

that's a black and white than a tone is added so it's a single tone throughout.

It's essentially a color black and white image and it's included here for reference so that when it

comes to editing sometimes you can add a bit of color to your image and just change the feel of it a

little bit from a simple black and white into a toned image and it was very popular back in the film

days when people think film noir wasn't lots of different things you could do to edit film by adding

a tone creating a monochrome creating a different variation on the black and white was very popular.

And you can do this much stronger.

And this is a very subtle use of the technique.

So I just want you to go out and start seeing color as the subject itself and create images and observations

in color for colors sake.
So why Blackham Why what is it about black and white images that captures our attention that makes us

so enamored with them.

Why does the photographic community and in particular the art photography community hold in such high

esteem.

Why is all the fuss about when we consider the history of black and white photography black and white

was really the mainstay for much of its development.

So photography was very much a black and white experience.

Photographers saw and taught black and white photography.

That was the fashionable thing to do color photography it was always an afterthought and development

of color film.

Always try old black and white so black and white photography maintain popularity for the 19th.

For the first two thirds of the 20th century.

Now historically it has been a bias towards black and white photography as the only form of photography

and this sentiment prevailed amongst critics until a famous exhibit at the New York Museum of Modern

Art started to sway the entrenched views of art photography.

Critics say the color was acceptable in images that would be labeled as artistic.

Now think about that for a moment.

For color photography to be accepted by the community it had to be promoted as in quotes.

Modern art.

This is how ingrained the idea was that only black and white photography could be labeled as such a

color.

Was the poor cousin trying to sneak in the back door and steal some bread from the kitchen table.

So inherent in the promotion of black and white photography in the photography community is a certain

snobbery and that can still be found in some circles today.

But we can just ignore that because black and white does not define photography but it is a beautiful

medium to work in.

There is an inherent beauty to black and white photography.

Seeing tonal values in our images communicate something extra and this process of discovering tonality

only arose because of development of black and white photography.

So it's because of photography the black or white has become so popular.

Now we have black and white prints in papers not really black and white photography enabled the appreciation

of tonal value in our images.

Move out that I doubt the love for black and white would ever have developed in the artistic community

with out photography as its basis.

And if the jump had been straight to color of talk we would have missed something quite magical and

we would actually have missed the opportunity to create some beautiful images and to appreciate some

beautiful images.

So why does black and white work.

What is it about it.

We are so attracted to Blackham Why is simplicity itself.

By removing hue and saturation and just using luminosity all we're left with a black and white times

it doesn't get any simpler than that in terms of communicating an image.

This means we are viewing the image at its most fundamental level.

We are viewing it without the layer of color to distract our attention.

And here is a little secret black and white photography is easier than color photography as you don't

have to wear so many pairs of glasses.

You don't have to have such a complex compositional frame to work in.

So don't be daunted by black and white.

Play with it.

Learn how to use it.

Take your images in color and I wouldn't recommend you actually take your muse in black and white and

you'll see why later when it comes at things take them in color.

Convert them to black and white.

Play with them and you might be surprised that some of the results that you get.
Luminosity is king when it comes to creating a black and white image luminosity is the king of black

and white.

And once we understand that we can learn to see in black and white will be able to look at a scene remove

the color element in our minds eye at the very least learn to ignore it.

So does Hugh affect black and white tonality.

So when we look at color see we see different hues to those hues.

I have very similar value in terms of where they fit on the color wheel will last the black and white

if I look at this I ask you a question.

Red green and blue.

Which do you think is going to be the lightest which can be dark is which is going to be the middle

of a look.

When you convert those colors on the screen the black and white that's what they look like.

Does saturation affect black and white time.

OK so let's have a look at saturation here.

We're going to look at the saturation of these images with free variations of the same hue with different

saturation levels if we convert to black and white.

Which one's going to be light and which one is going to be dark and which one is going to be in the

middle.

So make a choice unless I will look

so saturation has no effect on black and white images.

Really really interesting.

So does luminosity affect black and white sides.

Well I'm sure that your son think well it must be because otherwise we be have to convert to black and

white.

Here we have luminosity we have a red eye darker red and even darker red.

Same hue just dark and does that affect black and white times.

Yes.

You see luminosity is king luminosity is the only element when it comes to color affects black and white

tones.

It's the brightness and the darkness of those times affect how it's going to appear as a black and white

image.

When I first discovered this I had to let it sink into my head for a while.

I still don't completely understand why scientifically if I'm honest with you I just know it works.

So luminosity is king.

So let's have a look at this.

How do you think this image will come

very easy to be far enough body the orange and this one isn't it.

The actual luminosity value is quite similar all the way across.

What about this one.

How do you think this image will cover

better than the last one.

Still not great but it's ok.

It's ok we could live with that.

What about this one.

Remember we're looking at luminol to see if we see a lot of brightness a lot of darkness.

That should tell us how well it's going to come back.

So what do you think.

I will listen to an owl.

See you draw into the color.

Stop looking at the color and look at the brightness and the darkness the luminosity.

Now I think that's a good black and white conversion.

I think it starting to work and I could put this in post and we're going to show you a little bit later

on how we do that to make this a better image.

But we're seeing some strong variations in luminosity in this because of that have an interesting image.

We have a good black and white.

Well listen look.

What do you think.

Look at the luminosity.

Look at the darkness and the lights and decide now do you think this is going to work as a black and

white

yes it does.

Now this is a flash conversion and neverwas is just a straight conversion.

I haven't polled the docks and the lights and if I did I could poll much but I could make the face brighter

the skin tones brighter and cry a lot more contrast in the image.

But I've got a good basis here for creating an interesting compelling black and white.

And oftentimes at the beginning when you're taking the image at the very beginning of capturing framing

and taking that image you won't know where it is going to be a black and white.

You can guess but then you start editing the image and then you can see if it really starts to work

as black and white.

But the more you get used to seeing luminance in your subject the seeing lights and docks and contrast

ratios the more you'll be able to identify good black and white photo opportunities.
So when it comes to seeing I'm black and white we have to see in terms of luminosity in terms of brightness

in terms of black to white and grays in between.

Now Ansel Adams and Fred Archer developed a very complex system that was necessary for film exposure

but we can look at a simpler one inspired by the way a doper Leitrim so that histogram of black or white

I'm going to use that just based on the fact that most photographers use a digital system most to use

a light room.

So let's have a look at that very simple system.

So this is a very simple zone system to help is to expose a black and white image.

We have taken the tonality from the black and white and divided into five tonal blocks we could have

argued for more.

But this is sufficient for teaching a basic design system does not Antal atoms the zonal system is much

more complex than this.

And our learn this one and then go in not because you'll find this is probably all you need.

The blacks are aware with fully black detail has been lost.

The shadows are dark but contain details still the mid grey is the middle of the image.

So that's where all the grace in the middle of the image sit and then we have the highlights of the

bright parts that retain detail and the whites where it's completely bright and no detail remains.

So if we want a good black and white image we need to make sure that the subject has enough of the zone

or range covered to create the contrast we need to make image work good black or white will capture

these tonal luminosity values in the image.

So we have shared the highlights got that range of tonality in the image and then if we've got that

on the subject.

No point to having a good range in all the image in a subject is very flat and it doesn't have much

tonal value and that's what it means when someone says D-MI just Floud lying on the subject as flight

made.

It doesn't have much tonal variation it doesn't have much range of luminosity value.

So we have Shabbas highlights what we are going to be good.

We have blacks the highlights that's going to be excellent.

And if we have chateaus to whites that's going to be excellent as well.

So when we start looking at the tonal range and the value we can start to see where good black and whites

sit.

So this image it works because there's enough highlights in the face and enough blacks in the eyes to

give enough contrast to the subject in the image.

Now notice I reiterated again the subject.

So when we look at Black's the highlights tonal range we've got in the main area sort of black and white

works

now with a landscape image because we want the whole scene of the image to be appealing.

We do the same thing but because the landscape itself is a subject we now just apply the same principle

to the whole image.

We want Bolax we want highlights throughout the frame and we want that strong tonal variation.

Now bad black and white will not have enough tonal variation in the examples above.

We have lost some important time value so we've made great.

All we have is a mid gray tunnel variation is not enough to create a compelling black and white.

And even if you have made great the highlights we've only got two of the blocks we really need free

of the blocks of tonal variation to make the image work as a black and white.

The shadows to meet great again we've only got two of the blocks not going to work that well.

So some look at some examples.

Now this image doesn't work that well because the skin on the face and the eyes have too little tonal

variation between them.

We now just have shadows and Mid.

There's not enough variation tonal variation on the subjects face to make this image work as a black

and white interest in that it works as a color image but it doesn't work as a black or white image.

Now this landscape falls apart because we don't have enough tonal range to create the contrast we need

to make the image compelling.

Now if we have more highlights in the sky we could have pulled this image because we lacked that the

image does not work with any shadows to mid grey in the image.

So it comes back to that principle again.

Whenever we use the simple zonal system we have to make sure that at least free of the tonal blocks

in the image or on the subject.
So now we have the basics out the way we understand how luminosity works and we have a simple zonal

system to fall back on to help us see a good black and white image.

Now we can look at some black and white images and we can start to unlock them.

Now remember when you're learning photography there's two parts to learning.

Number one is going out and taking your images.

Number two is looking at other people's images and seeing how they work.

And that's why we use this method because we can break an image down and see why it's working and where

it fits into the principles with teaching

So what is it about this image that makes it work as a black and white.

Well we have a good luminosity range on the hands which are the subject the background elements of Danka

which also helps us because we have some blacks and highlights.

We get that nice tone or range.

Now in this image we have a good tone or range on the face some nice highlights with shadows in the

eyes but we also have some good tonal variation in the background with the blown out background and

the dark hair.

So it works on two levels.

So this now converts to a nice pleasing black and white.

Now this image works because the basic nature of a silhouette is such that there is a tonal variation

there to make it work by default.

So usually if you do a solo act correctly it's going to have most of the tonal range in it and it's

going to work.

So I love this image.

And it's just a really simple black and white.

It's a really really simple composition really really image and silhouettes have that dramatic power

because of the high tonal range implicit in them.

Now this image has good shadows and good highlights and the balance of the image is interesting as well

with two large dark shadow areas either side of the bright part of the image and it converts into black

and white.

Well because the whole frame becomes a subject in essence even a waterfall is a subject.

But there's good tone or variation in this image.

Now this is a really strong image because of the whites and highlights dominating a large part of the

image then the unusual mural also grabs the eye.

But it is a likeness of the whites and highlights in this image that really help the shadow detail stand

out.

So very very clever image with some really good tonal variations in the image and you can see and look

at it and see the tonal variations you get some really strong highlights and you get some really strong

shadows as well.

But most of the total variation is in the mural and that's what makes it such a powerful image.

And then the building helps set that off.

You've got the leading lines of the windows leading to the meal.

Very very very clever image.

The reason this image is so strong is twofold.

The tone or value between the Hyla is sky and the edges of the building a good as undervalues between

the shadows and the edges of the glass.

So if you look at the image from right to left as you view it you've got the white then you go into

some highlights and some grays and then you've got the black so you've got a nice tonal sweep going

across the image which is pleasing to the eye.

Now one of the things to watch out for with black and white portraits and to try and find is soft directional

light in this image we have where they can't see a cloudy day above.

But because these gentlemen are standing between two buildings it starts to act like a really large

soft light box.

And it's that nice light.

It gives a nice graduation food tones on their faces and the clothes.

So when it's overcast and you're out and about that's a great time to start looking for some really

subtle nice movements of tone or value.

Especially when you get that nice tonal value on the subjects faces.

So it is a cloudy day.

Go out and do some street photography and take some black and white.

Now this was a photo shoot of a mother and daughter taken only live natural life.

So again we have that soft sky which is helping us out and that gives us a nice smooth gradation across

the skin.

But are pushing a little bit here.

I think we could have probably done with a little bit more brightness in the face a little bit more

brightness in the whole image.

But we just about get away with it because of the tonal value you've got the tonal values in the skin.

Now let me let you into a little secret here.

The scarf that the lady on the right is wearing as we look at the screen that scarf with bright fluorescent

pink and in terms of color photography it made the shoe exceptionally difficult.

Strong colors really luminous color can really really dominate the scene.

So we didn't have any choice but to turn it into a black and white.

But then the or value is quite surprising.

If you're stuck in a situation where someone isn't really bright colors doesn't mean opportunity isn't

they.

And in fact actually works here you can see that the color of the scarf on the jumper complement each

of them nice tonal range between them.

So learning to see internal values can really help rescue at times.

In the studio this is a studio portray that so you can really control the amount of tonality especially

in the skin because you have complete control over the lighting itself.

In this image we're able to shape the tonality by shaping our light which gave us the basis for a really

strong black and white portray.

Also when you learn to see tone for black and white photography it also improves your color photography

if you can learn see tonality the skin that transfers directly to color photog creed color portrait

work because when you have good tonality in the skin not works of black and white color photography.

So learning to see Tonelli is going to help you improve all aspects of your photography.

But the most important part of it all is to get out there and look for those tonal values and take those

images.

Put your black and white goggles on have some fun.
Not everything in the frame either as tracks from the subject understanding that is one of the single

most important principles in Creative Photography does everything in the frame in the image contribute

to the image.

Or is this something that strikes us when we view the image viewers are incredibly sensitive to this

and if they pick up lots of data that detracts from the main subject they will reject the image or at

best dismiss it as a media image.

One of the first things we have to consider is simplicity when controlling the frame when controlling

what in the image.

We should be striving for visual simplicity.

The simpler an image is in terms of elements relating to the subject strong.

The image will be.

We should always seek to reduce the image to its simplest statement.

So in this image we are going for a very simple silhouette and we've got family discussions going on

amongst these birds.

It's a very very simple image and we haven't included anything else in the image that might detract

from the core subject of the image.

It's like the process of copywriting.

Why use a hundred words to sell a product in an advert to tell a story when you can use free words in

photography.

Why use a hundred visual elements when free visual elements work better.

Does this image need anything else to communicate his subject.

You learn simplicity in commercial photography which is where I Lancey which is all about communicating

the subject and excluding everything else that is unnecessary to the subject from the frame.

So in this instance what we have are two glasses.

We want to communicate the glasses.

We don't want to communicate anything else whatsoever.

So when I've taken this image I've taken it so that there is that element of simplicity and you will

see commercial photographers will do it isn't nearly all of their images.

They will try and reduce the complexity in the image and boil it down to its simple subject simple component

PAOs this carries right into environmental portraiture.

Where you are telling a story about a particular individual and placing them in their working environment.

You only need as much information as communicate some message in the frame.

So in this instance we are very careful about what was in the background we selected what we wanted

in the background so we had the colorful binders.

We had the filing trays the mouse the phone the keyboard.

We were very careful about what was in the frame does it add or subtract.

And then you look behind and there's two elements I think that could have improved.

Now look at it.

There's the white board on the wall.

Now you could argue that.

Because it is an office environment but then you've got the edge of the filing cabinet behind.

And I would suggest that that might be a little bit too strong and the image subtracts a little bit.

So I would probably have a shot to remove those two elements if I could.

In this situation it was actually in the office itself so this was the best I could do in this situation

in terms of what was there.

So we controlled everything we could but the principle is sound.

Everything in the image Iver's adds or subtracts to the value of your subject in the image.

Now here it is.

I never example of a corporate shoe a little bit more of a twist in this image.

Communicating the grime and the Lohrey adds to the story.

All of these elements are now adding to the subject in the frame and not subtracting from the subject

in the frame.

They all add and help to communicate something about portray about the subject.

So we have to take distracting elements out of the image and it's better to do that when the camera

is up to our eye and then to try and do it later in Photoshop.

This image is a prime example.

We have some strong distracting elements on the show you those in a moment which are taking our eyes

off the subject which is that two young ladies will come out like that look very 80s and that made me

chuckle because I grew up in the 80s and it was like a flashback for me.

So that was a subject but too many distracting elements going on.

So let's have a look at some of these distracting elements.

Number one the building site in the background.

That's not a pleasing part.

Composition is not that strong but it would have been better not to have that in the image.

Then we've got the cops in behind the subject another distracting element poking out the subject and

then we'll get the high contrast on the rocks on the top of the wall very strong area of high contrast

and that don't really disappear into the canvas they are quite overpowering.

And then we have some really bright windows behind the subjects which are drawing I again another area

of high contrast.

And then finally we have this strong area of green this really strong color which is quite dominant

quite a large area in the frank now.

Sometimes we can use strong backgrounds to help and complex backgrounds but in this instance we just

have too much information on what could have been a great image is reduced to a snapshot what we should

have done here is used a long focal length so shut shot with a 200 millimeter camera or a prime lens

with a wide aperture.

So we had a shallow depth of field so it could have blurred those background elements or we could have

just camped out in a spot and chose a better background for where we were actually taken images.

So lots of different ways we could have got a better image than this

how do we decide if something adds or subtract from the overall image.

Let's identify the distracting elements in this right.

Now all of these little spots in the frame and we could argue there's a lot more little stones or stuff

in the foreground but just showing you this for demonstration purposes.

All of these are distracting areas of high contrast.

So what we need to do now is decide what we want to keep in the image.

What are the elements who want to keep in the image they're going to compliment and add to our subject.

Well what we've got is we've got two people had some other people over there and they complement the

subject as people on the beach.

And we've got what we'd call a triangular composition and we'll explain what lies later.

Let's just see what happens when we remove those elements.

So by removing those elements the image is really clear and sharp.

Yes it's a very quick rough idea.

I'm doing this to illustrate what we've actually done here.

But we can see straight away all of a sudden a lot of noise distracting information has been removed.

Let's look at that again remind ourselves of the transition.

So this is what it looked like.

I just saw a mental image in your mind now.

Let's look at the change and we can see there's a lot less distracting elements.

And that's what we mean by everything in the frame either adds or subtracts.

Now you can have a roof camera we can remove that post now.

Sometimes we have to consider the weight of the objects in the image if we have things in the image

too strong or distracting it can ruin the image.

So in this image we have the two girls of the subject and the brightly colored balls but we have one

woman who looks so when I scream and she looks like she's looking straight at the camera.

And there's a cone cutting into the top of the image that she was the main subject.

That would be fine.

They would work to give it a big cone in the cone in a hands.

But she isn't the subject.

So she started to overpower the image.

You'll notice the other people in the background not looking at the camera they're not so dominant they

just provide a canvas some context for the image.

But she is too strong.

And this was a straight shot of trying to grab it quick it's very difficult.

Lots of people are moving around.

She came into the shop just when I was grabbing this was street photography.

Good practice it can be a challenge sometimes because you have these visual elements and you don't see

them and it would be quite difficult to remove that in Photoshop so it'd be better to have that image

without her there maybe moving slightly to the right hand side anticipating a little bit better getting

a better image.

But it's a very strong visual element that the tracks from the shot because of its strap

Now one of the things we need to look at is guarding the edges of the frame when we're taking an image

one of the most basic compositional errors that can be made is not guarding the edges of the frame when

we look at this image now we've got four elements.

We've got the head being cropped at the top.

Now we might get away with that but we've got a tree standing in the background.

Again we might get away with that but we've got this bouquet poking in.

We're not guarding the edges.

And then we've also got the gentleman on the left outside and he's staring into the fire.

He's now encroaching on the edge of our frame.

So now we've got a problem because we haven't got to the edge of the frame.

Now if we just change the crops slightly and take out some of these elements we've included the groom's

head.

We've removed the tree.

We've removed the bouquet and we've removed the gentleman from the side of the frame.

And immediately the image improves because now we're guarding the edge of the image.

Now a lot of times you can do this in post-processing by cropping but lot of times if you can it's best

to do in camera.

Save yourself a lot of work later on but really important point really important principle to learn

to guard the edges of the frame you're going to have things coming into the frame and touching it.

Frank is that too strong visually if they overpowered a scene then they're going to detract from what's

in the fray.

And one of the important things to be aware of is that by adding visual elements that help you tell

a story you can create a deep interest in the image but everything you select and leavin has to be adding

value to the subject in the image.

In this image every element adds to the subject matter which is the autumn of life.

The old was the autumn leaves even the traffic light which helps the elderly gentleman navigate a busy

road all communicate something additional to the subject provide context of storytelling for the subject

and this image for me is a bit sad because it is the elderly gentleman walking for life walking through

the autumn of his life.

And that's what this reflects for me.

But all the elements in this image complement not now if it had been a modern ecologist poking in the

edge or something like that it wouldn't have worked.

The walls are old.

The autumn leaves.

Everything about this communicates adds to the subject itself which was the elderly gentleman.

So everything in the frame is working to support the image.

One of the things we have to do is learn to see what's in the frame.

We have to learn to switch off and to be able to see what's in the frame and not just what we see in

a built in subject filter.

What do I mean by that.

We will focus on something when we take in the picture and we will filter our brain will filter everything

out.

Other than the subject and as a photographer we have to learn to switch off.

This is why train painters often make good photographers because they used to adding that trying to

add those things I want into the frame.

They learn to see distractions and leave them out because they are classically trained.

They know they're there.

They know that if they are that image will not work.

So we focus on the subject.

We don't see all the elements that subtract from the image unless we consciously turn them off.

So the above image is what we think we see when we take an image but let's look at what was actually

in the original image.

That was the original image that was the frame.

And you can see all the disturbing elements all of that intrusions on the edge of the frame we've got

a little pink flower and that yellow spot down there everything.

They're all a distraction they detract from the frame.

You could argue that they add some context but they don't is too busy it's Drona eyes away from the

subject.

So let's look at that again.

Now what I've done in Photoshop I've gone and I've removed all those distracting elements so that I

can actually produce what I saw when I looked at that scene.

I can now put in front of you what my mind Zite and capture it and saw the image and this is such important

principle to understand is you have to learn to see beyond the subject.

Everything that's in the frame.

You have to learn to see like this and your photography will change dramatically when you do that when

you learn to assess the whole of the frame and the way photographers typically learn this is I learn

it because I spend a lot of time editing their images and over time I don't want to edit that again

and they're out on the got the camera.

I have to edit the hour afterwards and they stop and they make an assessment of Efron's in the frame

and they tried void including because of the digital dark room.

So let's look at I am Remember that's what we actually see.

So one of the things we often want to avoid is the subject looking out of the fray.

This subject is looking at which frame is leading the eye out of the frame.

We don't want to leave people out of the frame going to lead the eyes into the frame.

So is nearly always better.

Unless you're implying something out of the frame as caught the subjects I have your subject compose.

So they are looking into the frying at the camera.

If I put the bird in the left side of the frame this composition would have worked.

So when composing your image you need to decide what should be in the frame and what should not be in

the frame and where abouts in the frame that should actually be to create a balanced composition.
Isolating the subject whenever we isolate our subjects we automatically draw the eyes to it and create

interest in that subject.

Isolating the subject is such an important key to creating compelling images is such an important thing

to understand.

And again coming from a commercial photography background we always isolate a subject but we need to

bring those skills.

We need to transfer that now to normal everyday creative photography.

In this image we can see a really interesting potential image but is routine because the subject is

not isolated.

The breakers are covering homes.

So this detracts from the image and stops it being something much more powerful because the subject

is partially hidden.

And I can see this young girl pranks and acrobatics in the surf at the beach and it's a great opportunity

to capture a really interesting moment because of my position I couldn't quite get her isolated or something

in front of her.

And that stopped the image working.

Now here we have a another example of the subjects not being isolated whilst the two birds in the upper

body image isolated the birds at the bottom left corner covered by some leaves.

So they're not isolated.

And then the birds on the right.

There's not enough contrast there they're a very bright patch of water that shape the distinctiveness

has been removed.

We can't isolate them as a subject.

The background merges of Mundy's with them.

So therefore this image can never work because those two elements have been lost in the background.

The subjects have not been isolated.

Now here we have another example this is a very confusing image so let me just bring up things to help

you to see the subjects here.

You've got a piece of bread and then you've got free seagulls in the foreground and one in the background

and one to the side.

And what you've got here is too many subjects in the show overlapping each other subject.

Isolation is completely lost.

The viewer does not know where to look.

We haven't isolated the subject HATSELL.

And then this is a classic era.

And this is a tree sticking out of the head.

Look I want to show you this because I want to show you that I still might be there.

This is one of the most basic compositional errors when you take a portrait don't have a tree sticking

out the top of someone's head.

I select the subject if I were to use a slightly wider aperture or change my angle slightly we wouldn't

have had this problem.

It was easily avoidable but I just missed it.

In this instance here's a simple St image but it's got a couple of problems.

Let's have a look at the we've got the woman behind us subjects so she's not isolated.

You got this one sticking out of a shoulder.

That's not good.

And you got the dog and you got this sticking out of the back of the dog.

So now the subject because it lacks isolation doesn't work.

And this is the main reason why images won't work when the subject lacks isolation.

And here's another classic example that dogs noses very dog against a very dog background has no tunnel

no separation.

So that means it just disappears into the background and that means there's no interest not because

the subject himself has blended into the background.

If I had a little bit better angle a little bit better a composition on this I think over the lights

the the lead and the colors in the lead and the booze and the dog and that would have really worked

for me but I needed a light background behind that nose to make it work.

So I thought dark objects a white background provides great separation.

So this is a typical product shot a commercial product shot white background really good separation.

With a light subject a dark background works better and helps us to separate the subject from the background.

This is a candid portrait.

A simple background help you to isolate your subject.

The less distractions in the background the easier isolation is.

So even in this candid snapshot quick snapshot you're going to get a strong subject isolation because

of that color on all the ears is a candle behind the subject.

And then a nice narrow depth of field and all of a sudden we've removed the distracting elements in

the background and now we have a nice color of the even the busiest backgrounds we can tone them down

by using a shallow depth of field and a nice Bocca as we've got in this image even that has some strong

elements and there's some bright windows to actually add to this because this is cool.

We want to shut them in front of office buildings so we want to communicate that.

If we didn't have a shallow depth of field where just the subject sort of focus and the background is

blurred then this image wouldn't have been pulled off it wouldn't have worked.

And sometimes the background can be used to isolate the subject while still retaining background information

so you don't have to kill it.

So it's just a vague blur.

You can just take the focus off and just bring your subject forward.

And this is the way our eyes naturally work when we focus.

This is why this is pleasing to us when we do this in an image.

Now you'll notice that although this looks like a very casual composition a piece of beeswax in the

front is separate but also note is that pure beeswax items in the back above separate from each other.

Each of those is its own subject and we isolate them in the image when we've composed and arranged the

shot.

We can use lie as a separation device to isolate the subject.

So when this horse and rider walk into the patch of light which you can see on the ground the subject

now becomes isolate against a dark background.

It's a falling on the subject.

Help us to isolate that against the background.

So light is a very good separation device silhouettes are a natural way to separate the subject but

you do need to create a high point of contrast so you can get subject isolation to work.

And then this image but two fingers on the left only just pull it off the side to lose the total value

between them and the background.

You just make it out say just about works or just about get away of it but it's pretty close.

Now RIM light is a great separation device in this image we've used the rim light around us subject

to separate the subjects from the background so this is just a candid street photography image.

We did not have that red light around the subject and around the dog it wouldn't have been able to isolate

them or separate them from the background the tonal variations too close because we have the sun shining

towards us and the subject was between us and the sun.

We get this really nice strong ramp that helps as I slide the subject from the background not the left

foot is hidden behind a hill we could say that we've lost it there but we've actually communicate enough

of what's going on here to continue to communicate the subject.

So although we've lost the left and I prefer not to do that I still think the subject works and we get

away with that.

But we know why we get away of it.

We understand the balance of the image.

Now in this image we have a glass item on a white background.

That is the most difficult type of object to photograph.

So as a commercial photographer this is a challenge for me.

I have to light the subject on a white background.

How do you separate that from the white background.

Well what we do is we bring in some black cards aside which we then remove in Photoshop and they provide

a black rim around the subject actually lighting this from behind so the light shining straight towards

me.

In terms of the photographer but those black edges are going to bring in a Black Rim.

Now we've isolated the subject against the background.

So remember whenever you have a subject the more you can isolate that subject or separate it from distracting

elements in the background the stronger the subject will be in your images.

And that's the difference between a good image and a snapshot.

In most instances.
None negative space is a really important tool to learn to use your photographic composition is a tool

we can use to create balance in an image or to give the subject a completely different look.

Now Japanese are heavily influenced the European art movement in the late 19th century.

The Japanese use negative space in a very powerful way and that has come down into photography and other

art form especially print design and much of modern graphic design.

This set of sliding doors dates to the early 17th century and we can see the heavy use of negative space

to offset the positive space even in this very early example.

It was this heavy period of importing all things Oriental in the late 19th century to a burgeoning middle

class that sped this development along in Europe and the United States so heavily influenced graphic

design and eventually photography.

So what exactly is positive space and negative space.

In this image the orange circle shows us where the positive space is the positive space is where the

frame is filled with your subject matter.

It is positive to the eye somewhere to look at negative space is indicated by the blue circle.

This is a space where you don't want me to go the negative area is essentially negative space

lack of negative space can make an image too intense while its image has a charm.

The lack of negative space doesn't give the subject any room to breathe.

The subject is too dominant in the frame now but maybe step back a little bit or allow a little bit

more negative space or even a much better balanced image.

Now we use negative space to communicate white in the scene by using negative space.

We can control the weight of the subject in the scene.

In neverwas we control the dominance of our subject to the eye of the viewer by assigning the amount

of positive and negative space we can create very different images.

Negative Space can be anything of a simple form as a background and to really get a sense of negative

space it has to be heavier in the frame or at least equal in proportion to the positive space for it

to work.

So in this image the negative space is on the right hand side it's the brick wall.

Then we have the subject on the left and the equal.

We draw a line down the middle of the square composition.

We're going to see that we can divide the image in two.

So when we use negative space we want to make sure at least half of the image is negative space if not

more we can use negative space to create a strong sense of scale.

So with these geese flying in formation is the negative space that gives us a sense of the distance

the height they were flying.

We can use negative space to create a strong graphical style so it almost starts to look like a simple

screen print or a graphical image.

We can use negative space to draw attention to multiple subjects not just one a coalesced the gossip's

we've got Freebirds gaspin talking about the poll bird on the end and that's a negative space around

that a simplicity that provides the balance for the image and makes it work.

I'm heavily influenced by Japanese.

I was a antique dealer for over 10 years and specialized in antique Japanese and Chinese porcelain.

I loved Japanese influences a lot of my photography.

This is a very Japanese style photograph and it works because of the heavy use of negative space half

the frame is given to negative space.

Now we can use negative space is not fully negative as long as the background does not overpower the

subject.

In this one I think it's getting a little bit too close with the face looking at the camera.

I think that's a little bit too distracting.

But we've blurred it.

So in terms of a nice family snapshot we've gotten away with it.

But when we use the principle of negative space typically we'll use that to describe a plain blank background

or a simple background.

But we can use this as well.

We allow our backgrounds to be a little bit more complex than a does in our composition.

We can also use more than one area of positive space in this image we have an order of importance.

This is the subject but we also have a secondary subject and then the background the whole of the background

is then that as negative space where we don't want the light to go to that's not completely blank.

It has some information in it.

And the more information in the background the more it starts moving towards a state of a positive space.

What we want people to look at in this image I think it just about catches it just good enough that's

a hint that the background is but is not too strong and that overcomes two subjects which are operating

in positive space.

So when you think in a negative space the strictest interpretation is a blank background.

Stop allowing yourself to use slightly more complex backgrounds but you have to decide when it becomes

positive.

Space is no longer going to work in terms of creating an image with strong negative space.
Not framing your subject is an important concept to grasp by providing a frame to image in your image.

You push the view as to where you wanted to go in this last We'll look at the different ways you can

frame your subject

in this abstract.

We've used the framing to draw the eyes of the family the little girl trying to catch up from behind

the frame just as a little bit of drama using natural frames can create really interesting images.

So what I've done here is I've literally just looked through the trees in a nice patch of light a wife

must subject to move in.

The logo is slightly behind but it just adds to it.

She's cropped by the tree a little bit.

It just adds to it.

I'm trying to catch you at white for me.

That's what really charmed me about the image

artificial framing is something else we can take advantage of Wasow use the Windows might be considered

a little too obvious and there to be used.

I really like this composition

when framing it doesn't need to be a smooth subject a large subject can be framed as well.

When you do that you provide context for the viewer.

The framing supplies meaning to the image as it communicates something about the environment.

The subject isn't so in this instance we've got a subject is quite lots of nice silhouette and you've

got this old broken prism maybe or something about you sitting on them looking for.

But there's been a good use of negative space around the subject and the framing really work just to

communicate a really interesting scene.

Now framing can communicate a sense of secrecy of not being seen of being hidden and it also doesn't

mean you have to frame something completely to the edge.

In this image is the branch which cuts above the hair and just above its head which helps frame the

image and you've got the leaves around helping to frame the image.

But the important thing is we've got the positive space of the Haret and there's some negative space

around the hair.

And then we've got some framing been implied by the foliage in the branches around the heron.

Now this image should be a little bit better.

I would have preferred the large branch not to be cutting for the heron's leg.

But sometimes when you're out and about you can't control.

I couldn't ask the heroine to pose for me or change position.

I had to take the best image I had from the opportunity I had and it's very rare to get this close to

a heron because they're quite shy birds blurring your framing can also create interesting images by

allowing the foliage in the foreground to go out of focus in the shop.

We have matched the image to the way we actually see when we view something in real life for an opening

as in the image above.

So we're looking through the foliage.

If we were looking in real life we would automatic blur out the foliage in the foreground and focus

on the bird in the center of the frame and that's what framing should do.

It should help us recreate what we see in real life now when we think of framing a subject we can also

use people or items for this to really work.

You often have to take advantage of blurring the subjects around the edges.

But what we've got here is we've got our candid portray in the center and then we've got three different

people around the edges and each of those people are just providing a little bit of context.

Remember we talked about earlier about guarding the edges of the frame.

These elements are not dominating the subject so they don't distract the lay on the right was looking

at the camera.

That would be extremely distracting but it just provides some context that provides a frame for us subject.

And this is a great way to practice go out and some straight talk we take some portraits of people where

you're just isolating the subject.

And there's lots of people around you get some really interesting images.

Now vignettes which we often add in post-production they had just a natural and subtle variation on

framing by using a vignette to darken the edges of a scene.

We create a higher point of contrast in the center.

So apply vignette in prose is often a great way to create a very subtle frame in the image when it doesn't

naturally have that.

And the idea of vignetting comes from all the lenses that used to have a lot of darkness even mobile

and some of them the cheap lenses will have heavy vignetting.

The talkfest noticed and started using that in their photography and as lenses got better the vignettes

in decrease.

But what photographers would then do is add it back in Lightroom or Photoshop so it's really interesting.

And a vignette doesn't have to be black in color but in this instance it's actually light is very subtle.

We have a white vignette that surrounds the very simple pastorally background so we can use a vignette

as a frame in many different ways different colors like dark have a play try different things.

One of the things I understand is when you're framing an image it doesn't have to be on all four sides

of the image.

So in this image for instance we've got some foliage on the right and the foliage on the left and they

provide a frame or a sense of frame so don't always think you've got a frame on every side.

You can see an opportunity to shoot through something and the framing elements are not too strong a

distracting take advantage of it.

Now let us not quite framing is essentially is framing this is foreground subject background.

Now this technique is often used in traditional landscape photography and is essentially horizontal

framing exercise so we've got the foreground here signified by the green lösen with nine got the subject

which is signified by the orange blossom here.

Now we've got the background which signified by the red Lawsons.

Now what we're really doing is we're framing up subjects that we've got subject which is the road see

the high point of contrast in the image got that there.

But when we have a full ground and a background we're essentially adding a frame in the two dimensional

form.

We're providing a frame on the top and the bottom of the image to help draw attention to what's in the

center.

So when you start to treat landscape photography as an exercise in framing you start to take some really

interesting and compelling landscapes.

Now one of the things you can do is actually make the frame itself the subject sometimes a frame can

be used as a most interesting part of the image and then it becomes the subject itself.

So in this instance it's the willow tree is in focus in the foreground and it's part of the framing

that leads us to the four characters in the background but it actually becomes a subject because of

a nice light shining through and the fact we focused on it.

So when we take an image always look for opportunities natural framing opportunities to frame the image

so to guide the view from the edges of the frame into the central frame where your subject is and have

some real fun with it.

